---
title: "§ 3775. Settlement of claims"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3775"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3775"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1415](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1415), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 486](/us/stat/93/486); [Pub. L. 99–209, § 4](/us/pl/99/209/s4), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1717](/us/stat/99/1717); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. C, title XXXV, § 3529(5)](/us/pl/104/106/dC/tXXXV/s3529/5), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 642](/us/stat/110/642).)"
---
# § 3775. Settlement of claims

##### § 3775. Settlement of claims

The Commission, by mutual agreement, compromise, or otherwise, may adjust and determine the amounts of the respective awards of damages pursuant to this subpart. Such amounts may be paid only out of money allotted for the maintenance and operation of the Panama Canal. Acceptance by a claimant of the amount awarded to him shall be deemed to be in full settlement of such claim against the Government of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1415](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1415), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 486](/us/stat/93/486); [Pub. L. 99–209, § 4](/us/pl/99/209/s4), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1717](/us/stat/99/1717); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. C, title XXXV, § 3529(5)](/us/pl/104/106/dC/tXXXV/s3529/5), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 642](/us/stat/110/642).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) struck out “appropriated or” after “out of money” in second sentence.

1985—[Pub. L. 99–209](/us/pl/99/209) struck out the subsec. (a) designation, substituted “The Commission, by” for “Subject to subsection (b) of this section, the Commission, by” and “Such amounts may be paid only out of money appropriated or allotted for the maintenance and operation of the Panama Canal” for “Such amounts shall be payable promptly out of any moneys appropriated or allotted for the maintenance and operation of the Panama Canal”, and struck out subsec. (b) which provided that the Commission could not adjust and pay any claim for damages for injuries arising by reason of the presence of the vessel in the Panama Canal or adjacent waters outside the locks where the amount of the claim exceeded $120,000 but had to submit the claim to the Congress in a special report containing the material facts and the recommendation of the Commission thereon.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–209](/us/pl/99/209) applicable to any claim arising on or after Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 7(a) of Pub. L. 99–209](/us/pl/99/209/s7/a), set out as a note under [section 3771 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3771).
