---
title: "§ 4852. Assistant Secretaries of Commerce"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4852"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4852"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1782](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1782), as added [Pub. L. 116–6, div. H, title II, § 205(b)](/us/pl/116/6/dH/tII/s205/b), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 476](/us/stat/133/476).)"
---
# § 4852. Assistant Secretaries of Commerce

##### § 4852. Assistant Secretaries of Commerce

(a) In general The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, two Assistant Secretaries of Commerce to assist the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security in carrying out the functions described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of [section 4851(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4851/a).

(b) Continuation in office of one Assistant Secretary An individual appointed as an Assistant Secretary of Commerce under section 15(a) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 11 See References in Text note below. (as continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.)) and serving in that position on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act may serve in one of the Assistant Secretary positions established under subsection (a) on and after that date without the need for renomination or reappointment.

*([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1782](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1782), as added [Pub. L. 116–6, div. H, title II, § 205(b)](/us/pl/116/6/dH/tII/s205/b), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 476](/us/stat/133/476).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 15(a) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, referred to subsec. (b), was classified to [section 4617(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4617/a) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1766(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1766/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/132/2232).

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.), referred to in subsec. (b), is title II of [Pub. L. 95–223](/us/pl/95/223), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/91/1626), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1701) and Tables.

The date of the enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), which was approved Aug. 13, 2018.
