---
title: "§ 5535. Extra pay for details prohibited"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5535"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5535"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 484](/us/stat/80/484).)"
---
# § 5535. Extra pay for details prohibited

##### § 5535. Extra pay for details prohibited

(a) An officer may not receive pay in addition to the pay for his regular office for performing the duties of a vacant office as authorized by sections 3345–3347 of this title.

(b) An employee may not receive—

This subsection does not prevent a regular and permanent appointment by promotion from a lower to a higher grade of employment.

(1) additional pay or allowances for performing the duties of another employee; or

(2) pay in addition to the regular pay received for employment held before his appointment or designation as acting for or instead of an occupant of another position or employment.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 484](/us/stat/80/484).)*

Subsection (a) was part of title IV of the Revised Statutes. The [Act of July 26, 1947, ch. 343, § 201(d)](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/s201/d), as added [Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, § 4](/us/act/1949-08-10/ch412/s4), [63 Stat. 579](/us/stat/63/579) (former [5 U.S.C. 171–1](/us/usc/t5/s171–1)), which provides “Except to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this Act [National Security Act of 1947], the provisions of title IV of the Revised Statutes as now or hereafter amended shall be applicable to the Department of Defense” is omitted from this title but is not repealed.

In subsection (a), the words “regular office” are coextensive with and substituted for “proper office”.

In subsection (b), former sections 69 (1st 34 words) and 72 are combined and restated for clarity and conciseness. The word “employee” is coextensive with and substituted for “officer or clerk”, “officer or clerk in the same or any other department”, and “person employed in the service of the United States”. The words “under any general or lump-sum appropriation” are omitted as unnecessary.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
| (a) | 5 U.S.C. 9. | R.S. § 182. |
| (b) | 5 U.S.C. 69 (1st 34 words). | R.S. § 1764 (1st 34 words). |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 72. | Aug. 1, 1914, ch. 223, § 12, 38 Stat. 680. |
