---
title: "§ 1831z. Bi-annual FDIC survey and report on encouraging use of depository institutions by the unbanked"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1831z"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1831z"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-21/ch967/s2)[49], as added [Pub. L. 109–173, § 7](/us/pl/109/173/s7), Feb. 15, 2006, [119 Stat. 3609](/us/stat/119/3609).)"
---
# § 1831z. Bi-annual FDIC survey and report on encouraging use of depository institutions by the unbanked

##### § 1831z. Bi-annual FDIC survey and report on encouraging use of depository institutions by the unbanked

(a) Survey required

(1) In general The Corporation shall conduct a bi-annual survey on efforts by insured depository institutions to bring those individuals and families who have rarely, if ever, held a checking account, a savings account or other type of transaction or check cashing account at an insured depository institution (hereafter in this section referred to as the “unbanked”) into the conventional finance system.

(2) Factors and questions to consider In conducting the survey, the Corporation shall take the following factors and questions into account:

(A) To what extent do insured depository institutions promote financial education and financial literacy outreach?

(B) Which financial education efforts appear to be the most effective in bringing “unbanked” individuals and families into the conventional finance system?

(C) What efforts are insured institutions making at converting “unbanked” money order, wire transfer, and international remittance customers into conventional account holders?

(D) What cultural, language and identification issues as well as transaction costs appear to most prevent “unbanked” individuals from establishing conventional accounts?

(E) What is a fair estimate of the size and worth of the “unbanked” market in the United States?

(b) Reports The Chairperson of the Board of Directors shall submit a bi-annual report to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate containing the Corporation’s findings and conclusions with respect to the survey conducted pursuant to subsection (a), together with such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Chairperson may determine to be appropriate.

*([Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-21/ch967/s2)[49], as added [Pub. L. 109–173, § 7](/us/pl/109/173/s7), Feb. 15, 2006, [119 Stat. 3609](/us/stat/119/3609).)*
