---
title: "§ 3994. Eligible programs"
identifier: "USC-T20-S3994"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section3994"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–377, title III, § 324](/us/pl/98/377/tIII/s324), as added [Pub. L. 100–418, title VI, § 6031(a)(2)](/us/pl/100/418/tVI/s6031/a/2), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1480](/us/stat/102/1480).)"
---
# § 3994. Eligible programs

##### § 3994. Eligible programs

(a) In general A State may use funds from grants received in any fiscal year under this part for elementary and secondary programs described in this section. The State educational agency shall administer such funds, which shall be awarded to such programs on a competitive basis.

(b) Use of funds Funds from grants received under this part may be used for the following:

(1) Improvement of elementary and secondary resources Such funds may be used for acquisition of equipment, instructional and reference materials, and partnership in education programs designed to—

(A) improve instruction in mathematics and science education at the elementary and secondary level;

(B) improve laboratory facilities, classroom and library resources in elementary and secondary mathematics and science education; and

(C) attract matching dollars and in kind contributions of equipment, learning resources or shared time from business concerns, libraries, museums, nonprofit private organizations, professional mathematics and scientific associations, and appropriate State agencies.

(2) Advanced placement programs

(A) Such funds may be used for advanced placement programs operated by local educational agencies that are designed to allow qualified secondary students to attend college preparatory schools, colleges, or universities on a part-time or full-time basis with respect to science and mathematics instruction.

(B) A local educational agency that receives funds from a grant under this part for an advanced placement program described in subparagraph (A) shall allocate to such program a percentage of funds received from the State on a per student basis according to—

(i) the number of students participating in the program; and

(ii) the instruction time such students receive under the program.

*([Pub. L. 98–377, title III, § 324](/us/pl/98/377/tIII/s324), as added [Pub. L. 100–418, title VI, § 6031(a)(2)](/us/pl/100/418/tVI/s6031/a/2), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1480](/us/stat/102/1480).)*
