---
title: "§ 1383. Transfer of property by President of United States"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1383"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1383"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1946, ch. 536, § 4](/us/act/1946-07-03/ch536/s4), [60 Stat. 419](/us/stat/60/419).)"
---
# § 1383. Transfer of property by President of United States

##### § 1383. Transfer of property by President of United States

In respect to property not transferable to the Republic of the Philippines under [section 1382 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1382), the President of the United States is authorized, in his discretion and under such terms and conditions as he may deem appropriate, to transfer to the Republic of the Philippines any or all of the right, title, and interest of the Government of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities to any or all real and personal property vested in such agencies or instrumentalities.

*([July 3, 1946, ch. 536, § 4](/us/act/1946-07-03/ch536/s4), [60 Stat. 419](/us/stat/60/419).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 9937. Delegation of President’s Authority to Agencies Participating in the Philippine Recovery Program

Ex. Ord. No. 9937, Mar. 20, 1948, 13 F.R. 1503 as amended by [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title I, § 103(a)](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288/tI/s103/a), [63 Stat. 380](/us/stat/63/380); 1949 Reorg. Plan No. 7, § 2, eff. Aug. 19, 1949, 14 F.R. 5228, [63 Stat. 1070](/us/stat/63/1070); 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 21, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1273](/us/stat/64/1273), provided:

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:

The Commissioner of Public Roads of the Department of Commerce, the Chief of Engineers of the United States Army, the Philippine War Damage Commission, the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service of the Federal Security Agency [now the Department of Health and Human Services], the Maritime Administration, the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service [now the United States Fish and Wildlife Service] of the Department of the Interior, and the Administrator of Civil Aeronautics, the Chief of the Weather Bureau [now the National Weather Service], and the Director of the Coast and Geodetic Survey [now the National Ocean Survey] of the Department of Commerce are hereby authorized, as to their respective agencies, to exercise the authority vested in the President by section 4 of the Philippine Property Act of 1946 ([60 Stat. 419](/us/stat/60/419)) [this section]: *Provided*, that this authority shall be exercised only with respect to property located in the Philippines in the possession and control of the respective agencies and utilized in carrying out the provisions of Title III of the Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946 ([60 Stat. 135](/us/stat/60/135)) [sections 1781 to 1789 of the former Appendix to Title 50, War and National Defense].
