---
title: "§ 5196g. Guidance and training by FEMA on coordination of emergency response plans"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5196g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5196g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. D, § 1236](/us/pl/115/254/dD/s1236), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3464](/us/stat/132/3464).)"
---
# § 5196g. Guidance and training by FEMA on coordination of emergency response plans

##### § 5196g. Guidance and training by FEMA on coordination of emergency response plans

(a) Training requirement The Administrator, in coordination with other relevant agencies, shall provide guidance and training on an annual basis to State, local, and Indian tribal governments, first responders, and facilities that store hazardous materials on coordination of emergency response plans in the event of a major disaster or emergency, including severe weather events. The guidance and training shall include the following:

(1) Providing a list of equipment required in the event a hazardous substance is released into the environment.

(2) Outlining the health risks associated with exposure to hazardous substances to improve treatment response.

(3) Publishing best practices for mitigating further danger to communities from hazardous substances.

(b) Implementation The requirement of subsection (a) shall be implemented not later than 180 days after October 5, 2018.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. D, § 1236](/us/pl/115/254/dD/s1236), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3464](/us/stat/132/3464).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 and as part of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, and not as part of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “Administrator” and “State” as used in this section, see [section 1203 of Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254/s1203), set out as a note under [section 5122 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5122).
