---
title: "§ 1511. Suspension or termination of licenses"
identifier: "USC-T33-S1511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section1511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–627, § 12](/us/pl/93/627/s12), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2138](/us/stat/88/2138).)"
---
# § 1511. Suspension or termination of licenses

##### § 1511. Suspension or termination of licenses

(a) Proceedings by Attorney General; venue; conditions subsequent Whenever a licensee fails to comply with any applicable provision of this chapter, or any applicable rule, regulation, restriction, or condition issued or imposed by the Secretary under the authority of this chapter, the Attorney General, at the request of the Secretary, may file an appropriate action in the United States district court nearest to the location of the proposed or actual deepwater port, as the case may be, or in the district in which the licensee resides or may be found, to—

No proceeding under this subsection is necessary if the license, by its terms, provides for automatic suspension or termination upon the occurrence of a fixed or agreed upon condition, event, or time.

(1) suspend the license; or

(2) if such failure is knowing and continues for a period of thirty days after the Secretary mails notification of such failure by registered letter to the licensee at his record post office address, revoke such license.

(b) Public health or safety; danger to environment; completion of proceedings If the Secretary determines that immediate suspension of the construction or operation of a deepwater port or any component thereof is necessary to protect public health or safety or to eliminate imminent and substantial danger to the environment, he shall order the licensee to cease or alter such construction or operation pending the completion of a judicial proceeding pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.

*([Pub. L. 93–627, § 12](/us/pl/93/627/s12), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2138](/us/stat/88/2138).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In subsec. (a), “chapter” substituted for “title” to conform to other substitutions for “Act” and as reflecting intent of Congress manifest throughout [Pub. L. 93–627](/us/pl/93/627) in the use of the term “Act”.
