---
title: "§ 8542. Interagency weather research and forecast innovation coordination"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8542"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8542"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–25, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/115/25/tIV/s402), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 106](/us/stat/131/106).)"
---
# § 8542. Interagency weather research and forecast innovation coordination

##### § 8542. Interagency weather research and forecast innovation coordination

(a) Establishment The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall establish an Interagency Committee for Advancing Weather Services to improve coordination of relevant weather research and forecast innovation activities across the Federal Government. The Interagency Committee shall—

(1) include participation by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and its constituent elements, the National Science Foundation, and such other agencies involved in weather forecasting research as the President determines are appropriate;

(2) identify and prioritize top forecast needs and coordinate those needs against budget requests and program initiatives across participating offices and agencies; and

(3) share information regarding operational needs and forecasting improvements across relevant agencies.

(b) Co-chair The Federal Coordinator for Meteorology shall serve as a co-chair of this panel.

(c) Further coordination The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall take such other steps as are necessary to coordinate the activities of the Federal Government with those of the United States weather industry, State governments, emergency managers, and academic researchers.

*([Pub. L. 115–25, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/115/25/tIV/s402), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 106](/us/stat/131/106).)*
