---
title: "§ 7274. Promise neighborhoods"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7274"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7274"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4624](/us/pl/89/10/tIV/s4624), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, § 4601](/us/pl/114/95/tIV/s4601), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/129/2026).)"
---
# § 7274. Promise neighborhoods

##### § 7274. Promise neighborhoods

(a) Application requirements An eligible entity desiring a grant under this subpart for activities described in this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may require, including, at a minimum, all of the following:

(1) A plan to significantly improve the academic outcomes of children living in a neighborhood that is served by the eligible entity—

(A) by providing pipeline services that address the needs of children in the neighborhood, as identified by the needs analysis described in paragraph (4); and

(B) that is supported by effective practices.

(2) A description of the neighborhood that the eligible entity will serve.

(3) Measurable annual objectives and outcomes for the grant, in accordance with the metrics described in subsection (h), for each year of the grant.

(4) An analysis of the needs and assets of the neighborhood identified in paragraph (1), including—

(A) the size and scope of the population affected;

(B) a description of the process through which the needs analysis was produced, including a description of how parents, families, and community members were engaged in such analysis;

(C) an analysis of community assets and collaborative efforts (including programs already provided from Federal and non-Federal sources) within, or accessible to, the neighborhood, including, at a minimum, early learning opportunities, family and student supports, local businesses, local educational agencies, and institutions of higher education;

(D) the steps that the eligible entity is taking, at the time of the application, to address the needs identified in the needs analysis; and

(E) any barriers the eligible entity, public agencies, and other community-based organizations have faced in meeting such needs.

(5) A description of—

(A) all information that the entity used to identify the pipeline services to be provided, which shall not include information that is more than 3 years old; and

(B) how the eligible entity will—

(i) collect data on children served by each pipeline service; and

(ii) increase the percentage of children served over time.

(6) A description of the process used to develop the application, including the involvement of family and community members.

(7) A description of how the pipeline services will facilitate the coordination of the following activities:

(A) Providing early learning opportunities for children, including by—

(i) providing opportunities for families to acquire the skills to promote early learning and child development; and

(ii) ensuring appropriate diagnostic assessments and referrals for children with disabilities and children aged 3 through 9 experiencing developmental delays, consistent with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act ([20 U.S.C. 1400](/us/usc/t20/s1400) et seq.), where applicable.

(B) Supporting, enhancing, operating, or expanding rigorous, comprehensive, effective educational improvements, which may include high-quality academic programs, expanded learning time, and programs and activities to prepare students for postsecondary education admissions and success.

(C) Supporting partnerships between schools and other community resources with an integrated focus on academics and other social, health, and familial supports.

(D) Providing social, health, nutrition, and mental health services and supports, for children, family members, and community members, which may include services provided within the school building.

(E) Supporting evidence-based programs that assist students through school transitions, which may include expanding access to postsecondary education courses and postsecondary education enrollment aid or guidance, and other supports for at-risk youth.

(8) A description of the strategies that will be used to provide pipeline services (including a description of which programs and services will be provided to children, family members, community members, and children within the neighborhood) to support the purpose described in [section 7271(1) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7271/1).

(9) An explanation of the process the eligible entity will use to establish and maintain family and community engagement, including—

(A) involving representative participation by the members of such neighborhood in the planning and implementation of the activities of each grant awarded under this subpart for activities described in this section;

(B) the provision of strategies and practices to assist family and community members in actively supporting student achievement and child development;

(C) providing services for students, families, and communities within the school building; and

(D) collaboration with institutions of higher education, workforce development centers, and employers to align expectations and programming with postsecondary education and workforce readiness,

(10) An explanation of how the eligible entity will continuously evaluate and improve the continuum of high-quality pipeline services to provide for continuous program improvement and potential expansion.

(b) Priority In awarding grants for activities described in this section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that will use funds under subsection (d) for evidence-based activities, which, for purposes of this subsection, is defined as activities meeting the requirements of [section 7801(21)(A)(i) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7801/21/A/i).

(c) Memorandum of understanding As eligible entity shall, as part of the application described in subsection (a), submit a preliminary memorandum of understanding, signed by each partner entity or agency described in [section 7272(1)(A)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7272/1/A/3) (if applicable) and detailing each partner’s financial, programmatic, and long-term commitment with respect to the strategies described in the application.

(d) Uses of funds Each eligible entity that receives a grant under this subpart to carry out a program of activities described in this section shall use the grant funds to—

(1) support planning activities to develop and implement pipeline services;

(2) implement the pipeline services; and

(3) continuously evaluate the success of the program and improve the program based on data and outcomes.

(e) Special rules

(1) Funds for pipeline services Each eligible entity that receives a grant under this subpart for activities described in this section shall, for the first year of the grant, use not less than 50 percent of the grant funds, and, for the second year of the grant, use not less than 25 percent of the grant funds, to carry out the activities described in subsection (d)(1).

(2) Operational flexibility Each eligible entity that operates a school in a neighborhood served by a grant program under this subpart for activities described in this section shall provide such school with the operational flexibility, including autonomy over staff, time, and budget, needed to effectively carry out the activities described in the application under subsection (a).

(3) Limitation on use of funds for early childhood education programs Funds provided under this subpart for activities described in this section that are used to improve early childhood education programs shall not be used to carry out any of the following activities:

(A) Assessments that provide rewards or sanctions for individual children or teachers.

(B) A single assessment that is used as the primary or sole method for assessing program effectiveness.

(C) Evaluating children, other than for the purposes of improving instruction, classroom environment, professional development, or parent and family engagement, or program improvement.

(f) Report Each eligible entity that receives a grant under this subpart for activities described in this section shall prepare and submit an annual report to the Secretary, which shall include—

(1) information about the number and percentage of children in the neighborhood who are served by the grant program, including a description of the number and percentage of children accessing each support or service offered as part of the pipeline services; and

(2) information relating to the performance metrics described in subsection (h).

(g) Publicly available data Each eligible entity that receives a grant under this subpart for activities described in this section shall make publicly available, including through electronic means, the information described in subsection (f). To the extent practicable, such information shall be provided in a form and language accessible to parents and families in the neighborhood served under the grant, and such information shall be a part of statewide longitudinal data systems.

(h) Performance indicators

(1) In general The Secretary shall establish performance indicators under paragraph (2) and corresponding metrics to be used for the purpose of reporting under paragraph (3) and program evaluation under subsection (i).

(2) Indicators The performance indicators established by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be indicators of improved academic and developmental outcomes for children, including indicators of school readiness, high school graduation, postsecondary education and career readiness, and other academic and developmental outcomes, to promote—

(A) data-driven decision-making by eligible entities receiving funds under this subpart; and

(B) access to a community-based continuum of high-quality services for children living in the most distressed communities of the United States, beginning at birth.

(3) Reporting Each eligible entity that receives a grant under this subpart for activities described in this section shall annually collect and report to the Secretary data on the performance indicators described in paragraph (2) for use by the Secretary in making a determination concerning continuation funding and grant extension under [section 7273(b) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7273/b) for each eligible entity.

(i) Evaluation The Secretary shall reserve not more than 5 percent of the funds made available under [section 7251(b)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7251/b/2/A) to provide technical assistance and evaluate the implementation and impact of the activities funded under this section, in accordance with [section 7981 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7981).

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4624](/us/pl/89/10/tIV/s4624), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, § 4601](/us/pl/114/95/tIV/s4601), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/129/2026).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(7)(A)(ii), is title VI of [Pub. L. 91–230](/us/pl/91/230), Apr. 13, 1970, [84 Stat. 175](/us/stat/84/175), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1400 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1400) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
