---
title: "§ 1333. Laws and regulations governing lands"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1333"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1333"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345, § 4](/us/act/1953-08-07/ch345/s4), [67 Stat. 462](/us/stat/67/462); [Pub. L. 93–627, § 19(f)](/us/pl/93/627/s19/f), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2146](/us/stat/88/2146); [Pub. L. 95–372, title II, § 203](/us/pl/95/372/tII/s203), Sept. 18, 1978, [92 Stat. 635](/us/stat/92/635); [Pub. L. 98–426, § 27(d)(2)](/us/pl/98/426/s27/d/2), Sept. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/98/1654); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCV, § 9503](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCV/s9503), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Sta"
---
# § 1333. Laws and regulations governing lands

##### § 1333. Laws and regulations governing lands

(a) Constitution and United States laws; laws of adjacent States; publication of projected State lines; international boundary disputes; restriction on State taxation and jurisdiction

(1) Jurisdiction of the united states on the outer continental shelf.—

(A) In general.— The Constitution and laws and civil and political jurisdiction of the United States are extended, to the same extent as if the outer Continental Shelf were an area of exclusive Federal jurisdiction located within a State, to—

(i) the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf;

(ii) all artificial islands on the outer Continental Shelf;

(iii) installations and other devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed, which may be erected thereon for the purpose of exploring for, developing, or producing resources, including non-mineral energy resources; or

(iv) any such installation or other device (other than a ship or vessel) for the purpose of transporting or transmitting such resources.

(B) Leases issued exclusively under this act.— Mineral or energy leases on the outer Continental Shelf shall be maintained or issued only under the provisions of this subchapter.

(2)

(A) To the extent that they are applicable and not inconsistent with this subchapter or with other Federal laws and regulations of the Secretary now in effect or hereafter adopted, the civil and criminal laws of each adjacent State, now in effect or hereafter adopted, amended, or repealed are declared to be the law of the United States for that portion of the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf, and artificial islands and fixed structures erected thereon, which would be within the area of the State if its boundaries were extended seaward to the outer margin of the outer Continental Shelf, and the President shall determine and publish in the Federal Register such projected lines extending seaward and defining each such area. All of such applicable laws shall be administered and enforced by the appropriate officers and courts of the United States. State taxation laws shall not apply to the outer Continental Shelf.

(B) Within one year after September 18, 1978, the President shall establish procedures for setting 11 So in original. Probably should be “settling”. any outstanding international boundary dispute respecting the outer Continental Shelf.

(3) The provisions of this section for adoption of State law as the law of the United States shall never be interpreted as a basis for claiming any interest in or jurisdiction on behalf of any State for any purpose over the seabed and subsoil of the outer Continental Shelf, or the property and natural resources thereof or the revenues therefrom.

(b) Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act applicable; definitions With respect to disability or death of an employee resulting from any injury occurring as the result of operations conducted on the outer Continental Shelf for the purpose of exploring for, developing, removing, or transporting by pipeline the natural resources, or involving rights to the natural resources, of the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf, compensation shall be payable under the provisions of the Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act [[33 U.S.C. 901](/us/usc/t33/s901) et seq.]. For the purposes of the extension of the provisions of the Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act under this section—

(1) the term “employee” does not include a master or member of a crew of any vessel, or an officer or employee of the United States or any agency thereof or of any State or foreign government, or of any political subdivision thereof;

(2) the term “employer” means an employer any of whose employees are employed in such operations; and

(3) the term “United States” when used in a geographical sense includes the outer Continental Shelf and artificial islands and fixed structures thereon.

(c) National Labor Relations Act applicable For the purposes of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended [[29 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t29/s151) et seq.], any unfair labor practice, as defined in such Act, occurring upon any artificial island, installation, or other device referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be deemed to have occurred within the judicial district of the State, the laws of which apply to such artificial island, installation, or other device pursuant to such subsection, except that until the President determines the areas within which such State laws are applicable, the judicial district shall be that of the State nearest the place of location of such artificial island, installation, or other device.

(d) Coast Guard regulations; marking of artificial islands, installations, and other devices; failure of owner suitably to mark according to regulations

(1) The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall have authority to promulgate and enforce such reasonable regulations with respect to lights and other warning devices, safety equipment, and other matters relating to the promotion of safety of life and property on the artificial islands, installations, and other devices referred to in subsection (a) or on the waters adjacent thereto, as he may deem necessary.

(2) The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating may mark for the protection of navigation any artificial island, installation, or other device referred to in subsection (a) whenever the owner has failed suitably to mark such island, installation, or other device in accordance with regulations issued under this subchapter, and the owner shall pay the cost of such marking.

(e) Authority of Secretary of the Army to prevent obstruction to navigation The authority of the Secretary of the Army to prevent obstruction to navigation in the navigable waters of the United States is extended to the artificial islands, installations, and other devices referred to in subsection (a).

(f) Provisions as nonexclusive The specific application by this section of certain provisions of law to the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf and the artificial islands, installations, and other devices referred to in subsection (a) or to acts or offenses occurring or committed thereon shall not give rise to any inference that the application to such islands and structures, acts, or offenses of any other provision of law is not intended.

*([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345, § 4](/us/act/1953-08-07/ch345/s4), [67 Stat. 462](/us/stat/67/462); [Pub. L. 93–627, § 19(f)](/us/pl/93/627/s19/f), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2146](/us/stat/88/2146); [Pub. L. 95–372, title II, § 203](/us/pl/95/372/tII/s203), Sept. 18, 1978, [92 Stat. 635](/us/stat/92/635); [Pub. L. 98–426, § 27(d)(2)](/us/pl/98/426/s27/d/2), Sept. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/98/1654); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCV, § 9503](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCV/s9503), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4822](/us/stat/134/4822).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 509](/us/act/1927-03-04/ch509), [44 Stat. 1424](/us/stat/44/1424), which is classified generally to chapter 18 (§ 901 et seq.) of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 901 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s901) and Tables.

The National Labor Relations Act, as amended, referred to in subsec. (c), is [act July 5, 1935, ch. 372](/us/act/1935-07-05/ch372), [49 Stat. 449](/us/stat/49/449), which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 151 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 167 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s167) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “The Constitution and laws and civil and political jurisdiction of the United States are extended to the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf and to all artificial islands, and all installations and other devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed, which may be erected thereon for the purpose of exploring for, developing, or producing resources therefrom, or any such installation or other device (other than a ship or vessel) for the purpose of transporting such resources, to the same extent as if the outer Continental Shelf were an area of exclusive Federal jurisdiction located within a State: *Provided, however*, That mineral leases on the outer Continental Shelf shall be maintained or issued only under the provisions of this subchapter.”

1984—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–426](/us/pl/98/426) substituted “Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act” for “Longshoremen’s and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act”.

1978—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 95–372, § 203(a)](/us/pl/95/372/s203/a), substituted “, and all installations and other devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed, which may be erected thereon for the purpose of exploring for, developing, or producing resources therefrom, or any such installation or other device (other than a ship or vessel) for the purpose of transporting such resources,” for “and fixed structures which may be erected thereon for the purpose of exploring for, developing, removing, and transporting resources therefrom,”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 95–372, § 203(b)](/us/pl/95/372/s203/b), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A) and added subpar. (B).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 95–372, § 203(c)](/us/pl/95/372/s203/c), (h), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and substituted “conducted on the outer Continental Shelf for the purpose of exploring for, developing, removing, or transporting by pipeline the natural resources, or involving rights to the natural resources, of the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf,” for “described in subsection (b) of this section,”. Former subsec. (b), relating to the jurisdiction of United States district courts over cases and controversies arising out of or in connection with operations conducted on the outer Continental Shelf, was struck out. See [section 1349(b) of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1349/b).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 95–372, § 203(d)](/us/pl/95/372/s203/d), (h), redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and substituted “artificial island, installation, or other device referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be deemed to have occurred within the judicial district of the State, the laws of which apply to such artificial island, installation, or other device pursuant to such subsection, except that until the President determines the areas within such State laws are applicable, the judicial district shall be that of the State nearest the place of location of such artificial island, installation, or other device” for “artificial island or fixed structure referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be deemed to have occurred within the judicial district of the adjacent State nearest the place of location of such island or structure”. Former subsec. (c) redesignated (b).

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 95–372, § 203(e)(1)](/us/pl/95/372/s203/e/1), (f), (h), redesignated subsec. (e)(1) as (d)(1), substituted “Secretary” for “head” and “artificial islands, installations, and other devices” for “islands and structures”. Former subsec. (d) redesignated (c).

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 95–372, § 203(g)](/us/pl/95/372/s203/g), (h), redesignated subsec. (e)(2) as (d)(2) and substituted “Secretary” for “head” and “artificial island, installation, or other device referred to in subsection (a) whenever the owner has failed suitably to mark such island, installation, or other device in accordance with regulations issued under this subchapter, and the owner shall pay the cost of such marking” for “such island or structure whenever the owner has failed suitably to mark the same in accordance with regulations issued hereunder, and the owner shall pay the cost thereof”, and struck out provisions which had made failure or refusal to obey any lawful rules and regulations a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $100, with each day during which such a violation would continue to be deemed a new offense. Former subsec. (d) redesignated (c).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 95–372, § 203(e)(2)](/us/pl/95/372/s203/e/2), (h), redesignated subsec. (f) as (e) and substituted “the artificial islands, installations, and other devices referred to in subsection (a)” for “artificial islands and fixed structures located on the outer Continental Shelf”. Former subsec. (e) redesignated (d).

Subsecs. (f), (g). [Pub. L. 95–372, § 203(e)(3)](/us/pl/95/372/s203/e/3), (h), redesignated subsec. (g) as (f) and substituted “the artificial islands, installations, and other devices” for “the artificial islands and fixed structures”. Former subsec. (f) redesignated (e).

1975—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 93–627](/us/pl/93/627) substituted “now in effect or hereafter adopted, amended, or repealed” for “as of the effective date of this Act” in first sentence.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
