---
title: "§ 2075. Acquisition of special nuclear material; payments; just compensation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2075"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2075"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 55, as added [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 931](/us/stat/68/931); amended [Pub. L. 88–489, § 10](/us/pl/88/489/s10), Aug. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 604](/us/stat/78/604); [Pub. L. 95–242, title III, § 303(b)(2)](/us/pl/95/242/tIII/s303/b/2), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 131](/us/stat/92/131); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8)](/us/pl/102/486/tIX/s902/a/8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 "
---
# § 2075. Acquisition of special nuclear material; payments; just compensation

##### § 2075. Acquisition of special nuclear material; payments; just compensation

The Commission is authorized, to the extent it deems necessary to effectuate the provisions of this chapter, to purchase without regard to the limitations in [section 2074 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2074) or any guaranteed purchase prices established pursuant to [section 2076 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2076), and to take, requisition, condemn, or otherwise acquire any special nuclear material or any interest therein. Any contract of purchase made under this section may be made without regard to the provisions of [section 6101 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s6101), upon certification by the Commission that such action is necessary in the interest of the common defense and security, or upon a showing by the Commission that advertising is not reasonably practicable. Partial and advance payments may be made under contracts for such purposes. Just compensation shall be made for any right, property, or interest in property taken, requisitioned, or condemned under this section: *Providing*, That the authority in this section to commit United States funds for any activities pursuant to any subsequent arrangement under [section 2160(a)(2)(E) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2160/a/2/E) shall be subject to the requirements of [section 2160 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2160).

*([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 55, as added [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 931](/us/stat/68/931); amended [Pub. L. 88–489, § 10](/us/pl/88/489/s10), Aug. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 604](/us/stat/78/604); [Pub. L. 95–242, title III, § 303(b)(2)](/us/pl/95/242/tIII/s303/b/2), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 131](/us/stat/92/131); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8)](/us/pl/102/486/tIX/s902/a/8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2944](/us/stat/106/2944).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 919](/us/stat/68/919), known as the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2011) and Tables.

#### Codification

In text, “[section 6101 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s6101)” substituted for “section 3709 of the Revised Statutes, as amended” on authority of [Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c)](/us/pl/111/350/s6/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3854](/us/stat/124/3854), which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to this section were contained in [section 1805(a)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1805/a/5), prior to the general amendment and renumbering of act Aug. 1, 1946, by act Aug. 30, 1954.

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–424](/us/pl/95/424) provided that the authority in this section to commit United States funds for any activities pursuant to any subsequent arrangement under [section 2160(a)(2)(E) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2160/a/2/E) shall be subject to the requirement of [section 2160 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2160).

1964—[Pub. L. 88–489](/us/pl/88/489) limited the authorization to the extent necessary to effectuate the chapter, inserted “without regard to the limitations in [section 2074 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2074) or any guaranteed purchase prices established pursuant to [section 2076 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2076), and to take, requisition, condemn,” and “Any contract of purchase made under this section may be made”, provided for just compensation for any right, property, or interest taken, requisitioned, or condemned under this section, and struck out “outside the United States” after “any interest therein”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242) effective Mar. 10, 1978, except as otherwise provided and regardless of any requirement for the promulgation of implementing regulations, see [section 603(c) of Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242/s603/c), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
