---
title: "§ 17033. Biofuels and biorefinery information center"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17033"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17033"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 229](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s229), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/121/1535).)"
---
# § 17033. Biofuels and biorefinery information center

##### § 17033. Biofuels and biorefinery information center

(a) In general The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall establish a biofuels and biorefinery information center to make available to interested parties information on—

(1) renewable fuel feedstocks, including the varieties of fuel capable of being produced from various feedstocks;

(2) biorefinery processing techniques related to various renewable fuel feedstocks;

(3) the distribution, blending, storage, and retail dispensing infrastructure necessary for the transport and use of renewable fuels;

(4) Federal and State laws and incentives related to renewable fuel production and use;

(5) renewable fuel research and development advancements;

(6) renewable fuel development and biorefinery processes and technologies;

(7) renewable fuel resources, including information on programs and incentives for renewable fuels;

(8) renewable fuel producers;

(9) renewable fuel users; and

(10) potential renewable fuel users.

(b) Administration In administering the biofuels and biorefinery information center, the Secretary shall—

(1) continually update information provided by the center;

(2) make information available relating to processes and technologies for renewable fuel production;

(3) make information available to interested parties on the process for establishing a biorefinery; and

(4) make information and assistance provided by the center available through a toll-free telephone number and website.

(c) Coordination and nonduplication To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall ensure that the activities under this section are coordinated with, and do not duplicate the efforts of, centers at other government agencies.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 229](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s229), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/121/1535).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
