---
title: "§ 3702. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12403](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12403), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1437](/us/stat/123/1437); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10643](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10643), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/136/1672).)"
---
# § 3702. Definitions

##### § 3702. Definitions

(1) Coastal acidification The term “coastal acidification” means the decrease in pH and changes in the water chemistry of coastal oceans, estuaries, and Great Lakes from atmospheric pollution, freshwater inputs, and excess nutrient run-off from land.

(2) Ocean acidification The term “ocean acidification” means the decrease in pH and changes in the water chemistry of the Earth’s oceans, coastal estuaries, marine waterways, and Great Lakes caused by carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and the breakdown of organic matter.

(3) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(4) Subcommittee The term “Subcommittee” means the National Science and Technology Council Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology.

(5) State The term “State” means each State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12403](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12403), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1437](/us/stat/123/1437); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10643](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10643), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/136/1672).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10643(4)](/us/pl/117/167/s10643/4), added par. (1). Former par. (1) redesignated (2).

[Pub. L. 117–167, § 10643(1)](/us/pl/117/167/s10643/1), substituted “and changes in the water chemistry of the Earth’s oceans, coastal estuaries, marine waterways, and Great Lakes caused by carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and the breakdown of organic matter” for “of the Earth’s oceans and changes in ocean chemistry caused by chemical inputs from the atmosphere, including carbon dioxide”.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10643(3)](/us/pl/117/167/s10643/3), redesignated par. (1) as (2). Former par. (2) redesignated (3).

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10643(3)](/us/pl/117/167/s10643/3), redesignated par. (2) as (3). Former par. (3) redesignated (4).

[Pub. L. 117–167, § 10643(2)](/us/pl/117/167/s10643/2), substituted “National Science and Technology Council Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology” for “Joint Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology of the National Science and Technology Council”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10643(3)](/us/pl/117/167/s10643/3), redesignated par. (3) as (4).

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10643(5)](/us/pl/117/167/s10643/5), added par. (5).
