---
title: "§ 2604. Rules and regulations generally; consultation and agreements with other agencies regarding fire regulations"
identifier: "USC-T43-S2604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section2604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876](/us/act/1937-08-28/ch876), title I, § 5, [50 Stat. 875](/us/stat/50/875).)"
---
# § 2604. Rules and regulations generally; consultation and agreements with other agencies regarding fire regulations

##### § 2604. Rules and regulations generally; consultation and agreements with other agencies regarding fire regulations

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to perform any and all acts and to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary and proper for the purpose of carrying the provisions of this subchapter into full force and effect. The Secretary of the Interior is further authorized, in formulating forest-practice rules and regulations, to consult with the Oregon State Board of Forestry, representatives of timber owners and operators on or contiguous to said revested and reconveyed lands, and other persons or agencies interested in the use of such lands.

In formulating regulations for the protection of such timberlands against fire, the Secretary is authorized, in his discretion, to consult and advise with Federal, State, and county agencies engaged in forest-fire-protection work, and to make agreements with such agencies for the cooperative administration of fire regulations therein: *Provided*, That rules and regulations for the protection of the revested lands from fire shall conform with the requirements and practices of the State of Oregon insofar as the same are consistent with the interests of the United States.

*([Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876](/us/act/1937-08-28/ch876), title I, § 5, [50 Stat. 875](/us/stat/50/875).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876](/us/act/1937-08-28/ch876), [50 Stat. 874](/us/stat/50/874), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1181e of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1181e) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
