---
title: "§ 3106. Master key control system"
identifier: "USC-T46-S3106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section3106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXVI, § 11608(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXVI/s11608/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4151](/us/stat/136/4151).)"
---
# § 3106. Master key control system

##### § 3106. Master key control system

(a) In General.— The owner of a vessel subject to inspection under section 3301 shall—

(1) ensure that such vessel is equipped with a vessel master key control system, manual or electronic, which provides controlled access to all copies of the vessel’s master key of which access shall only be available to the individuals described in paragraph (2);

(2) establish a list of all crew, identified by position, allowed to access and use the master key and maintain such list upon the vessel, within owner records and included in the vessel safety management system;

(3) record in a log book information on all access and use of the vessel’s master key, including—

(A) dates and times of access;

(B) the room or location accessed; and

(C) the name and rank of the crew member that used the master key; and

(4) make the list under paragraph (2) and the log book under paragraph (3) available upon request to any agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, any member of the Coast Guard, and any law enforcement officer performing official duties in the course and scope of an investigation.

(b) Prohibited Use.— Crew not included on the list described in subsection (a)(2) shall not have access to or use the master key unless in an emergency and shall immediately notify the master and owner of the vessel following use of such key.

(c) Requirements for Log Book.— The log book described in subsection (a)(3) and required to be included in a safety management system under section 3203(a)(6)—

(1) may be electronic; and

(2) shall be located in a centralized location that is readily accessible to law enforcement personnel.

(d) Penalty.— Any crew member who uses the master key without having been granted access pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall be liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 and may be subject to suspension or revocation under section 7703.

(e) Exemption.— This section shall not apply to vessels subject to section 3507(f).

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXVI, § 11608(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXVI/s11608/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4151](/us/stat/136/4151).)*
