---
title: "§ 7931. Sense of Congress on early learning and child care"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7931"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7931"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8549B](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8549B), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8041](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8041), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2122](/us/stat/129/2122).)"
---
# § 7931. Sense of Congress on early learning and child care

##### § 7931. Sense of Congress on early learning and child care

It is the Sense of the Congress that a State retains the right to make decisions, free from Federal intrusion, concerning its system of early learning and child care, and whether or not to use funding under this chapter to offer early childhood education programs. Such systems should continue to include robust choice for parents through a mixed delivery system of services so parents can determine the right early learning and child care option for their children. States, while protecting the rights of early learning and child care providers, retain the right to make decisions that shall include the age at which to set compulsory attendance in school, the content of a State’s early learning guidelines, and how to determine quality in programs.

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8549B](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8549B), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8041](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8041), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2122](/us/stat/129/2122).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7931, [Pub. L. 89–10, title IX, § 9301](/us/pl/89/10/tIX/s9301), as added [Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101](/us/pl/103/382/tI/s101), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 3805](/us/stat/108/3805), set forth short title of the Alaska Native Educational Equity, Support and Assistance Act, prior to the general amendment of former subchapter IX of this chapter by [Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
