---
title: "§ 5494. Consumer Advisory Board"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5494"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5494"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1014](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1014), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1974](/us/stat/124/1974).)"
---
# § 5494. Consumer Advisory Board

##### § 5494. Consumer Advisory Board

(a) Establishment required The Director shall establish a Consumer Advisory Board to advise and consult with the Bureau in the exercise of its functions under the Federal consumer financial laws, and to provide information on emerging practices in the consumer financial products or services industry, including regional trends, concerns, and other relevant information.

(b) Membership In appointing the members of the Consumer Advisory Board, the Director shall seek to assemble experts in consumer protection, financial services, community development, fair lending and civil rights, and consumer financial products or services and representatives of depository institutions that primarily serve underserved communities, and representatives of communities that have been significantly impacted by higher-priced mortgage loans, and seek representation of the interests of covered persons and consumers, without regard to party affiliation. Not fewer than 6 members shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the regional Federal Reserve Bank Presidents, on a rotating basis.

(c) Meetings The Consumer Advisory Board shall meet from time to time at the call of the Director, but, at a minimum, shall meet at least twice in each year.

(d) Compensation and travel expenses Members of the Consumer Advisory Board who are not full-time employees of the United States shall—

(1) be entitled to receive compensation at a rate fixed by the Director while attending meetings of the Consumer Advisory Board, including travel time; and

(2) be allowed travel expenses, including transportation and subsistence, while away from their homes or regular places of business.

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1014](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1014), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1974](/us/stat/124/1974).)*
