---
title: "§ 460z–10. Advisory Council"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460z–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460z–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–260, § 12](/us/pl/92/260/s12), Mar. 23, 1972, [86 Stat. 102](/us/stat/86/102).)"
---
# § 460z–10. Advisory Council

##### § 460z–10. Advisory Council

(a) Establishment; membership The Secretary shall establish an advisory council for the Oregon Dunes National Recreation Area, and shall consult on a periodic and regular basis with such council with respect to matters relating to management and development of the recreation area. The members of the advisory council, who shall not exceed fifteen in number, shall serve for individual staggered terms of three years each and shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows:

(i) a member to represent each county in which a portion of the recreation area is located, each such appointee to be designated by the respective governing body of the county involved;

(ii) a member appointed to represent the State of Oregon, who shall be designated by the Governor of Oregon;

(iii) not to exceed eleven members appointed by the Secretary from among persons who, individually or through association with national or local organizations, have an interest in the administration of the recreation area; and

(iv) the Secretary shall designate one member to be Chairman and shall fill vacancies in the same manner as the original appointment.

(b) Private viewpoints The Secretary shall, in addition to his consultation with the advisory council, seek the views of other private groups and individuals with respect to administration of the recreation area.

(c) Payment of expenses The members shall not receive any compensation for their services as members of the council, as such, but the Secretary is authorized to pay expenses reasonably incurred by the council in carrying out its responsibilities.

*([Pub. L. 92–260, § 12](/us/pl/92/260/s12), Mar. 23, 1972, [86 Stat. 102](/us/stat/86/102).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Councils

Advisory councils in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a council established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such council is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a council established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
