---
title: "§ 1007. Responsibilities of agency heads"
identifier: "USC-T5-S1007"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section1007"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–286, § 3(a)](/us/pl/117/286/s3/a), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4201](/us/stat/136/4201).)"
---
# § 1007. Responsibilities of agency heads

##### § 1007. Responsibilities of agency heads

(a) Administrative Guidelines and Management Controls.— Each agency head shall establish uniform administrative guidelines and management controls for advisory committees established by that agency, which shall be consistent with directives of the Administrator under sections 1006 and 1009 of this title. Each agency shall maintain systematic information on the nature, functions, and operations of each advisory committee within its jurisdiction.

(b) Advisory Committee Management Officer.— The head of each agency that has an advisory committee shall designate an Advisory Committee Management Officer who shall—

(1) exercise control and supervision over the establishment, procedures, and accomplishments of advisory committees established by the agency;

(2) assemble and maintain the reports, records, and other papers of any advisory committee established by the agency during the advisory committee’s existence; and

(3) carry out, on behalf of the agency, the provisions of [section 552 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s552) with respect to such reports, records, and other papers.

*([Pub. L. 117–286, § 3(a)](/us/pl/117/286/s3/a), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4201](/us/stat/136/4201).)*

In subsection (a), the word “Administrator” is substituted for “Director” (meaning the Director of the Office of Management and Budget) because of section 5F of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977 (5 U.S.C. App.).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1007 | 5 U.S.C. App. (FACA § 8) | Pub. L. 92–463, § 8, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 773. |
