---
title: "§ 4508. Longevity compensation for telephone operators on United States telephone exchange and members of Capitol Police paid by Chief Administrative Officer of House"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–391, title III, § 310](/us/pl/95/391/tIII/s310), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 790](/us/stat/92/790); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 204(8)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s204/8), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1731](/us/stat/110/1731).)"
---
# § 4508. Longevity compensation for telephone operators on United States telephone exchange and members of Capitol Police paid by Chief Administrative Officer of House

##### § 4508. Longevity compensation for telephone operators on United States telephone exchange and members of Capitol Police paid by Chief Administrative Officer of House

The provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of section 4507 11 See Inapplicability of Section 4507 to Certain Employees note below. of this title (as amended by [section 110 of Pub. L. 95–391](/us/pl/95/391/s110)), shall apply to telephone operators (including the chief operator and assistant chief operators) on the United States Capitol telephone exchange and members of the Capitol Police whose compensation is disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives in the same manner and to the same extent as such provisions apply to individuals whose compensation is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate. For purposes of so applying such subsections, creditable service shall include service performed as an employee of the United States Capitol telephone exchange or a member of the Capitol Police whether compensation therefor is disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 95–391, title III, § 310](/us/pl/95/391/tIII/s310), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 790](/us/stat/92/790); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 204(8)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s204/8), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1731](/us/stat/110/1731).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 60j–2 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s60j–2) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) struck out “(a)” before “The provisions” and substituted “Chief Administrative Officer” for “Clerk” in two places.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Statutory functions, duties, or authority of Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate as disbursing officers for the Capitol Police transferred to Chief of the Capitol Police, and references in any law or resolution before Feb. 20, 2003, to funds paid or disbursed by Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives and Secretary of the Senate relating to pay and allowances of Capitol Police employees deemed to refer to Chief of the Capitol Police. See [section 1907(a) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1907/a).

#### Inapplicability of Section 4507 to Certain Employees

[Section 4507 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4507), referred to in text, not to apply, on or after Oct. 1, 1983, to any individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate except for individuals entitled to longevity compensation prior to Oct. 1, 1983, on the basis of service performed prior to such date, see [section 4509 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4509).
