---
title: "§ 15701. Providing transportation and service"
identifier: "USC-T49-S15701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section15701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 925](/us/stat/109/925); amended [Pub. L. 104–287, § 5(44)](/us/pl/104/287/s5/44), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3393](/us/stat/110/3393).)"
---
# § 15701. Providing transportation and service

##### § 15701. Providing transportation and service

(a) Service on Reasonable Request.— A pipeline carrier providing transportation or service under this part shall provide the transportation or service on reasonable request.

(b) Rates and Other Terms.— A pipeline carrier shall also provide to any person, on request, the carrier’s rates and other service terms. The response by a pipeline carrier to a request for the carrier’s rates and other service terms shall be—

(1) in writing and forwarded to the requesting person promptly after receipt of the request; or

(2) promptly made available in electronic form.

(c) Limitation on Rate Increases and Changes to Service Terms.— A pipeline carrier may not increase any common carrier rates or change any common carrier service terms unless 20 days have expired after written or electronic notice is provided to any person who, within the previous 12 months—

(1) has requested such rates or terms under subsection (b); or

(2) has made arrangements with the carrier for a shipment that would be subject to such increased rates or changed terms.

(d) Provision of Service.— A pipeline carrier shall provide transportation or service in accordance with the rates and service terms, and any changes thereto, as published or otherwise made available under subsection (b) or (c).

(e) Regulations.— The Board shall, by regulation, establish rules to implement this section. The regulations shall provide for immediate disclosure and dissemination of rates and service terms, including classifications, rules, and practices, and their effective dates. The regulations may modify the 20-day period specified in subsection (c). Final regulations shall be adopted by the Board not later than 180 days after January 1, 1996.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 925](/us/stat/109/925); amended [Pub. L. 104–287, § 5(44)](/us/pl/104/287/s5/44), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3393](/us/stat/110/3393).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s11101) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 104–287](/us/pl/104/287) substituted “January 1, 1996” for “the effective date of this section”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
