---
title: "§ 1990. Compact appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1990"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1990"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–42, div. G, title II, § 211](/us/pl/118/42/dG/tII/s211), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 450](/us/stat/138/450).)"
---
# § 1990. Compact appropriations

##### § 1990. Compact appropriations

(a) Funding for activities of the Secretary of the Interior For the period of fiscal years 2024 through 2043, there are appropriated to the Compact of Free Association account of the Department of the Interior, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until expended, the amounts described in and to carry out the purposes of—

(1) sections 261, 265, and 266 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;

(2) sections 261, 265, and 266 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact; and

(3) Articles 1, 2, and 3 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement.

(b) Funding for activities of the United States Postal Service

(1) Appropriation There is appropriated to the United States Postal Service, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2043, $31,700,000, to remain available until expended, to carry out the costs of the following provisions that are not otherwise funded:

(A) Section 221(a)(2) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact.

(B) Section 221(a)(2) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact.

(C) Section 221(a)(2) of the U.S.-Palau Compact.

(D) Article 6(a) of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement.

(2) Deposit

(A) In general The amounts appropriated to the United States Postal Service under paragraph (1) shall be deposited into the Postal Service Fund established under [section 2003 of title 39](/us/usc/t39/s2003) to carry out the provisions described in that paragraph.

(B) Requirement Any amounts deposited into the Postal Service Fund under subparagraph (A) shall be the fiduciary, fiscal, and audit responsibility of the Postal Service.

(c) Funding for Judicial training There is appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior to carry out [section 1988(d) of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1988/d) out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $550,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2043, to remain available until expended.

(d) Treatment of previously appropriated amounts The total amounts made available to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands under subsection (a) shall be reduced by amounts made available to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as applicable, under section 2101(a) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2024 and Other Extensions Act ([Public Law 118–15](/us/pl/118/15); [137 Stat. 81](/us/stat/137/81)) (as amended by section 101 of division B of the Further Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions Act, 2024 ([Public Law 118–22](/us/pl/118/22); [137 Stat. 114](/us/stat/137/114)) and section 201 of the Further Additional Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions Act, 2024 ([Public Law 118–35](/us/pl/118/35); [138 Stat. 7](/us/stat/138/7))).

*([Pub. L. 118–42, div. G, title II, § 211](/us/pl/118/42/dG/tII/s211), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 450](/us/stat/138/450).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 2101(a) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2024 and Other Extensions Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is [section 2101(a) of Pub. L. 118–15](/us/pl/118/15/s2101/a), div. B, title I, Sept. 30, 2023, [127 Stat. 81](/us/stat/127/81), which is not classified to the Code.
