---
title: "§ 1428. Surrender of canceled naturalization certificate"
identifier: "USC-T18-S1428"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section1428"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 767](/us/stat/62/767); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(K)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/K), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 1428. Surrender of canceled naturalization certificate

##### § 1428. Surrender of canceled naturalization certificate

Whoever, having in his possession or control a certificate of naturalization or citizenship or a copy thereof which has been canceled as provided by law, fails to surrender the same after at least sixty days’ notice by the appropriate court or the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Immigration, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 767](/us/stat/62/767); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(K)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/K), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on subsections (a) par. (31), (b), (d) of [section 746 of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s746), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Aliens and Nationality ([Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 876, § 346(a)](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch876/s346/a) par. (31), (b), (d), [54 Stat. 1167](/us/stat/54/1167)).

Subsection (b) of said [section 746 of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s746) is the authority for inserting “or a copy thereof” after “citizenship.”

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $5,000”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1551), Aliens and Nationality.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all other officers of Department of Justice and functions of all agencies and employees of such Department, with a few exceptions, transferred to Attorney General, with power vested, in him to authorize their performance or performance of any of his functions by any of such officers, agencies, and employees, by Reorg. Plan No. 2, of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3173, [64 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/64/1261), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
