---
title: "§ 60511. Careers training demonstration grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S60511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section60511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 115](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s115), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 677](/us/stat/122/677); [Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 502(d)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s502/d), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5229](/us/stat/132/5229).)"
---
# § 60511. Careers training demonstration grants

##### § 60511. Careers training demonstration grants

(a) Authority to make grants From amounts made available to carry out this section, the Attorney General shall make grants to States, units of local government, territories, nonprofit organizations, and Indian Tribes to provide career training, including subsidized employment, when part of a training program, to prisoners and reentering youth and adults.

(b) Use of funds Grants awarded under subsection (a) may be used for establishing a program to train prisoners for jobs and careers during the 3-year period before release from prison, jail, or a juvenile facility, as well as upon transition and reentry into the community.

(c) Priority consideration Priority consideration shall be given to any application under this section that—

(1) provides assessment of local demand for employees in the geographic areas to which offenders are likely to return;

(2) conducts individualized reentry career planning upon the start of incarceration or post-release employment planning for each offender served under the grant;

(3) demonstrates connections to employers within the local community; or

(4) tracks and monitors employment outcomes.

(d) Control of Internet access An entity that receives a grant under subsection (a) shall restrict access to the Internet by prisoners, as appropriate, to ensure public safety.

(e) Reports Not later than the last day of each fiscal year, an entity that receives a grant under subsection (a) during the preceding fiscal year shall submit to the Attorney General a report that describes and assesses the uses of such grant during the preceding fiscal year.

(f) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023.

*([Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 115](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s115), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 677](/us/stat/122/677); [Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 502(d)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s502/d), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5229](/us/stat/132/5229).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 17511 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s17511), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–391, § 502(d)(1)](/us/pl/115/391/s502/d/1), substituted “Careers” for “Technology careers” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 502(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/391/s502/d/2), substituted “nonprofit organizations, and Indian Tribes to provide career training, including subsidized employment, when part of a training program, to prisoners and reentering youth and adults” for “and Indian Tribes to provide technology career training to prisoners”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 502(d)(3)](/us/pl/115/391/s502/d/3), struck out “technology careers training” before “program” and “technology-based” before “jobs” and inserted “, as well as upon transition and reentry into the community” after “facility”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 502(d)(6)](/us/pl/115/391/s502/d/6), added subsec. (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (d).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 502(d)(5)](/us/pl/115/391/s502/d/5), redesignated subsec. (c) as (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 502(d)(4)](/us/pl/115/391/s502/d/4), (5), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e) and struck out former subsec. (e). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (e) read as follows: “There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 and 2010.”

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 502(d)(7)](/us/pl/115/391/s502/d/7), added subsec. (f).
