---
title: "§ 10453. Tribal Deputy"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10453"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10453"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2016](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2016), formerly § 2008, as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IX, § 907](/us/pl/109/162/tIX/s907), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3082](/us/stat/119/3082); renumbered § 2016 and amended [Pub. L. 109–271, § 7(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/109/271/s7/a/1/B), (C), (4), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 763](/us/stat/120/763), 764.)"
---
# § 10453. Tribal Deputy

##### § 10453. Tribal Deputy

(a) Establishment There is established in the Office on Violence Against Women a Deputy Director for Tribal Affairs.

(b) Duties

(1) 11 So in original. No par. (2) has been enacted. In general The Deputy Director shall under the guidance and authority of the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women—

(A) oversee and manage the administration of grants to and contracts with Indian tribes, tribal courts, tribal organizations, or tribal nonprofit organizations;

(B) ensure that, if a grant under this Act or a contract pursuant to such a grant is made to an organization to perform services that benefit more than 1 Indian tribe, the approval of each Indian tribe to be benefitted shall be a prerequisite to the making of the grant or letting of the contract;

(C) coordinate development of Federal policy, protocols, and guidelines on matters relating to violence against Indian women;

(D) advise the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women concerning policies, legislation, implementation of laws, and other issues relating to violence against Indian women;

(E) represent the Office on Violence Against Women in the annual consultations under section 20126 22 See References in Text note below. of this title;

(F) provide technical assistance, coordination, and support to other offices and bureaus in the Department of Justice to develop policy and to enforce Federal laws relating to violence against Indian women, including through litigation of civil and criminal actions relating to those laws;

(G) maintain a liaison with the judicial branches of Federal, State, and tribal governments on matters relating to violence against Indian women;

(H) support enforcement of tribal protection orders and implementation of full faith and credit educational projects and comity agreements between Indian tribes and States; and

(I) ensure that adequate tribal technical assistance that is developed and provided by entities having expertise in tribal law, customary practices, and Federal Indian law is made available to Indian tribes, tribal courts, tribal organizations, and tribal nonprofit organizations for all programs relating to violence against Indian women.

(c) Authority

(1) In general The Deputy Director shall ensure that a portion of the tribal set-aside funds from any grant awarded under this Act, the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (title IV of [Public Law 103–322](/us/pl/103/322); [108 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/108/1902)), or the Violence Against Women Act of 2000 (division B of [Public Law 106–386](/us/pl/106/386); [114 Stat. 1491](/us/stat/114/1491)) is used to enhance the capacity of Indian tribes to address the safety of Indian women.

(2) Accountability The Deputy Director shall ensure that some portion of the tribal set-aside funds from any grant made under this subchapter is used to hold offenders accountable through—

(A) enhancement of the response of Indian tribes to crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking against Indian women, including legal services for victims and Indian-specific offender programs;

(B) development and maintenance of tribal domestic violence shelters or programs for battered Indian women, including sexual assault services, that are based upon the unique circumstances of the Indian women to be served;

(C) development of tribal educational awareness programs and materials;

(D) support for customary tribal activities to strengthen the intolerance of an Indian tribe to violence against Indian women; and

(E) development, implementation, and maintenance of tribal electronic databases for tribal protection order registries.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2016](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2016), formerly § 2008, as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IX, § 907](/us/pl/109/162/tIX/s907), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3082](/us/stat/119/3082); renumbered § 2016 and amended [Pub. L. 109–271, § 7(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/109/271/s7/a/1/B), (C), (4), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 763](/us/stat/120/763), 764.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1)(B) and (c)(1), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197), known as the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

[Section 20126 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20126), referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(E), was in the original “section 903” and was translated as meaning [section 903 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s903), to reflect the probable intent of Congress, because there is no [section 903 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s903).

The Violence Against Women Act of 1994, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is title IV of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/108/1902). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

The Violence Against Women Act of 2000, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is div. B of [Pub. L. 106–386](/us/pl/106/386), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1491](/us/stat/114/1491). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2000 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796gg–11 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796gg–11), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (b)(1)(I). [Pub. L. 109–271, § 7(a)(4)](/us/pl/109/271/s7/a/4), inserted “that is developed and provided by entities having expertise in tribal law, customary practices, and Federal Indian law” after “technical assistance”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until the beginning of fiscal year 2007, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s4), set out as an Effective Date of 2006 Amendment note under [section 10261 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10261).
