---
title: "§ 2713. Employment assistance"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8206(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4649](/us/stat/134/4649).)"
---
# § 2713. Employment assistance

##### § 2713. Employment assistance

(a) In General.— In order to improve the accuracy and completeness of a certification or verification of job skills and experience required by [section 1143(a)(1) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1143/a/1), the Secretary shall—

(1) establish a database to record all training performed by members of the Coast Guard that may have application to employment in the civilian sector; and

(2) make unclassified information regarding such information available to States and other potential employers referred to in [section 1143(c) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1143/c) so that States and other potential employers may allow military training to satisfy licensing or certification requirements to engage in a civilian profession.

(b) Form of Certification or Verification.— The Secretary shall ensure that a certification or verification of job skills and experience required by [section 1143(a)(1) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1143/a/1) is rendered in such a way that States and other potential employers can confirm the accuracy and authenticity of the certification or verification.

(c) Requests by States.— A State may request that the Secretary confirm the accuracy and authenticity of a certification or verification of job skills and experience provided under [section 1143(c) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1143/c).

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8206(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4649](/us/stat/134/4649).)*
