---
title: "§ 2734g. Promoting transparency and accountability in the Department of State workforce"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2734g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2734g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. I, title XCIV, § 9404](/us/pl/117/263/dI/tXCIV/s9404), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3896](/us/stat/136/3896).)"
---
# § 2734g. Promoting transparency and accountability in the Department of State workforce

##### § 2734g. Promoting transparency and accountability in the Department of State workforce

(a) In general The Secretary should establish a mechanism to ensure that appointments or details of Department career employees to staff positions in the Office of the Secretary, the Office of the Deputy Secretary of State, the Office of the Counselor of the Department, any office of the Secretary’s Policy Planning Staff, and any office of an Under Secretary of State, and details to the National Security Council, are transparent, competitive, inclusive, and merit-based.

(b) Report Not later than 90 days after December 23, 2022, the Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees regarding the mechanism established pursuant to subsection (a).

(c) Availability The Secretary shall—

(1) use transparent, competitive, inclusive, and merit-based processes for appointments and details to the staff positions specified in subsection (a); and

(2) ensure that such positions are equally available to all employees of the Civil Service and the Foreign Service of the Department.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. I, title XCIV, § 9404](/us/pl/117/263/dI/tXCIV/s9404), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3896](/us/stat/136/3896).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. I, title XCIV, § 9405](/us/pl/117/263/dI/tXCIV/s9405), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3897](/us/stat/136/3897), provided that: “Nothing in this title [enacting this section] may be construed as altering existing law regarding merit system principles.”

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary”, “Department”, and “appropriate congressional committees” as used in this section, see [section 9002 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s9002), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
