---
title: "§ 3612. Declaration of foreign interests"
identifier: "USC-T44-S3612"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section3612"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5921(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5921/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3453](/us/stat/136/3453).)"
---
# § 3612. Declaration of foreign interests

##### § 3612. Declaration of foreign interests

(a) In General.— An independent assessment service that performs services described in section 3611 shall annually submit to the Administrator information relating to any foreign interest, foreign influence, or foreign control of the independent assessment service.

(b) Updates.— Not later than 48 hours after there is a change in foreign ownership or control of an independent assessment service that performs services described in section 3611, the independent assessment service shall submit to the Administrator an update to the information submitted under subsection (a).

(c) Certification.— The Administrator may require a representative of an independent assessment service to certify the accuracy and completeness of any information submitted under this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5921(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5921/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3453](/us/stat/136/3453).)*

#### Repeal of Section

For repeal of section by [section 5921(d)(1) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s5921/d/1), see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of Repeal

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5921(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5921/d/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3458](/us/stat/136/3458), provided that the repeal of this section is effective on the date that is 5 years after Dec. 23, 2022.

#### Construction

For rule of construction regarding [section 5921 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s5921), see [section 5921(e) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s5921/e), set out as a note under [section 3607 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s3607).
