---
title: "§ 5053. Exemptions"
identifier: "USC-T26-S5053"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section5053"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s201), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1334](/us/stat/72/1334); amended [Pub. L. 89–44, title VIII, § 807(b)](/us/pl/89/44/tVIII/s807/b), June 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 164](/us/stat/79/164); [Pub. L. 91–673, § 2](/us/pl/91/673/s2), Jan. 12, 1971, [84 Stat. 2056](/us/stat/84/2056); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834); [Pub. L. 95–458, § 2(b)(1)](/us/pl/95/458/"
---
# § 5053. Exemptions

##### § 5053. Exemptions

(a) Removals for export Beer may be removed from the brewery, without payment of tax, for export, in such containers and under such regulations, and on the giving of such notices, entries, and bonds and other security, as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe.

(b) Removals when unfit for beverage use When beer has become sour or damaged, so as to be incapable of use as such, a brewer may remove the same from his brewery without payment of tax, for manufacturing purposes, under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe.

(c) Removals for laboratory analysis Beer may be removed from the brewery, without payment of tax, for laboratory analysis, subject to such limitations and under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe.

(d) Removals for research, development, or testing Under such conditions and regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, beer may be removed from the brewery without payment of tax for use in research, development, or testing (other than consumer testing or other market analysis) of processes, systems, materials, or equipment relating to beer or brewery operations.

(e) Beer for personal or family use Subject to regulation prescribed by the Secretary, any adult may, without payment of tax, produce beer for personal or family use and not for sale. The aggregate amount of beer exempt from tax under this subsection with respect to any household shall not exceed—

For purposes of this subsection, the term “adult” means an individual who has attained 18 years of age, or the minimum age (if any) established by law applicable in the locality in which the household is situated at which beer may be sold to individuals, whichever is greater.

(1) 200 gallons per calendar year if there are 2 or more adults in such household, or

(2) 100 gallons per calendar year if there is only 1 adult in such household.

(f) Removal for use as distilling material Subject to such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, beer may be removed from a brewery without payment of tax to any distilled spirits plant for use as distilling material.

(g) Removals for use of foreign embassies, legations, etc.

(1) In general Subject to such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe—

Beer transferred to any customs bonded warehouse under subparagraph (A) shall be entered, stored, and accounted for in such warehouse under such regulations and bonds as the Secretary may prescribe, and may be withdrawn therefrom by such governments, organizations, and individuals free of tax under the same conditions and procedures as imported beer.

(A) beer may be withdrawn from the brewery without payment of tax for transfer to any customs bonded warehouse for entry pending withdrawal therefrom as provided in subparagraph (B), and

(B) beer entered into any customs bonded warehouse under subparagraph (A) may be withdrawn for consumption in the United States by, and for the official and family use of, such foreign governments, organizations, and individuals as are entitled to withdraw imported beer from such warehouses free of tax.

(2) Other rules to apply Rules similar to the rules of paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 5362(e) shall apply for purposes of this subsection.

(h) Removals for destruction Subject to such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, beer may be removed from the brewery without payment of tax for destruction.

(i) Removal as supplies for certain vessels and aircraft For exemption as to supplies for certain vessels and aircraft, see section 309 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended ([19 U.S.C. 1309](/us/usc/t19/s1309)).

*(Added [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s201), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1334](/us/stat/72/1334); amended [Pub. L. 89–44, title VIII, § 807(b)](/us/pl/89/44/tVIII/s807/b), June 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 164](/us/stat/79/164); [Pub. L. 91–673, § 2](/us/pl/91/673/s2), Jan. 12, 1971, [84 Stat. 2056](/us/stat/84/2056); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834); [Pub. L. 95–458, § 2(b)(1)](/us/pl/95/458/s2/b/1), Oct. 14, 1978, [92 Stat. 1255](/us/stat/92/1255); [Pub. L. 105–34, title XIV](/us/pl/105/34/tXIV), §§ 1414(b), 1418(a), 1419(a), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 1047–1049](/us/stat/111/1047-1049).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5053, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 612](/us/stat/68A/612), consisted of provisions similar to those comprising this section, prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859).

#### Amendments

1997—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 105–34, § 1414(b)](/us/pl/105/34/s1414/b), added subsec. (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (i).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 105–34, § 1418(a)](/us/pl/105/34/s1418/a), added subsec. (g).

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 105–34, § 1419(a)](/us/pl/105/34/s1419/a), added subsec. (h).

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 105–34, § 1414(b)](/us/pl/105/34/s1414/b), redesignated subsec. (f) as (i).

1978—Subsecs. (e), (f). [Pub. L. 95–458](/us/pl/95/458) added subsec. (e) and redesignated former subsec. (e) as (f).

1976—Subsecs. (a) to (d). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary” wherever appearing.

1971—Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 91–673](/us/pl/91/673) added subsec. (d) and redesignated former subsec. (d) as (e).

1965—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 89–44](/us/pl/89/44) struck out “to a foreign country” after “export”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1997 Amendment

[Pub. L. 105–34, title XIV, § 1414(d)](/us/pl/105/34/tXIV/s1414/d), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 1047](/us/stat/111/1047), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 5056 and 5222 of this title] shall take effect on the 1st day of the 1st calendar quarter that begins at least 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 5, 1997].”

[Pub. L. 105–34, title XIV, § 1418(b)](/us/pl/105/34/tXIV/s1418/b), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 1049](/us/stat/111/1049), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on the 1st day of the 1st calendar quarter that begins at least 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 5, 1997].”

[Pub. L. 105–34, title XIV, § 1419(b)](/us/pl/105/34/tXIV/s1419/b), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 1049](/us/stat/111/1049), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on the 1st day of the 1st calendar quarter that begins at least 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 5, 1997].”

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–458](/us/pl/95/458) effective on first day of first calendar month beginning more than 90 days after Oct. 14, 1978, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 95–458](/us/pl/95/458/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 5042 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5042).

#### Effective Date of 1971 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 91–673](/us/pl/91/673) effective on first day of first calendar month which begins more than 90 days after Jan. 12, 1971, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 91–673](/us/pl/91/673/s5), set out as a note under [section 5056 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5056).

#### Effective Date of 1965 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 89–44](/us/pl/89/44) effective July 1, 1965, see [section 807(c) of Pub. L. 89–44](/us/pl/89/44/s807/c), set out as a note under [section 5002 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5002).
