---
title: "§ 1380. Maintenance of statistics by the Department of Homeland Security"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1380"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1380"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title IV, § 414](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tIV/s414), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3352](/us/stat/118/3352).)"
---
# § 1380. Maintenance of statistics by the Department of Homeland Security

##### § 1380. Maintenance of statistics by the Department of Homeland Security

(a) In general The Department of Homeland Security shall maintain statistics regarding petitions filed, approved, extended, and amended with respect to nonimmigrants described in [section 1101(a)(15)(L) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101/a/15/L), including the number of such nonimmigrants who are classified on the basis of specialized knowledge and the number of nonimmigrants who are classified on the basis of specialized knowledge in order to work primarily at offsite locations.

(b) Applicability Subsection (a) shall apply to petitions filed on or after the effective date of this subtitle.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title IV, § 414](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tIV/s414), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3352](/us/stat/118/3352).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in subsec. (b), means subtitle A (§§ 411–417) of title IV of div. J of [Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447). For the effective date of subtitle A, see [section 417 of Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447/s417), set out as an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment note under [section 1184 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1184).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the L–1 Visa (Intracompany Transferee) Reform Act of 2004, and also as part of the L–1 Visa and H–1B Visa Reform Act and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005, and not as part of the Immigration and Nationality Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 8, 2004, see [section 417 of Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447/s417), set out as an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment note under [section 1184 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1184).
