---
title: "§ 5820. Coordination with environmental efforts"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5820"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5820"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–438, title I, § 110](/us/pl/93/438/tI/s110), Oct. 11, 1974, [88 Stat. 1242](/us/stat/88/1242).)"
---
# § 5820. Coordination with environmental efforts

##### § 5820. Coordination with environmental efforts

The Administrator is authorized to establish programs to utilize research and development performed by other Federal agencies to minimize the adverse environmental effects of energy projects. The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as other affected agencies and departments, shall cooperate fully with the Administrator in establishing and maintaining such programs, and in establishing appropriate interagency agreements to develop cooperative programs and to avoid unnecessary duplication.

*([Pub. L. 93–438, title I, § 110](/us/pl/93/438/tI/s110), Oct. 11, 1974, [88 Stat. 1242](/us/stat/88/1242).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Energy Research and Development Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of this title.

#### Research Applied to National Needs; Coordination of Energy Research and Development Activities

[Pub. L. 94–471, § 2(e)(3)](/us/pl/94/471/s2/e/3), Oct. 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 2053](/us/stat/90/2053), provided that: “In the conduct of the energy research and development activities under the ‘Research Applied to National Needs’ category, the National Science Foundation shall coordinate all new energy research project awards with the Administrator of the Energy Research and Development Administration or his designee.”

Similar provisions were contained in [Pub. L. 94–86, § 5](/us/pl/94/86/s5), Aug. 9, 1975, [89 Stat. 430](/us/stat/89/430).
