---
title: "§ 2102B. Adaptations to residences of veterans in rehabilitation programs"
identifier: "USC-T38-S2102B"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section2102B"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–177, § 1(a)](/us/pl/115/177/s1/a), June 1, 2018, [132 Stat. 1376](/us/stat/132/1376).)"
---
# § 2102B. Adaptations to residences of veterans in rehabilitation programs

##### § 2102B. Adaptations to residences of veterans in rehabilitation programs

(a) In General.— Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary may assist a veteran who is entitled to services and assistance under chapter 31 of this title and is pursuing a rehabilitation program under such chapter in acquiring such adaptations to such veteran’s residence as are determined necessary by the Secretary to accomplish the purposes of such rehabilitation program.

(b) Amount.—

(1) The aggregate amount of assistance available to a veteran under subsection (a) may not exceed $77,307. The Secretary may waive this limitation for a veteran if the Secretary determines a waiver is necessary for the rehabilitation program of the veteran.

(2) Effective on October 1 of each year (beginning in 2017), the Secretary shall increase the amount described in paragraph (1) by the percentage calculated under [section 2102(e)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s2102/e/2).

(3) Beginning on October 1, 2019, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a biennial report on the use of the waiver authority under paragraph (1).

(c) Regulations.— The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.

(d) Rehabilitation Program Defined.— In this section, the term “rehabilitation program” has the meaning given such term in [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3101).

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–177, § 1(a)](/us/pl/115/177/s1/a), June 1, 2018, [132 Stat. 1376](/us/stat/132/1376).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 115–177, § 1(b)](/us/pl/115/177/s1/b), June 1, 2018, [132 Stat. 1376](/us/stat/132/1376), provided that: “The Secretary may provide assistance under section 2102B of such title [meaning title 38, United States Code], as added by subsection (a), in advance of regulations by issuing notice specifying the criteria for the application, approval, and oversight processes relating to the provision of assistance under such section.”
