---
title: "§ 5514. Green and Gold Congressional Aide Program"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5514"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5514"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title I, § 114](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tI/s114), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 511](/us/stat/136/511).)"
---
# § 5514. Green and Gold Congressional Aide Program

##### § 5514. Green and Gold Congressional Aide Program

(a) Establishment There is established in the House of Representatives the Green and Gold Congressional Aide Program (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Program”) for veterans and Gold Star Families, under the direction of the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, under which an eligible individual may serve a 2-year fellowship in the office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) or House Officer.

(b) Placement An individual may serve a fellowship under the Program at the Member’s office in the District of Columbia or the Member’s office in the congressional district the Member represents. Fellows assigned to House Officers may serve where assigned.

(c) Exclusion of appointees for purposes of limit on number of employees in Member offices Any individual serving a fellowship under the Program in the office of a Member shall not be included in the determination of the number of employees employed by the Member under [section 5321(a) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5321/a).

(d) Regulations The Program shall be carried out in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Committee on House Administration.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2022 and each succeeding fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to carry out the Program.

(f) Effective date This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2022 and each succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title I, § 114](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tI/s114), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 511](/us/stat/136/511).)*
