---
title: "§ 290m–2. Community adjustment and investment program"
identifier: "USC-T22-S290m–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section290m–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–182, title V, § 543](/us/pl/103/182/tV/s543), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2167](/us/stat/107/2167); [Pub. L. 116–113, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/116/113/tVI/s601), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 78](/us/stat/134/78); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. O, title VI, § 601(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/260/dO/tVI/s601/a/1), (2), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2149](/us/stat/134/2149); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(163)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/163), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4323](/us/stat/136/4323).)"
---
# § 290m–2. Community adjustment and investment program

##### § 290m–2. Community adjustment and investment program

(a) The President

(1) The President may enter into an agreement with the Bank that facilitates implementation by the President of a program for community adjustment and investment in support of the Agreement pursuant to chapter II of the Cooperation Agreement (hereafter in this section referred to as the “community adjustment and investment program”).

(2) The President may receive from the Bank 10 percent of the paid-in capital actually paid to the Bank by the United States for the President to carry out, without further appropriations, through Federal agencies and their loan and loan guarantee programs, the community adjustment and investment program, pursuant to an agreement between the President and the Bank.

(3) The President may select one or more Federal agencies that make loans or guarantee the repayment of loans to assist in carrying out the community adjustment and investment program, and may transfer the funds received from the Bank to such agency or agencies for the purpose of assisting in carrying out the community adjustment and investment program.

(4)

(A) Each Federal agency selected by the President to assist in carrying out the community adjustment and investment program shall use the funds transferred to it by the President from the Bank to pay for the costs of direct and guaranteed loans, as defined in [section 661a of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s661a), and, as appropriate, other costs associated with such loans, all subject to the restrictions and limitations that apply to such agency’s existing loan or loan guarantee program.

(B) Funds transferred to an agency under subparagraph (A) shall be in addition to the amount of funds authorized in any appropriations Act to be expended by that agency for its loan or loan guarantee program.

(5) The President shall—

(A) establish guidelines for the loans and loan guarantees to be made under the community adjustment and investment program;

(B) endorse the grants made by the Bank for the community adjustment and investment program, as provided in Article I, section 1(b), and Article III, section 11(a), of Chapter II of the Cooperation Agreement; and

(C) endorse any loans or guarantees made by the Bank for the community adjustment and investment program, as provided in Article I, section 1(b), and Article III, section 6(a) and (c) of Chapter II of the Cooperation Agreement.

(b) Advisory Committee

(1) Establishment The President shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the Community Adjustment and Investment Program Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Advisory Committee”) in accordance with the provisions of chapter 10 of title 5.

(2) Membership

(A) In general The Advisory Committee shall consist of 9 members of the public, appointed by the President, who, collectively, represent—

(i) community groups whose constituencies include low-income families;

(ii) any scientific, professional, business, nonprofit, or public interest organization or association which is neither affiliated with, nor under the direction of, a government;

(iii) for-profit business interests; and

(iv) other appropriate entities with relevant expertise.

(B) Representation Each of the categories described in clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (A) shall be represented by no fewer than 1 and no more than 3 members of the Advisory Committee.

(3) Function It shall be the function of the Advisory Committee—

(A) to provide advice to the President regarding the implementation of the community adjustment and investment program, including advice on the guidelines to be established by the President for the loans and loan guarantees to be made pursuant to subsection (a)(4), advice on identifying the needs for adjustment assistance and investment in support of the goals and objectives of the Agreement, taking into account economic and geographic considerations, and advice on such other matters as may be requested by the President; and

(B) to review on a regular basis the operation of the community adjustment and investment program and provide the President with the conclusions of its review.

(4) Terms of members

(A) In general Each member of the Advisory Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the President.

(B) Chairperson The President shall appoint a chairperson from among the members of the Advisory Committee.

(C) Meetings The Advisory Committee shall meet at least annually and at such other times as requested by the President or the chairperson. A majority of the members of the Advisory Committee shall constitute a quorum.

(D) Reimbursement for expenses The members of the Advisory Committee may receive reimbursement for travel, per diem, and other necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, in accordance with chapter 10 of title 5.

(E) Staff and facilities The Advisory Committee may utilize the facilities and services of employees of any Federal agency without cost to the Advisory Committee, and any such agency is authorized to provide services as requested by the Committee.

(c) Ombudsman The President shall appoint an ombudsman to provide the public with an opportunity to participate in the carrying out of the community adjustment and investment program.

(1) Function It shall be the function of the ombudsman—

(A) to establish procedures for receiving comments from the general public on the operation of the community adjustment and investment program, to receive such comments, and to provide the President with summaries of the public comments; and

(B) to perform an independent inspection and programmatic audit of the operation of the community adjustment and investment program and to provide the President with the conclusions of its investigation and audit.

(2) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the President, or such agency as the President may designate, $25,000 for fiscal year 1995 and for each fiscal year thereafter, for the costs of the ombudsman.

(d) Reporting requirement The President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual report on the community adjustment and investment program (if any) that is carried out pursuant to this section. Each report shall state the amount of the loans made or guaranteed during the 12-month period ending on the day before the date of the report.

*([Pub. L. 103–182, title V, § 543](/us/pl/103/182/tV/s543), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2167](/us/stat/107/2167); [Pub. L. 116–113, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/116/113/tVI/s601), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 78](/us/stat/134/78); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. O, title VI, § 601(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/260/dO/tVI/s601/a/1), (2), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2149](/us/stat/134/2149); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(163)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/163), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4323](/us/stat/136/4323).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(163)(A)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/163/A), substituted “chapter 10 of title 5.” for “the Federal Advisory Committee Act.”

Subsec. (b)(4)(D). [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(163)(B)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/163/B), substituted “chapter 10 of title 5.” for “the Federal Advisory Committee Act.”

2020—[Pub. L. 116–260, § 601(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/260/s601/a/1), (2), provided that [section 601 of Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113/s601) does not apply to this section and revived the provisions of this section as if such section 601 had not been enacted. See below.

[Pub. L. 116–113, § 601](/us/pl/116/113/s601), which repealed this section effective on the date the USMCA entered into force (July 1, 2020), was made inapplicable to this section by section 601(a)(1), (2) of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2020 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) effective July 1, 2020, see [section 601(h) of div. O of Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260/dO/s601/h), set out as a note under [section 81c of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s81c), Customs Duties.

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Definitions

Agreement means the North American Free Trade Agreement, see [section 3301(1) of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s3301/1), Customs Duties.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under subsec. (a)(1) to (3) of this section delegated to Secretary of the Treasury and functions of President under subsecs. (a)(5) and (d) of this section delegated to Community Adjustment and Investment Program Finance Committee by sections 4 to 6 of Ex. Ord. No. 12916, May 13, 1994, 59 F.R. 25780, set out as a note under [section 3473 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s3473), Customs Duties.

#### Community Adjustment and Investment Program Finance Committee

For provisions establishing the Community Adjustment and Investment Program Finance Committee to assist in carrying out the program pursuant to subsec. (a)(3) of this section and to provide to the President advice and conclusions of reviews by the Advisory Committee pursuant to subsec. (b)(3) of this section and summaries of public comments or conclusions of investigations and audits by the ombudsman pursuant to subsec. (c)(1) of this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12916, §§ 7–9, May 13, 1994, 59 F.R. 25780, set out as a note under [section 3473 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s3473), Customs Duties.
