---
title: "§ 3202. Taking of fish and wildlife"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–487, title XIII, § 1314](/us/pl/96/487/tXIII/s1314), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2484](/us/stat/94/2484).)"
---
# § 3202. Taking of fish and wildlife

##### § 3202. Taking of fish and wildlife

(a) Responsibility and authority of State of Alaska Nothing in this Act is intended to enlarge or diminish the responsibility and authority of the State of Alaska for management of fish and wildlife on the public lands except as may be provided in subchapter II of this chapter, or to amend the Alaska constitution.

(b) Responsibility and authority of Secretary Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Act, nothing in this Act is intended to enlarge or diminish the responsibility and authority of the Secretary over the management of the public lands.

(c) Areas controlled; areas closed, exceptions The taking of fish and wildlife in all conservation system units, and in national conservation areas, national recreation areas, and national forests, shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act and other applicable State and Federal law. Those areas designated as national parks or national park system monuments in the State shall be closed to the taking of fish and wildlife, except that—

(1) notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Secretary shall administer those units of the National Park System, and those additions to existing units, established by this Act and which permit subsistence uses, to provide an opportunity for the continuance of such uses by local rural residents; and

(2) fishing shall be permitted by the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of this Act and other applicable State and Federal law.

*([Pub. L. 96–487, title XIII, § 1314](/us/pl/96/487/tXIII/s1314), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2484](/us/stat/94/2484).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 96–487](/us/pl/96/487), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2371](/us/stat/94/2371), known as the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3101) and Tables.
