---
title: "§ 10101. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T5-S10101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section10101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 621(a)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s621/a), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/120/1411).)"
---
# § 10101. Definitions

##### § 10101. Definitions

(1) the term “Agency” means the Federal Emergency Management Agency;

(2) the term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency;

(3) the term “appropriate committees of Congress” has the meaning given the term in section 602 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006;

(4) the term “Department” means the Department of Homeland Security; and

(5) the term “Surge Capacity Force” refers to the Surge Capacity Force, described under section 624 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 621(a)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s621/a), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/120/1411).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 602 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006, referred to in par. (3), is classified to [section 701 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s701), Domestic Security.

Section 624 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006, referred to in par. (5), is classified to [section 711 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s711), Domestic Security.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Any reference to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in title VI of [Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295) or an amendment by title VI to be considered to refer and apply to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency until Mar. 31, 2007, see [section 612(f)(2) of Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295/s612/f/2), set out as a note under [section 313 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s313), Domestic Security.
