---
title: "§ 255. Access by persons with disabilities"
identifier: "USC-T47-S255"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section255"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 255, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 75](/us/stat/110/75).)"
---
# § 255. Access by persons with disabilities

##### § 255. Access by persons with disabilities

(a) Definitions As used in this section—

(1) Disability The term “disability” has the meaning given to it by section 12102(2)(A) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 42.

(2) Readily achievable The term “readily achievable” has the meaning given to it by [section 12181(9) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s12181/9).

(b) Manufacturing A manufacturer of telecommunications equipment or customer premises equipment shall ensure that the equipment is designed, developed, and fabricated to be accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, if readily achievable.

(c) Telecommunications services A provider of telecommunications service shall ensure that the service is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, if readily achievable.

(d) Compatibility Whenever the requirements of subsections (b) and (c) are not readily achievable, such a manufacturer or provider shall ensure that the equipment or service is compatible with existing peripheral devices or specialized customer premises equipment commonly used by individuals with disabilities to achieve access, if readily achievable.

(e) Guidelines Within 18 months after February 8, 1996, the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board shall develop guidelines for accessibility of telecommunications equipment and customer premises equipment in conjunction with the Commission. The Board shall review and update the guidelines periodically.

(f) No additional private rights authorized Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize any private right of action to enforce any requirement of this section or any regulation thereunder. The Commission shall have exclusive jurisdiction with respect to any complaint under this section.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 255, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 75](/us/stat/110/75).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 12102 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s12102), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), was amended generally by [Pub. L. 110–325, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/325/s4/a), Sept. 25, 2008, [122 Stat. 3555](/us/stat/122/3555), and, as so amended, provisions formerly appearing in par. (2)(A) are now contained in par. (1)(A).
