---
title: "§ 70101. National multimodal freight policy"
identifier: "USC-T49-S70101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section70101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VIII, § 8001(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVIII/s8001/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1605](/us/stat/129/1605); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title I, § 21101(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tI/s21101/d/1), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 656](/us/stat/135/656).)"
---
# § 70101. National multimodal freight policy

##### § 70101. National multimodal freight policy

(a) In General.— It is the policy of the United States to maintain and improve the condition and performance of the National Multimodal Freight Network established under section 70103 to ensure that the Network provides a foundation for the United States to compete in the global economy and achieve the goals described in subsection (b).

(b) Goals.— The goals of the national multimodal freight policy are—

(1) to identify infrastructure improvements, policies, and operational innovations that—

(A) strengthen the contribution of the National Multimodal Freight Network to the economic competitiveness of the United States;

(B) reduce congestion and eliminate bottlenecks on the National Multimodal Freight Network; and

(C) increase productivity, particularly for domestic industries and businesses that create high-value jobs;

(2) to improve the safety, security, efficiency, and resiliency of multimodal freight transportation;

(3) to achieve and maintain a state of good repair on the National Multimodal Freight Network;

(4) to use innovation and advanced technology to improve the safety, efficiency, and reliability of the National Multimodal Freight Network;

(5) to improve the economic efficiency and productivity of the National Multimodal Freight Network;

(6) to improve the reliability of freight transportation;

(7) to improve the short- and long-distance movement of goods that—

(A) travel across rural areas between population centers;

(B) travel between rural areas and population centers; and

(C) travel from the Nation’s ports, airports, and gateways to the National Multimodal Freight Network;

(8) to improve the flexibility of States to support multi-State corridor planning and the creation of multi-State organizations to increase the ability of States to address multimodal freight connectivity;

(9) to reduce the adverse environmental impacts of freight movement on the National Multimodal Freight Network; and

(10) to pursue the goals described in this subsection in a manner that is not burdensome to State and local governments.

(c) Implementation.— The Assistant Secretary for Multimodal Freight, who shall be responsible for the oversight and implementation of the national multimodal freight policy, shall—

(1) carry out sections 70102 and 70103;

(2) assist with the coordination of modal freight planning; and

(3) identify interagency data sharing opportunities to promote freight planning and coordination.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VIII, § 8001(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVIII/s8001/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1605](/us/stat/129/1605); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title I, § 21101(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tI/s21101/d/1), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 656](/us/stat/135/656).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 70101 was transferred and renumbered as [section 50901 of Title 51](/us/usc/t51/s50901), National and Commercial Space Programs.

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) substituted “Assistant Secretary for Multimodal Freight” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy” in introductory provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.
