---
title: "§ 1062. Certain former spouses and surviving spouses"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1062"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1062"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–370, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/100/370/s1/c/1), July 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 841](/us/stat/102/841); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title VI, § 633(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tVI/s633/a), (c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 297](/us/stat/137/297).)"
---
# § 1062. Certain former spouses and surviving spouses

##### § 1062. Certain former spouses and surviving spouses

(a) Certain Unremarried Former Spouses.— The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to provide that an unremarried former spouse described in subparagraph (F)(i) of [section 1072(2) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1072/2) is entitled to use commissary stores and MWR retail facilities to the same extent and on the same basis as the surviving spouse of a retired member of the uniformed services.

(b) Certain Remarried Surviving Spouses.— The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to provide that a surviving spouse of a deceased member of the armed forces, regardless of the marital status of the surviving spouse, is entitled to use commissary stores and MWR retail facilities to the same extent and on the same basis as an unremarried surviving spouse of a member of the uniformed services.

(c) MWR Retail Facilities Defined.— In this section, the term “MWR retail facilities” has the meaning given that term in [section 1063 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1063).

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–370, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/100/370/s1/c/1), July 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 841](/us/stat/102/841); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title VI, § 633(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tVI/s633/a), (c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 297](/us/stat/137/297).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Section is based on [Pub. L. 97–252, title X, § 1005](/us/pl/97/252/tX/s1005), Sept. 8, 1982, [96 Stat. 737](/us/stat/96/737).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—[Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) inserted “and surviving spouses” at end of section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, substituted “use commissary stores and MWR retail facilities” for “commissary and exchange privileges”, and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title VI, § 633(b)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tVI/s633/b), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 297](/us/stat/137/297), provided that: “The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations under [section 1062(b) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1062/b), United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(3), not later than October 1, 2025.”
