---
title: "§ 10230. Other administrative provisions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10230"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10230"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 811](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s811), formerly § 817, as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/93/1212); renumbered § 811 and amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609B(f)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609B/f), (j), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2093](/us/stat/98/2093), 2096; [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330001(h)(12)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330001/h/12), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2139](/us/stat/108/2139).)"
---
# § 10230. Other administrative provisions

##### § 10230. Other administrative provisions

(a) Recordkeeping requirement; scope of disclosure; other sources of funds Each recipient of funds under this chapter shall keep such records as the Office of Justice Programs shall prescribe, including records which fully disclose the amount and disposition by such recipient of the funds, the total cost of the project or undertaking for which such funds are used, and the amount of that portion of the cost of the project or undertaking supplied by other sources, and such other records as will facilitate an effective audit.

(b) Access to records for audit and examination The Office of Justice Programs or any of its duly authorized representatives, shall have access for purpose of audit and examination of any books, documents, papers, and records of the recipients of funds under this chapter which in the opinion of the Office of Justice Programs may be related or pertinent to the grants, contracts, subcontracts, subgrants, or other arrangements referred to under this chapter.

(c) Audit and examination period after completion of program or project The Comptroller General of the United States or any of his duly authorized representatives, shall, until the expiration of three years after the completion of the program or project with which the assistance is used, have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, and records of recipients of Federal funds under this chapter which in the opinion of the Comptroller General may be related or pertinent to the grants, contracts, subcontracts, subgrants, or other arrangements referred to under this chapter.

(d) Recipients of assistance subject to provisions of section The provisions of this section shall apply to all recipients of assistance under this chapter, whether by direct grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under this chapter or by subgrant or subcontract from primary grantees or contractors under this chapter.

(e) Revolving fund for acquisition of stolen goods and property within Bureau of Justice Assistance There is hereby established within the Bureau of Justice Assistance a revolving fund for the purpose of supporting projects that will acquire stolen goods and property in an effort to disrupt illicit commerce in such goods and property. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any income or royalties generated from such projects together with income generated from any sale or use of such goods or property, where such goods or property are not claimed by their lawful owner, shall be paid into the revolving fund. Where a party establishes a legal right to such goods or property, the Administrator of the fund may in his discretion assert a claim against the property or goods in the amount of Federal funds used to purchase such goods or property. Proceeds from such claims shall be paid into the revolving fund. The Administrator is authorized to make disbursements by appropriate means, including grants, from the fund for the purpose of this section.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 811](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s811), formerly § 817, as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/93/1212); renumbered § 811 and amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609B(f)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609B/f), (j), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2093](/us/stat/98/2093), 2096; [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330001(h)(12)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330001/h/12), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2139](/us/stat/108/2139).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3789f of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3789f), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 811 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s811) was classified to [section 3789 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3789), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to repeal by [section 609B(e) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609B/e).

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “Bureau of Justice Assistance” for “Law Enforcement Assistance Administration”.

1984—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 98–473, § 609B(j)(1)](/us/pl/98/473/s609B/j/1), substituted “Office of Justice Programs” for “Office of Justice Assistance, Research, and Statistics” wherever appearing.

Subsecs. (d) to (f). [Pub. L. 98–473, § 609B(j)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/s609B/j/2), (3), redesignated subsecs. (e) and (f) as (d) and (e), respectively, and struck out former subsec. (d) relating to civil rights regulations and conforming changes of the regulations.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [section 609B(j) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609B/j) effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 609AA(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609AA/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
