---
title: "§ 6633. Media support services"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6633"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6633"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 7](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s7), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2222](/us/stat/121/2222).)"
---
# § 6633. Media support services

##### § 6633. Media support services

(a) Definitions In this section, the terms “national committee” and “political party” have the meaning given such terms in [section 30101 of title 52](/us/usc/t52/s30101).

(b) In general The official duties of employees of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under the Senate Daily Press Gallery, the Senate Periodical Press Gallery, the Senate Press Photographers Gallery, and the Senate Radio and Television Correspondents Gallery may include providing media support services with respect to the presidential nominating conventions of the national committees of political parties.

(c) Approval of Sergeant at Arms The terms and conditions under which employees perform official duties under subsection (b) shall be subject to the approval of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.

(d) Effective date This section shall apply to fiscal year 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 7](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s7), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2222](/us/stat/121/2222).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61f–13 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61f–13) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2008, which is div. H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008.
