---
title: "§ 15952. Federal-State regulatory coordination and assistance"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15952"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15952"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 392](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s392), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 749](/us/stat/119/749).)"
---
# § 15952. Federal-State regulatory coordination and assistance

##### § 15952. Federal-State regulatory coordination and assistance

(a) In general At the request of the Governor of a State, the Administrator may enter into a refinery permitting cooperative agreement with the State, under which each party to the agreement identifies steps, including timelines, that it will take to streamline the consideration of Federal and State environmental permits for a new refinery.

(b) Authority under agreement The Administrator shall be authorized to—

(1) accept from a refiner a consolidated application for all permits required from the Environmental Protection Agency, to the extent consistent with other applicable law;

(2) enter into memoranda of agreement with other Federal agencies to coordinate consideration of refinery applications and permits among Federal agencies; and

(3) enter into memoranda of agreement with a State, under which Federal and State review of refinery permit applications will be coordinated and concurrently considered, to the extent practicable.

(c) State assistance The Administrator is authorized to provide financial assistance to State governments to facilitate the hiring of additional personnel with expertise in fields relevant to consideration of refinery permits.

(d) Other assistance The Administrator is authorized to provide technical, legal, or other assistance to State governments to facilitate their review of applications to build new refineries.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 392](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s392), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 749](/us/stat/119/749).)*
