---
title: "§ 1059d. Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1059d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1059d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title III, § 317](/us/pl/89/329/tIII/s317), as added [Pub. L. 105–244, title III, § 303(f)](/us/pl/105/244/tIII/s303/f), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1641](/us/stat/112/1641); amended [Pub. L. 106–211, § 1(a)](/us/pl/106/211/s1/a), (b)(2), May 26, 2000, [114 Stat. 330](/us/stat/114/330); [Pub. L. 107–110, title VII, § 702(a)](/us/pl/107/110/tVII/s702/a), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1946](/us/stat/115/1946); [Pub. L. 110–315, title III, § 304](/us/pl/110/315/tIII/s304), Aug. 14, 2008, "
---
# § 1059d. Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions

##### § 1059d. Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions

(a) Program authorized The Secretary shall provide grants and related assistance to Alaska Native-serving institutions and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions to enable such institutions to improve and expand their capacity to serve Alaska Natives and Native Hawaiians.

(b) Definitions For the purpose of this section—

(1) the term “Alaska Native” has the meaning given the term in [section 7546 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7546);

(2) the term “Alaska Native-serving institution” means an institution of higher education that—

(A) is an eligible institution under [section 1058(b) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1058/b); and

(B) at the time of application, has an enrollment of undergraduate students that is at least 20 percent Alaska Native students;

(3) the term “Native Hawaiian” has the meaning given the term in [section 7517 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7517); and

(4) the term “Native Hawaiian-serving institution” means an institution of higher education which—

(A) is an eligible institution under [section 1058(b) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1058/b); and

(B) at the time of application, has an enrollment of undergraduate students that is at least 10 percent Native Hawaiian students.

(c) Authorized activities

(1) Types of activities authorized Grants awarded under this section shall be used by Alaska Native-serving institutions and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions to assist such institutions to plan, develop, undertake, and carry out activities to improve and expand such institutions’ capacity to serve Alaska Natives or Native Hawaiians.

(2) Examples of authorized activities Such programs may include—

(A) purchase, rental, or lease of scientific or laboratory equipment for educational purposes, including instructional and research purposes;

(B) renovation and improvement in classroom, library, laboratory, and other instructional facilities;

(C) support of faculty exchanges, and faculty development and faculty fellowships to assist in attaining advanced degrees in the faculty’s field of instruction;

(D) curriculum development and academic instruction;

(E) purchase of library books, periodicals, microfilm, and other educational materials;

(F) funds and administrative management, and acquisition of equipment for use in strengthening funds management;

(G) joint use of facilities such as laboratories and libraries;

(H) academic tutoring and counseling programs and student support services; and

(I) education or counseling services designed to improve the financial literacy and economic literacy of students or the students’ families.

(d) Application process

(1) Institutional eligibility Each Alaska Native-serving institution and Native Hawaiian-serving institution desiring to receive assistance under this section shall submit to the Secretary such enrollment data as may be necessary to demonstrate that the institution is an Alaska Native-serving institution or a Native Hawaiian-serving institution as defined in subsection (b), along with such other information and data as the Secretary may by regulation require.

(2) Applications Any institution which is determined by the Secretary to be an Alaska Native-serving institution or a Native Hawaiian-serving institution may submit an application for assistance under this section to the Secretary. The Secretary shall, to the extent possible, prescribe a simplified and streamlined format for such applications that takes into account the limited number of institutions that are eligible for assistance under this section. Such application shall include—

(A) a 5-year plan for improving the assistance provided by the Alaska Native-serving institution or the Native Hawaiian-serving institution to Alaska Native or Native Hawaiian students; and

(B) such other information and assurance as the Secretary may require.

(3) Special rules

(A) Eligibility No Alaskan Native-serving institution or Native Hawaiian-serving institution that receives funds under this section shall concurrently receive funds under other provisions of this part or part B.

(B) Exemption [Section 1059(d) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1059/d) shall not apply to institutions that are eligible to receive funds under this section.

(C) Distribution In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall, to the extent possible and consistent with the competitive process under which such grants are awarded, ensure maximum and equitable distribution among all eligible institutions.

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title III, § 317](/us/pl/89/329/tIII/s317), as added [Pub. L. 105–244, title III, § 303(f)](/us/pl/105/244/tIII/s303/f), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1641](/us/stat/112/1641); amended [Pub. L. 106–211, § 1(a)](/us/pl/106/211/s1/a), (b)(2), May 26, 2000, [114 Stat. 330](/us/stat/114/330); [Pub. L. 107–110, title VII, § 702(a)](/us/pl/107/110/tVII/s702/a), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1946](/us/stat/115/1946); [Pub. L. 110–315, title III, § 304](/us/pl/110/315/tIII/s304), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3169](/us/stat/122/3169); [Pub. L. 114–95, title IX, § 9215](/us/pl/114/95/tIX/s9215)(*oo*)(6), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2179](/us/stat/129/2179).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 9215](/us/pl/114/95/s9215)(*oo*)(6)(A), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 7546 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7546).

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 9215](/us/pl/114/95/s9215)(*oo*)(6)(B), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 7517 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7517).

2008—Subsec. (c)(2)(I). [Pub. L. 110–315](/us/pl/110/315) added subpar. (I).

2002—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 107–110, § 702(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/110/s702/a/1), substituted “section 7546” for “section 7938”.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 107–110, § 702(a)(2)](/us/pl/107/110/s702/a/2), substituted “section 7517” for “section 7912”.

2000—Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 106–211, § 1(a)](/us/pl/106/211/s1/a), inserted after first sentence “The Secretary shall, to the extent possible, prescribe a simplified and streamlined format for such applications that takes into account the limited number of institutions that are eligible for assistance under this section.”

Subsec. (d)(3). [Pub. L. 106–211, § 1(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/211/s1/b/2), added par. (3).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 106–211, § 1(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/211/s1/b/2), struck out heading and text of subsec. (e). Text read as follows: “For the purposes of this section, no Alaska Native-serving institution or Native Hawaiian-serving institution which is eligible for and receives funds under this section may concurrently receive other funds under this part or part B of this subchapter.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95) effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as a note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110) effective Jan. 8, 2002, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110/s5), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 1998 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).
