---
title: "§§ 601 to 605. Repealed. [Pub. L. 97–306, title III, § 311](/us/pl/97/306/tIII/s311), Oct. 14, 1982, [96 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/96/1442)"
identifier: "USC-T29-S601...605"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section601...605"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
---
# §§ 601 to 605. Repealed. [Pub. L. 97–306, title III, § 311](/us/pl/97/306/tIII/s311), Oct. 14, 1982, [96 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/96/1442)

##### §§ 601 to 605. Repealed. [Pub. L. 97–306, title III, § 311](/us/pl/97/306/tIII/s311), Oct. 14, 1982, [96 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/96/1442)

Section 601, [Pub. L. 90–83, § 6(a)](/us/pl/90/83/s6/a), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 221](/us/stat/81/221), provided that Secretary of Labor act on any application for an Exemplary Rehabilitation Certificate received under this chapter from any person discharged or dismissed under conditions other than honorable, or who received a general discharge, at least three years before date of receipt of such application.

Section 602, [Pub. L. 90–83, § 6(b)](/us/pl/90/83/s6/b), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 221](/us/stat/81/221), provided criteria for issuance of an Exemplary Rehabilitation Certificate and required notification of issuance of such certificate to Secretary of Defense and placement of certificate in military personnel file of person to whom it is issued.

Section 603, [Pub. L. 90–83, § 6(c)](/us/pl/90/83/s6/c), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 221](/us/stat/81/221), specified certain types of notarized statements that might be used in support of an application for an Exemplary Rehabilitation Certificate, and provided for independent investigations by Secretary of Labor and personal appearances by applicant or appearance by counsel before Secretary.

Section 604, [Pub. L. 90–83, § 6(d)](/us/pl/90/83/s6/d), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 221](/us/stat/81/221), provided that no benefits under any laws of United States (including but not limited to those relating to pensions, compensation, hospitalization, military pay and allowances, education, loan guarantees, retired pay, or other benefits based on military service) accrue to any person to whom an Exemplary Rehabilitation Certificate was issued under [section 602 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s602) unless he would have been entitled to those benefits under his original discharge or dismissal.

Section 605, [Pub. L. 90–83, § 6(e)](/us/pl/90/83/s6/e), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 221](/us/stat/81/221), provided that Secretary of Labor require national system of public employment offices established under chapter 4B of this title to accord special counseling and job development assistance to any person who had been discharged or dismissed under conditions other than honorable but who had been issued an Exemplary Rehabilitation Certificate.
