---
title: "§ 6410. Petition and review"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6410"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6410"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1999K](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1999K), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3921](/us/stat/104/3921).)"
---
# § 6410. Petition and review

##### § 6410. Petition and review

(a) Petition

(1) In general A person subject to an order issued under this chapter may file with the Secretary a petition—

(A) stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not established in accordance with law; and

(B) requesting a modification of the order or an exemption from the order.

(2) Hearings The petitioner shall be given the opportunity for a hearing on the petition, in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary.

(3) Ruling After the hearing, the Secretary shall make a ruling on the petition, which shall be final if in accordance with law.

(b) Review

(1) Commencement of action The district courts of the United States in any district in which the person who is a petitioner under subsection (a) resides or carries on business are hereby vested with jurisdiction to review the ruling on such person’s petition, if a complaint for that purpose is filed within 20 days after the date of the entry of a ruling by the Secretary under subsection (a).

(2) Process Service of process in such proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(3) Remands If the court determines that such ruling is not in accordance with law, the court shall remand the matter to the Secretary with directions either—

(A) to make such ruling as the court shall determine to be in accordance with law; or

(B) to take such further proceedings as, in the opinion of the court, the law requires.

*([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1999K](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1999K), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3921](/us/stat/104/3921).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
