---
title: "§ 701h–1. Contributions by States and political subdivisions for immediate use on authorized flood-control work; repayment"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701h–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701h–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Oct. 15, 1940, ch. 884](/us/act/1940-10-15/ch884), [54 Stat. 1176](/us/stat/54/1176); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1166(a)](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1166/a), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3797](/us/stat/132/3797).)"
---
# § 701h–1. Contributions by States and political subdivisions for immediate use on authorized flood-control work; repayment

##### § 701h–1. Contributions by States and political subdivisions for immediate use on authorized flood-control work; repayment

Whenever any State or political subdivision thereof shall offer to advance funds for a federally authorized water resources development project, the Secretary of the Army may in his discretion, receive such funds and expend the same in the immediate prosecution of such project. The Secretary of the Army is authorized and directed to repay without interest, if appropriations are provided by Congress for such purpose, the moneys so contributed and expended: *Provided, however*, That no repayment of funds which may be contributed for the purpose of meeting any conditions of local cooperation imposed by Congress, or under the authority of [section 701h of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701h), shall be made. For purposes of this section, the term “State” means the several States, the District of Columbia, the commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States, and Indian tribes (as defined in [section 5304(e) of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304/e)).

*([Oct. 15, 1940, ch. 884](/us/act/1940-10-15/ch884), [54 Stat. 1176](/us/stat/54/1176); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1166(a)](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1166/a), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3797](/us/stat/132/3797).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–270](/us/pl/115/270) substituted “a federally authorized water resources development project,” for “a flood-control project duly adopted and authorized by law”, “such project” for “such work”, and “if appropriations are provided by Congress for such purpose” for “from appropriations which may be provided by Congress for flood-control work” and inserted at end “For purposes of this Act, the term ‘State’ means the several States, the District of Columbia, the commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States, and Indian tribes (as defined in [section 5304(e) of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304/e)).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.
