---
title: "§ 2923. Child development center standards and inspections"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2923"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2923"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 113–281, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/113/281/tII/s214/a), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/128/3031), § 553; renumbered § 2923, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 117(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s117/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4230](/us/stat/132/4230); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8237(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4664](/us/stat/134/4664); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIV, § 11401(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXIV/s11401/b), "
---
# § 2923. Child development center standards and inspections

##### § 2923. Child development center standards and inspections

(a) Standards.— The Commandant shall require each Coast Guard child development center to meet standards of operation—

(1) that the Commandant considers appropriate to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the children and employees at the center; and

(2) necessary for accreditation by an appropriate national early childhood programs accrediting entity.

(b) Inspections.—

(1) In general.— Not less than twice annually, the Commandant shall ensure that each Coast Guard child development center is subject to an unannounced inspection.

(2) Responsibility for inspections.— Of the biannual inspections under paragraph (1)—

(A) 1 shall be carried out by a representative of the Coast Guard installation served by the Coast Guard child development center concerned; and

(B) 1 shall be carried out by a representative of the Coast Guard child development services work-life programs.

(c) National Reporting.—

(1) In general.— The Commandant shall maintain and publicize a means by which an individual can report, with respect to a Coast Guard child development center or a family home daycare—

(A) any suspected violation of—

(i) standards established under subsection (a); or

(ii) any other applicable law or standard;

(B) suspected child abuse or neglect; or

(C) any other deficiency.

(2) Anonymous reporting.— The Commandant shall ensure that an individual making a report pursuant to paragraph (1) may do so anonymously if so desired by the individual.

(3) Procedures.— The Commandant shall establish procedures for investigating reports made pursuant to paragraph (1).

*(Added [Pub. L. 113–281, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/113/281/tII/s214/a), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/128/3031), § 553; renumbered § 2923, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 117(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s117/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4230](/us/stat/132/4230); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8237(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4664](/us/stat/134/4664); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIV, § 11401(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXIV/s11401/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4106](/us/stat/136/4106).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Commandant shall require each Coast Guard child development center to meet standards that the Commandant considers appropriate to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the children and employees at the center.”

2021—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Commandant shall provide for regular and unannounced inspections of each Coast Guard child development center to ensure compliance with this section.”

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 553 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s553) as this section.
