---
title: "§ 605. Operation of snag boats on Upper Mississippi River"
identifier: "USC-T33-S605"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section605"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Aug. 11, 1888, ch. 860](/us/act/1888-08-11/ch860), §§ 1, 7, [25 Stat. 420](/us/stat/25/420), 421, 424; [Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2509, § 1](/us/act/1907-03-02/ch2509/s1), [34 Stat. 1102](/us/stat/34/1102); [Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 264, § 3](/us/act/1909-03-03/ch264/s3), [35 Stat. 817](/us/stat/35/817); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1076, § 1(15)](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1076/s1/15), [68 Stat. 967](/us/stat/68/967).)"
---
# § 605. Operation of snag boats on Upper Mississippi River

##### § 605. Operation of snag boats on Upper Mississippi River

For the purpose of securing the uninterrupted work of operating snag boats on the Upper Mississippi River, the Illinois River, from its mouth to Copperas Creek, and the Minnesota River and other tributaries of the Upper Mississippi River improved by the United States, the Secretary of the Army, upon the application of the Chief of Engineers, is authorized to draw his warrant or requisition from time to time upon the Secretary of the Treasury for such sums as may be necessary to do such work, not to exceed in the aggregate for each year the sum of $25,000.

*([Aug. 11, 1888, ch. 860](/us/act/1888-08-11/ch860), §§ 1, 7, [25 Stat. 420](/us/stat/25/420), 421, 424; [Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2509, § 1](/us/act/1907-03-02/ch2509/s1), [34 Stat. 1102](/us/stat/34/1102); [Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 264, § 3](/us/act/1909-03-03/ch264/s3), [35 Stat. 817](/us/stat/35/817); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1076, § 1(15)](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1076/s1/15), [68 Stat. 967](/us/stat/68/967).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from act, Aug. 11, 1888, as affected by acts Mar. 2, 1907, and Mar. 3, 1909.

Section 7 of act Aug. 11, 1888, also provided for the removal of snags from the Mississippi River. (See [section 604 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s604).)

The words “the sum of $25,000,” are substituted for “the amounts appropriated in this act for such purposes.” An appropriation of $25,000 for operating snag boats was made in section 1 of the act.

Act Mar. 2, 1907, made the provisions of the earlier Act concerning snag boats applicable to the Illinois river from its mouth to Copperas Creek.

Act Mar. 3, 1909, made such provisions applicable to “the Minnesota river and other tributaries of the upper Mississippi River now or heretofore improved by the United States.”

#### Amendments

1954—Act Aug. 30, 1954, repealed proviso requiring that an itemized statement of expenses incurred in operation of snag boats on the Upper Mississippi River, etc., as provided in this section, should accompany the annual report of the Chief of Engineers.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Appropriations

[Act June 26, 1934, ch. 756, § 2](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch756/s2), [48 Stat. 1225](/us/stat/48/1225), which was classified to section 725a of former Title 31, Money and Finance, repealed the permanent appropriation under the title “Operating snag and dredge boats on upper Mississippi, Illinois, and Minnesota Rivers (fiscal year) (8–962.60)” effective July 1, 1935, and provided that such portions of any Acts as make permanent appropriations to be expended under such account are amended so as to authorize, in lieu thereof, annual appropriations from the general fund of the Treasury in identical terms and in such amounts as now provided by the laws providing such permanent appropriations.
