---
title: "§ 300ff–134. Procedures for notification of exposure"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300ff–134"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300ff–134"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2695C, as added [Pub. L. 111–87, § 13](/us/pl/111/87/s13), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2901](/us/stat/123/2901).)"
---
# § 300ff–134. Procedures for notification of exposure

##### § 300ff–134. Procedures for notification of exposure

(a) Contents of notification to officer In making a notification required under [section 300ff–132 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–132) or [section 300ff–133(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–133/d/2), a medical facility shall provide—

(1) the name of the infectious disease involved; and

(2) the date on which the victim of the emergency involved was transported by emergency response employees to the medical facility involved.

(b) Manner of notification If a notification under [section 300ff–132 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–132) or [section 300ff–133(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–133/d/2) is mailed or otherwise indirectly made—

(1) the medical facility sending the notification shall, upon sending the notification, inform the designated officer to whom the notification is sent of the fact that the notification has been sent; and

(2) such designated officer shall, not later than 10 days after being informed by the medical facility that the notification has been sent, inform such medical facility whether the designated officer has received the notification.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2695C, as added [Pub. L. 111–87, § 13](/us/pl/111/87/s13), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2901](/us/stat/123/2901).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as if enacted on Sept. 30, 2009, see [section 2(a)(3)(B) of Pub. L. 111–87](/us/pl/111/87/s2/a/3/B), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment; Revival of Section note under [section 300ff–11 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–11).
