---
title: "§ 2161. Applicability of other laws; definitions"
identifier: "USC-T48-S2161"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section2161"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–187, title III, § 301](/us/pl/114/187/tIII/s301), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 577](/us/stat/130/577).)"
---
# § 2161. Applicability of other laws; definitions

##### § 2161. Applicability of other laws; definitions

(a) Sections applicable to cases under this subchapter Sections 101 (except as otherwise provided in this section), 102, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 112, 333, 344, 347(b), 349, 350(b), 351, 361, 362, 364(c), 364(d), 364(e), 364(f), 365, 366, 501, 502, 503, 504, 506, 507(a)(2), 509, 510, 524(a)(1), 524(a)(2), 544, 545, 546, 547, 548, 549(a), 549(c), 549(d), 550, 551, 552, 553, 555, 556, 557, 559, 560, 561, 562, 902 (except as otherwise provided in this section), 922, 923, 924, 925, 926, 927, 928, 942, 944, 945, 946, 1102, 1103, 1109, 1111(b), 1122, 1123(a)(1), 1123(a)(2), 1123(a)(3), 1123(a)(4), 1123(a)(5), 1123(b), 1123(d), 1124, 1125, 1126(a), 1126(b), 1126(c), 1126(e), 1126(f), 1126(g), 1127(d), 1128, 1129(a)(2), 1129(a)(3), 1129(a)(6), 1129(a)(8), 1129(a)(10), 1129(b)(1), 1129(b)(2)(A), 1129(b)(2)(B), 1142(b), 1143, 1144, 1145, and 1146(a) of title 11 apply in a case under this subchapter and [section 930 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s930) applies in a case under this subchapter; however, section 930 shall not apply in any case during the first 120 days after the date on which such case is commenced under this subchapter.

(b) Meanings of terms A term used in a section of title 11, made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a), has the meaning given to the term for the purpose of the applicable section, unless the term is otherwise defined in this subchapter.

(c) Definitions In this subchapter:

(1) Affiliate The term “affiliate” means, in addition to the definition made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a)—

(A) for a territory, any territorial instrumentality; and

(B) for a territorial instrumentality, the governing territory and any of the other territorial instrumentalities of the territory.

(2) Debtor The term “debtor” means the territory or covered territorial instrumentality concerning which a case under this subchapter has been commenced.

(3) Holder of a claim or interest The term “holder of a claim or interest”, when used in [section 1126 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s1126), made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a)—

(A) shall exclude any Issuer or Authorized Instrumentality of the Territory Government Issuer (as defined under subchapter VI of this chapter) or a corporation, trust or other legal entity that is controlled by the Issuer or an Authorized Territorial Instrumentality of the Territory Government Issuer, provided that the beneficiaries of such claims, to the extent they are not referenced in this subparagraph, shall not be excluded, and that, for each excluded trust or other legal entity, the court shall, upon the request of any participant or beneficiary of such trust or entity, at any time after the commencement of the case, order the appointment of a separate committee of creditors pursuant to [section 1102(a)(2) of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s1102/a/2); and

(B) with reference to Insured Bonds, shall mean the monoline insurer insuring such Insured Bond to the extent such insurer is granted the right to vote Insured Bonds for purposes of directing remedies or consenting to proposed amendments or modifications as provided in the applicable documents pursuant to which such Insured Bond was issued and insured.

(4) Insured Bond The term “Insured Bond” means a bond subject to a financial guarantee or similar insurance contract, policy and/or surety issued by a monoline insurer.

(5) Property of the estate The term “property of the estate”, when used in a section of title 11 made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a), means property of the debtor.

(6) State The term “State” 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. when used in a section of title 11 made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a) 1 means State or territory when used in reference to the relationship of a State to the municipality of the State or the territorial instrumentality of a territory, as applicable.

(7) Trustee The term “trustee”, when used in a section of title 11 made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a), means the Oversight Board, except as provided in [section 926 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s926). The term “trustee” as described in this paragraph does not mean the U.S. Trustee, an official of the United States Trustee Program, which is a component of the United States Department of Justice.

(d) Reference to subchapter Solely for purposes of this subchapter, a reference to “this title”, “this chapter”, or words of similar import in a section of title 11 made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a) or to “this title”, “title 11”, “Chapter 9”, “Chapter 11”, “the Code”, or words of similar import in the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure made applicable in a case under this subchapter shall be deemed to be a reference to this subchapter.

(e) Substantially similar In determining whether claims are “substantially similar” for the purpose of [section 1122 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s1122), made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a), the Oversight Board shall consider whether such claims are secured and whether such claims have priority over other claims.

(f) Operative clauses A section made applicable in a case under this subchapter by subsection (a) that is operative if the business of the debtor is authorized to be operated is operative in a case under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 114–187, title III, § 301](/us/pl/114/187/tIII/s301), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 577](/us/stat/130/577).)*
