---
title: "§ 18121. Implementation funding"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18121"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18121"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–152, title I, § 1005](/us/pl/111/152/tI/s1005), Mar. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/124/1036).)"
---
# § 18121. Implementation funding

##### § 18121. Implementation funding

(a) In general There is hereby established a Health Insurance Reform Implementation Fund (referred to in this section as the “Fund”) within the Department of Health and Human Services to carry out the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and this Act (and the amendments made by such Acts).

(b) Funding There is appropriated to the Fund, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000 for Federal administrative expenses to carry out such Act 11 So in original. Probably should be “Acts”. (and the amendments made by such Acts).

*([Pub. L. 111–152, title I, § 1005](/us/pl/111/152/tI/s1005), Mar. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/124/1036).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 119](/us/stat/124/119). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 18001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18001) and Tables.

This Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 111–152](/us/pl/111/152), Mar. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 1029](/us/stat/124/1029), known as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2010 Amendment note under [section 1305 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and not as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which comprises this chapter.
