---
title: "§ 3733. Suspension of this subchapter in time of war or national emergency"
identifier: "USC-T14-S3733"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section3733"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–322, § 1](/us/pl/96/322/s1), Aug. 4, 1980, [94 Stat. 1007](/us/stat/94/1007), § 722; renumbered § 3733, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 118(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s118/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4233](/us/stat/132/4233).)"
---
# § 3733. Suspension of this subchapter in time of war or national emergency

##### § 3733. Suspension of this subchapter in time of war or national emergency

In time of war or national emergency declared by Congress, the President may suspend the operation of this subchapter or any part hereof. If this subchapter or any part hereof is suspended by the President, prior to placing the suspended provision in operation, the President shall by regulation, in so far as practicable, adjust the grades of Reserve officers in the same manner as adjustments in grade are made for Regular officers.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–322, § 1](/us/pl/96/322/s1), Aug. 4, 1980, [94 Stat. 1007](/us/stat/94/1007), § 722; renumbered § 3733, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 118(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s118/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4233](/us/stat/132/4233).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 778 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s778) prior to the complete revision of former chapter 21 of this title by [Pub. L. 96–322](/us/pl/96/322).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 722 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s722) as this section.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority

Authority of President under this section to suspend the operation of this subchapter concerning officers of the Coast Guard Reserve without the approval, ratification, or other action by the President during a time of war or national emergency delegated to Secretary of Homeland Security by Ex. Ord. No. 14106, § 2(b), Aug. 14, 2023, 88 F.R. 55905, set out in a note under [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2101).

Authority of President under this section as invoked by section 2 of Ex. Ord. No. 13223, Sept. 14, 2001, 66 F.R. 48201, as amended, delegated to Secretary of Homeland Security by section 5 of Ex. Ord. No. 13223, set out as a note under [section 12302 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s12302), Armed Forces.
