---
title: "§ 6807. Expenditures"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6807"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6807"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 808](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s808), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3388](/us/stat/118/3388); [Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7116(h)](/us/pl/111/11/tVII/s7116/h), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1203](/us/stat/123/1203); [Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 311(d)](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s311/d), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2897](/us/stat/138/2897).)"
---
# § 6807. Expenditures

##### § 6807. Expenditures

(a) Use of fees at specific site or area Amounts available for expenditure at a specific site or area—

(1) shall be accounted for separately from the amounts collected;

(2) may be distributed agency-wide; and

(3) shall be used only for—

(A) repair, maintenance, and facility enhancement related directly to visitor enjoyment, visitor access, and health and safety;

(B) interpretation, visitor information, visitor service, visitor needs assessments, and signs;

(C) habitat restoration directly related to wildlife-dependent recreation that is limited to hunting, fishing, wildlife observation, or photography;

(D) law enforcement related to public use and recreation;

(E) direct operating or capital costs associated with the recreation fee program;

(F) a fee management agreement established under [section 6805(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6805/a) or a visitor reservation service;

(G) the processing of special recreation permit applications and administration of special recreation permits; and

(H) the improvement of the operation of the special recreation permit program under [section 6802(h) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802/h).

(b) Limitation on use of fees The Secretary may not use any recreation fees for biological monitoring on Federal recreational lands and waters under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 [[16 U.S.C. 1531](/us/usc/t16/s1531) et seq.] for listed or candidate species.

(c) Administration, overhead, and indirect costs The Secretary may use not more than an average of 15 percent of total revenues collected under this chapter for administration, overhead, and indirect costs related to the recreation fee program by that Secretary.

(d) Transitional exception Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Secretary may use amounts available in the special account of a Federal land management agency to supplement administration and marketing costs associated with—

(1) the National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass during the 5-year period beginning on the date the joint guidelines are issued under [section 6804(a)(7) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804/a/7); and

(2) a regional multientity pass authorized [section 6804(d) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804/d) during the 5-year period beginning on the date the regional multientity pass agreement for that recreation pass takes effect.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 808](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s808), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3388](/us/stat/118/3388); [Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7116(h)](/us/pl/111/11/tVII/s7116/h), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1203](/us/stat/123/1203); [Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 311(d)](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s311/d), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2897](/us/stat/138/2897).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Endangered Species Act of 1973, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 93–205](/us/pl/93/205), Dec. 28, 1973, [87 Stat. 884](/us/stat/87/884), which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1531 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1531 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1531) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (a)(3)(F). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(d)(2)(B)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/d/2/B), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6805(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6805/a) and substituted semicolon for period at end.

Subsec. (a)(3)(G), (H). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(d)(2)(A)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/d/2/A), (C), added subpars. (G) and (H).

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(d)(1)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/d/1), made technical amendment to references in original act which appear in text of subsec. (c) and in introductory provisions of subsec. (d) as references to this chapter.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(d)(3)(A)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/d/3/A), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6804(a)(7) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804/a/7).

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(d)(3)(B)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/d/3/B), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6804(d) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804/d).

2009—Subsec. (a)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11), which directed technical amendment in subsec. (a)(1)(F) to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6805(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6805/a), could not be executed because there is no subsec. (a)(1)(F) of this section.
