---
title: "§ 1101. Congressional findings"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–458, title I, § 112](/us/pl/100/458/tI/s112), Oct. 1, 1988, [102 Stat. 2172](/us/stat/102/2172).)"
---
# § 1101. Congressional findings

##### § 1101. Congressional findings

(1) Senator John C. Stennis of the State of Mississippi has served his State and country with distinction for more than 60 years as a public servant, including service in the United States Senate for a period of 41 years.

(2) Senator Stennis has a distinguished record as a United States Senator, including service as the first Chairman of the Select Committee on Ethics, Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services, Chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, and President pro tempore of the Senate.

(3) Senator Stennis has long maintained a special interest in and devotion to the development of leadership and excellence in public service.

(4) There is a compelling need to encourage outstanding young people to pursue public service on a career basis and to provide public service leadership training opportunities for individuals serving in State and local governments and for individuals serving as employees of Members of Congress.

(5) It would be a fitting tribute to Senator Stennis and to his leadership, integrity, and years of devoted public service to establish in his name a center for the training and development of leadership and excellence in public service.

*([Pub. L. 100–458, title I, § 112](/us/pl/100/458/tI/s112), Oct. 1, 1988, [102 Stat. 2172](/us/stat/102/2172).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 100–458, title I, § 111](/us/pl/100/458/tI/s111), Oct. 1, 1988, [102 Stat. 2172](/us/stat/102/2172), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle B (§§ 111–121) of title I of [Pub. L. 100–458](/us/pl/100/458), enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act’.”
