---
title: "§ 6339. Legal effect of certificate of sale of personal property and deed of real property"
identifier: "USC-T26-S6339"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section6339"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 788](/us/stat/68A/788); [Pub. L. 85–866, title I, § 79](/us/pl/85/866/tI/s79), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1662](/us/stat/72/1662); [Pub. L. 89–719, title I, § 104(g)](/us/pl/89/719/tI/s104/g), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1137](/us/stat/80/1137); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)"
---
# § 6339. Legal effect of certificate of sale of personal property and deed of real property

##### § 6339. Legal effect of certificate of sale of personal property and deed of real property

(a) Certificate of sale of property other than real property In all cases of sale pursuant to section 6335 of property (other than real property), the certificate of such sale—

(1) As evidence Shall be prima facie evidence of the right of the officer to make such sale, and conclusive evidence of the regularity of his proceedings in making the sale; and

(2) As conveyances Shall transfer to the purchaser all right, title, and interest of the party delinquent in and to the property sold; and

(3) As authority for transfer of corporate stock If such property consists of stocks, shall be notice, when received, to any corporation, company, or association of such transfer, and shall be authority to such corporation, company, or association to record the transfer on its books and records in the same manner as if the stocks were transferred or assigned by the party holding the same, in lieu of any original or prior certificate, which shall be void, whether canceled or not; and

(4) As receipts If the subject of sale is securities or other evidences of debt, shall be a good and valid receipt to the person holding the same, as against any person holding or claiming to hold possession of such securities or other evidences of debt; and

(5) As authority for transfer of title to motor vehicle If such property consists of a motor vehicle, shall be notice, when received, to any public official charged with the registration of title to motor vehicles, of such transfer and shall be authority to such official to record the transfer on his books and records in the same manner as if the certificate of title to such motor vehicle were transferred or assigned by the party holding the same, in lieu of any original or prior certificate, which shall be void, whether canceled or not.

(b) Deed of real property In the case of the sale of real property pursuant to section 6335—

(1) Deed as evidence The deed of sale given pursuant to section 6338 shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated; and

(2) Deed as conveyance of title If the proceedings of the Secretary as set forth have been substantially in accordance with the provisions of law, such deed shall be considered and operate as a conveyance of all the right, title, and interest the party delinquent had in and to the real property thus sold at the time the lien of the United States attached thereto.

(c) Effect of junior encumbrances A certificate of sale of personal property given or a deed to real property executed pursuant to section 6338 shall discharge such property from all liens, encumbrances, and titles over which the lien of the United States with respect to which the levy was made had priority.

(d) Cross references

(1) For distribution of surplus proceeds, see section 6342(b).

(2) For judicial procedure with respect to surplus proceeds, see section 7426(a)(2).

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 788](/us/stat/68A/788); [Pub. L. 85–866, title I, § 79](/us/pl/85/866/tI/s79), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1662](/us/stat/72/1662); [Pub. L. 89–719, title I, § 104(g)](/us/pl/89/719/tI/s104/g), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1137](/us/stat/80/1137); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1976—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary”.

1966—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 89–719](/us/pl/89/719) added subsecs. (c) and (d).

1958—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 85–866](/us/pl/85/866) substituted “as” for “of” after “Deed” in heading.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1966 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 89–719](/us/pl/89/719) applicable after Nov. 2, 1966, regardless of when title or lien of United States arose or when lien or interest of another person was acquired, with certain exceptions, see section 114(a)–(c) of [Pub. L. 89–719](/us/pl/89/719), set out as a note under [section 6323 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s6323).

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 85–866](/us/pl/85/866) effective Aug. 17, 1954, see [section 1(c)(2) of Pub. L. 85–866](/us/pl/85/866/s1/c/2), set out as a note under [section 165 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s165).
