---
title: "§ 723. Support of civil authorities: requirement for use of members of the Armed Forces and Federal law enforcement personnel"
identifier: "USC-T10-S723"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section723"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, § 1064(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tX/s1064/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3860](/us/stat/134/3860); amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title X, § 1043(a)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tX/s1043/a/1), (b)(1), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/139/1037).)"
---
# § 723. Support of civil authorities: requirement for use of members of the Armed Forces and Federal law enforcement personnel

##### § 723. Support of civil authorities: requirement for use of members of the Armed Forces and Federal law enforcement personnel

(a) Response to Civil Disturbances.— Whenever a member of the armed forces (including the National Guard) or Federal law enforcement personnel provide support to Federal authorities to respond to a civil disturbance, each individual employed in the capacity of providing such support shall visibly display—

(1) the individual’s name or other individual identifier that is unique to that individual; and

(2) the name of the armed force, Federal entity, or other organization by which such individual is employed.

(b) Support to Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies by Members of the Armed Forces.— Whenever a member of the armed forces (including the National Guard) provides support to civilian law enforcement agencies, each such member providing such support shall visibly display the name of the armed force in which such member operates.

(c) Exception.— The requirements under subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to individuals referred to in any such subsection who—

(1) do not wear a uniform or other distinguishing clothing or equipment in the regular performance of their official duties; or

(2) are engaged in undercover operations in the regular performance of their official duties.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, § 1064(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tX/s1064/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3860](/us/stat/134/3860); amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title X, § 1043(a)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tX/s1043/a/1), (b)(1), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/139/1037).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 119–60, § 1043(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s1043/b/1), substituted “civil authorities” for “Federal authorities in response to civil disturbances” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 1043(a)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s1043/a/1), substituted “Response to Civil Disturbances” for “Requirement” in heading.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 1043(a)(3)](/us/pl/119/60/s1043/a/3), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 1043(a)(2)](/us/pl/119/60/s1043/a/2), (4), redesignated subsec. (b) as (c) and, in introductory provisions, substituted “requirements under subsections (a) and (b)” for “requirement under subsection (a)” and “any such subsection” for “such subsection”.
