---
title: "§ 725. Regulations, etc., by Secretary of the Interior"
identifier: "USC-T16-S725"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section725"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 7, 1924, ch. 346, § 5](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch346/s5), [43 Stat. 651](/us/stat/43/651); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(e), (f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)"
---
# § 725. Regulations, etc., by Secretary of the Interior

##### § 725. Regulations, etc., by Secretary of the Interior

Except where it is specifically provided otherwise, the Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe such regulations, exercise such functions, and perform such duties as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.

*([June 7, 1924, ch. 346, § 5](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch346/s5), [43 Stat. 651](/us/stat/43/651); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(e), (f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of the Interior related to compliance with approval to cross national wildlife refuges under this chapter with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(e), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, [93 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/93/1373), 1376, effective July 1, 1979, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by [section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486/s3012/b), set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e), Commerce and Trade. Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by [section 720d(f) of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s720d/f).

Transfer of functions of Secretary of Agriculture and Secretary of Commerce to Secretary of the Interior by Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 723 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s723).
