---
title: "§ 6131. Appointment of employees by Senate Majority and Minority Leaders; compensation"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–26, title I](/us/pl/95/26/tI), May 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 80](/us/stat/91/80).)"
---
# § 6131. Appointment of employees by Senate Majority and Minority Leaders; compensation

##### § 6131. Appointment of employees by Senate Majority and Minority Leaders; compensation

Effective April 1, 1977, the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader are each authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such employees as they deem appropriate: *Provided*, That the gross compensation paid to such employees shall not exceed $191,700 each fiscal year for each Leader.

*([Pub. L. 95–26, title I](/us/pl/95/26/tI), May 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 80](/us/stat/91/80).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61h–4 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61h–4) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1977.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Managing Political Fund Activity

[Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title XVII, § 1701](/us/pl/116/94/dP/tXVII/s1701), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3220](/us/stat/133/3220), provided that: “The Majority Leader and the Minority Leader may each designate up to 2 employees of their respective leadership office staff as designees referred to in the second sentence of paragraph 1 of rule XLI of the Standing Rules of the Senate.”

#### Increases in Compensation

Increases in compensation for Senate officers and employees under authority of Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970 ([Pub. L. 91–656](/us/pl/91/656)), see Salary Directives of President pro tempore of the Senate, set out as notes under [section 4571 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4571).
