---
title: "§ 20989. Fugitive Safe Surrender"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20989"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20989"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 632](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s632), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 641](/us/stat/120/641).)"
---
# § 20989. Fugitive Safe Surrender

##### § 20989. Fugitive Safe Surrender

(a) Findings Congress finds the following:

(1) Fugitive Safe Surrender is a program of the United States Marshals Service, in partnership with public, private, and faith-based organizations, which temporarily transforms a church into a courthouse, so fugitives can turn themselves in, in an atmosphere where they feel more comfortable to do so, and have nonviolent cases adjudicated immediately.

(2) In the 4-day pilot program in Cleveland, Ohio, over 800 fugitives turned themselves in. By contrast, a successful Fugitive Task Force sweep, conducted for 3 days after Fugitive Safe Surrender, resulted in the arrest of 65 individuals.

(3) Fugitive Safe Surrender is safer for defendants, law enforcement, and innocent bystanders than needing to conduct a sweep.

(4) Based upon the success of the pilot program, Fugitive Safe Surrender should be expanded to other cities throughout the United States.

(b) Establishment The United States Marshals Service shall establish, direct, and coordinate a program (to be known as the “Fugitive Safe Surrender Program”), under which the United States Marshals Service shall apprehend Federal, State, and local fugitives in a safe, secure, and peaceful manner to be coordinated with law enforcement and community leaders in designated cities throughout the United States.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the United States Marshals Service to carry out this section—

(1) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;

(2) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2008; and

(3) $8,000,000 for fiscal year 2009.

(d) Other existing applicable law Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit any existing authority under any other provision of Federal or State law for law enforcement agencies to locate or apprehend fugitives through task forces or any other means.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 632](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s632), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 641](/us/stat/120/641).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16989 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16989), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
