---
title: "§ 50107. Repayment"
identifier: "USC-T34-S50107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section50107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609S](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609S), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2106](/us/stat/98/2106).)"
---
# § 50107. Repayment

##### § 50107. Repayment

(a) Violation of conditions; amount If Federal law enforcement assistance provided under this chapter is used by the recipient of such assistance in violation of section 50104 11 See References in Text note below. of this title or for any purpose other than the purpose for which it is provided, then such recipient shall promptly repay to the Attorney General an amount equal to the value of such assistance.

(b) Civil action The Attorney General may bring a civil action in an appropriate United States district court to recover any amount required to be repaid under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609S](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609S), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2106](/us/stat/98/2106).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 50104 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50104), referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original a reference to “section 554”, and was translated as if it had been a reference to [section 609P of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609P), which is classified to [section 50104 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50104) to reflect the probable intent of Congress as manifested in earlier versions of Emergency Federal Law Enforcement Assistance provisions introduced in the Congress. [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) does not contain a section 554.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 10507 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10507), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
