---
title: "§ 693. Inspection of dairy products for export"
identifier: "USC-T21-S693"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section693"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([May 23, 1908, ch. 192](/us/act/1908-05-23/ch192), [35 Stat. 254](/us/stat/35/254).)"
---
# § 693. Inspection of dairy products for export

##### § 693. Inspection of dairy products for export

The act of March 3, 1891, as amended, for the inspection of live cattle and products thereof, shall be deemed to include dairy products intended for exportation to any foreign country, and the Secretary of Agriculture may apply, under rules and regulations to be prescribed by him, the provisions of said act for inspection and certification appropriate for ascertaining the purity and quality of such products, and may cause the same to be so marked, stamped, or labeled as to secure their identity and make known in the markets of foreign countries to which they may be sent from the United States their purity, quality, and grade; and all the provisions of said act relating to live cattle and products thereof for export shall apply to dairy products so inspected and certified.

*([May 23, 1908, ch. 192](/us/act/1908-05-23/ch192), [35 Stat. 254](/us/stat/35/254).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of March 3, 1891, referred to in text, is [act Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 555](/us/act/1891-03-03/ch555), [26 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/26/1089), which was superseded by [act Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), [34 Stat. 1260](/us/stat/34/1260), as amended by [act June 29, 1938, ch. 810](/us/act/1938-06-29/ch810), [52 Stat. 1235](/us/stat/52/1235) (formerly classified to section 71 et seq. of this title). [Act Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), was generally revised by [Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201), Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 584](/us/stat/81/584), and is classified to this chapter.

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Federal Meat Inspection Act which is classified to subchapters I to IV–A of this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to sections 94a and 132 of this title.
