---
title: "§ 44512. Catastrophic failure prevention research grants"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44512"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44512"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1182](/us/stat/108/1182).)"
---
# § 44512. Catastrophic failure prevention research grants

##### § 44512. Catastrophic failure prevention research grants

(a) General Authority.— The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may make grants to institutions of higher education and nonprofit research organizations—

(1) to conduct aviation research related to the development of technologies and methods to assess the risk of, and prevent, defects, failures, and malfunctions of products, parts, processes, and articles manufactured for use in aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, and appliances that could result in a catastrophic failure of an aircraft; and

(2) to establish centers of excellence for continuing the research.

(b) Solicitation, Application, Review, and Evaluation Process.— The Administrator shall establish a solicitation, application, review, and evaluation process that ensures providing grants under this section for proposals having adequate merit and relevancy to the research described in subsection (a) of this section.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1182](/us/stat/108/1182).)*

In this section, the words “institutions of higher education” are substituted for “colleges, universities” for consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (b), the words “providing grants” are substituted for “the funding” for consistency in the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 44512 | 49 App.:1353(h). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 312(h); added Nov. 5, 1990, Pub. L. 101–508, § 9208(b), 104 Stat. 1388–376. |
