---
title: "§ 2281c. Continuing authority programs"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2281c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2281c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title I, § 165](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/tI/s165), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2668](/us/stat/134/2668); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. H, title LXXXI, § 8118(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dH/tLXXXI/s8118/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3711](/us/stat/136/3711); [Pub. L. 118–272, div. A, title I, § 1107(k)](/us/pl/118/272/dA/tI/s1107/k), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3006](/us/stat/138/3006).)"
---
# § 2281c. Continuing authority programs

##### § 2281c. Continuing authority programs

(a) Community revitalization program

(1) In general Not later than 180 days after December 27, 2020, the Secretary shall implement a program, in accordance with this subsection, for carrying out a project under a continuing authority program for an economically disadvantaged community.

(2) Participation in program In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—

(A) solicit project proposals from non-Federal interests by posting program information on a public-facing website and reaching out to non-Federal interests that have previously submitted relevant project proposals to the Secretary; and

(B) review such proposals and select projects, taking into consideration geographic diversity among the selected projects.

(3) Cost share Notwithstanding the cost share authorized for the applicable continuing authority program, the Federal share of the cost of a project selected under paragraph (2) shall be 100 percent.

(4) Continuing authority program defined In this subsection, the term “continuing authority program” has the meaning given that term in [section 2282d(c)(1)(D) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2282d/c/1/D).

(5) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $150,000,000 for each fiscal year.

(b) Authorizations of Appropriations

(1) Emergency streambank and shoreline protection Notwithstanding [section 701r of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701r), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out such section $25,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

(2) Storm and hurricane restoration and impact minimization program Notwithstanding [section 426g(c) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s426g/c), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out such section $38,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

(3) Small river and harbor improvement projects Notwithstanding [section 577(a) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s577/a), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out such section $63,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

(4) Regional sediment management Notwithstanding [section 2326(g) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2326/g), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out such section $63,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

(5) Small flood control projects Notwithstanding [section 701s of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701s), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out such section $69,250,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

(6) Aquatic ecosystem restoration Notwithstanding [section 2330(f) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2330/f), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out such section $63,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

(7) Removal of obstructions; clearing channels Notwithstanding [section 701g of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701g), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out such section $8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

(8) Project modifications for improvement of environment Notwithstanding [section 2309a(h) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2309a/h), there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out such section $50,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title I, § 165](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/tI/s165), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2668](/us/stat/134/2668); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. H, title LXXXI, § 8118(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dH/tLXXXI/s8118/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3711](/us/stat/136/3711); [Pub. L. 118–272, div. A, title I, § 1107(k)](/us/pl/118/272/dA/tI/s1107/k), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3006](/us/stat/138/3006).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).

[Section 1107(k) of Pub. L. 118–272](/us/pl/118/272/s1107/k), which amended this section, contains two pars. (3), the first of which amended subsec. (a)(2) of this section and the second of which amended subsec. (a)(4) of this section.

#### Amendments

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1107(k)(1)](/us/pl/118/272/s1107/k/1), substituted “Community revitalization program” for “Pilot Program for Continuing Authority Projects in Small or Disadvantaged Communities” in heading.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1107(k)(2)](/us/pl/118/272/s1107/k/2), substituted “a program” for “a pilot program”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1107(k)(3)(A)](/us/pl/118/272/s1107/k/3/A), struck out “pilot” before “program” in heading. See Codification note above.

Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1107(k)(3)(B)](/us/pl/118/272/s1107/k/3/B), amended subpar. (A) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (A) read as follows: “publish a notice in the Federal Register that requests non-Federal interest proposals for a project under a continuing authority program for an economically disadvantaged community; and”. See Codification note above.

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1107(k)(3)(C)](/us/pl/118/272/s1107/k/3/C), substituted “select projects” for “select a total of 20 projects”. See Codification note above.

Subsec. (a)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1107(k)(3)](/us/pl/118/272/s1107/k/3)–(6), added par. (5), redesignated former par. (5) as (4), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 2282d(c)(1)(D) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2282d/c/1/D), and struck out former par. (4). Prior to amendment, text of par. (4) read as follows: “The authority to commence pursuant to this subsection a project selected under paragraph (2) shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after December 27, 2020.” See Codification note above.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of div. AA of Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).

#### Definitions

For definition of “economically disadvantaged community” as used in subsec. (a)(1) of this section, see [section 160 of div. AA of Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/s160), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
