---
title: "§ 412. Acquisition of lands and interests; acceptance of money and property; disposition and use of money"
identifier: "USC-T30-S412"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section412"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([June 21, 1950, ch. 338, § 2](/us/act/1950-06-21/ch338/s2), [64 Stat. 248](/us/stat/64/248); [Pub. L. 102–285, § 10(b)](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), May 18, 1992, [106 Stat. 172](/us/stat/106/172).)"
---
# § 412. Acquisition of lands and interests; acceptance of money and property; disposition and use of money

##### § 412. Acquisition of lands and interests; acceptance of money and property; disposition and use of money

For the purposes of this chapter the Secretary, acting through the United States Bureau of Mines, is authorized to acquire land and interests therein; to receive and accept money and property, real or personal, or interests therein, and services as a gift, bequest, or contribution; and may conduct activities or projects in cooperation with any person, firm, agency, or organization, Federal, State, or private. Money so received shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States in a special fund or funds for disbursement by the United States Bureau of Mines and shall remain available for the purposes for which received and accepted until expended.

*([June 21, 1950, ch. 338, § 2](/us/act/1950-06-21/ch338/s2), [64 Stat. 248](/us/stat/64/248); [Pub. L. 102–285, § 10(b)](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), May 18, 1992, [106 Stat. 172](/us/stat/106/172).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“United States Bureau of Mines” substituted in text for “Bureau of Mines” pursuant to [section 10(b) of Pub. L. 102–285](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1). For provisions relating to closure and transfer of functions of the United States Bureau of Mines, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1).
