---
title: "§ 4111. Payments to certain members of religious orders"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title I, § 14, [62 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/62/1247); [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 102](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s102), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)"
---
# § 4111. Payments to certain members of religious orders

##### § 4111. Payments to certain members of religious orders

In any case in which any money is payable as a result of the enactment of this subchapter to any person who is prevented from accepting such money by the rules, regulations, or customs of the church or the religious order or organization of which he is a member, such money shall be paid, upon the request of such person, to such church or to such religious order or organization.

*([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title I, § 14, [62 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/62/1247); [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 102](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s102), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [act July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), [62 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/62/1240), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2013 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1962—[Pub. L. 87–846](/us/pl/87/846) made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For provisions transferring Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States to Department of Justice, as a separate agency, see section 1622a et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

War Claims Commission, including offices of its members, abolished and functions of Commission and of members, officers, and employees thereof transferred to Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1954, §§ 2, 4, eff. July 1, 1954, 19 F.R. 3985, [68 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/68/1279), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. See, also, [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4101) and notes thereunder.
