---
title: "§ 9446. Cadets: requirements for admission"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9446"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9446"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 565](/us/stat/70A/565), § 9346; [Pub. L. 89–718, § 47](/us/pl/89/718/s47), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1121](/us/stat/80/1121); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title V, § 555(d)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tV/s555/d), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/110/2527); renumbered § 9446, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/a/3), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1832](/us/stat/132/1832).)"
---
# § 9446. Cadets: requirements for admission

##### § 9446. Cadets: requirements for admission

(a) To be eligible for admission to the Academy a candidate must be at least 17 years of age and must not have passed his twenty-third birthday on July 1 of the year in which he enters the Academy.

(b) To be admitted to the Academy, an appointee must show, by an examination held under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, that he is qualified in the subjects prescribed by the Secretary.

(c) A candidate designated as a principal or an alternate for appointment as a cadet shall appear for physical examination at a time and place designated by the Secretary.

(d) To be admitted to the Academy, an appointee must take and subscribe to an oath prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force. If a candidate for admission refuses to take and subscribe to the prescribed oath, his appointment is terminated.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 565](/us/stat/70A/565), § 9346; [Pub. L. 89–718, § 47](/us/pl/89/718/s47), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1121](/us/stat/80/1121); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title V, § 555(d)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tV/s555/d), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/110/2527); renumbered § 9446, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/a/3), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1832](/us/stat/132/1832).)*

In subsection (a), the words “Effective January 1, 1951” are omitted as executed. The word “Calendar” is omitted as surplusage. The words “must not have passed his twenty-second birthday” are substituted for the words “not more than twenty-two years of age”, to make it clear that a person whose twenty-second birthday falls on July 1 of the year of admission is eligible (see opinion of the Judge Advocate General of the Army (JAGA 1952/7083, 2 Sept. 1952)).

In subsection (b), the words “is qualified in” are substituted for the words “to be well versed in”. The words “To be” are substituted for the words “before they shall be”. The words “an appointee must show that he is qualified” are substituted for the words “shall be required to be well versed”. The words “from time to time” are omitted as surplusage.

In subsection (c), the word “shall” is substituted for the word “may”, since the nominee is required to appear for the examination. The word “appear” is substituted for the words “present himself”. The words “at a place” are substituted for the words “at West Point, New York, or other prescribed places”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 9346(a)9346(b)9346(c) | 10:1092b (less provisos).10:1096.10:1095. | June 30, 1950, ch. 421, § 2 (less provisos), 64 Stat. 304. |
|  |  | R.S. 1319; restated Mar. 2, 1901, ch. 804 (1st proviso under “Permanent Establishment”), 31 Stat. 911. |
|  |  | Aug. 9, 1912, ch. 275 (2d proviso under “Permanent Establishment”), 37 Stat. 252. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 9446 was renumbered [section 9496 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9496).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 9346 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9346) as this section.

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) substituted “twenty-third birthday” for “twenty-second birthday”.

1966—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 89–718](/us/pl/89/718) added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Authority To Waive Maximum Age Limitation on Admission to Service Academies for Certain Enlisted Members Who Served During Persian Gulf War

For authority to waive maximum age limitation in subsec. (a) of this section on basis of service on active duty in connection with Operation Desert Storm, see [section 514 of Pub. L. 102–190](/us/pl/102/190/s514), set out as a note under [section 7446 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7446).
