---
title: "§ 300j–19c. Study on intractable water systems"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300j–19c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300j–19c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIV, § 1459C, as added [Pub. L. 115–270, title II, § 2003](/us/pl/115/270/tII/s2003), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3841](/us/stat/132/3841).)"
---
# § 300j–19c. Study on intractable water systems

##### § 300j–19c. Study on intractable water systems

(a) Definition of intractable water system In this section, the term “intractable water system” means a community water system or a noncommunity water system—

(1) that serves fewer than 1,000 individuals;

(2) the owner or operator of which—

(A) is unable or unwilling to provide safe and adequate service to those individuals;

(B) has abandoned or effectively abandoned the community water system or noncommunity water system, as applicable;

(C) has defaulted on a financial obligation relating to the community water system or noncommunity water system, as applicable; or

(D) fails to maintain the facilities of the community water system or noncommunity water system, as applicable, in a manner so as to prevent a potential public health hazard; and

(3) that is, as of October 23, 2018—

(A) in significant noncompliance with this chapter or any regulation promulgated pursuant to this chapter; or

(B) listed as having a history of significant noncompliance with this subchapter pursuant to [section 300g–9(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300g–9/b/1).

(b) Study required

(1) In general Not later than 2 years after October 23, 2018, the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall complete a study that—

(A) identifies intractable water systems; and

(B) describes barriers to delivery of potable water to individuals served by an intractable water system.

(2) Report to Congress Not later than 2 years after October 23, 2018, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report describing findings and recommendations based on the study under this subsection.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIV, § 1459C, as added [Pub. L. 115–270, title II, § 2003](/us/pl/115/270/tII/s2003), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3841](/us/stat/132/3841).)*
