---
title: "§ 360h–1. Program to improve the device recall system"
identifier: "USC-T21-S360h–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section360h–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 518A](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s518A), as added [Pub. L. 112–144, title VI, § 605](/us/pl/112/144/tVI/s605), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1053](/us/stat/126/1053); amended [Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title III, § 3101(a)(2)(K)](/us/pl/114/255/dA/tIII/s3101/a/2/K), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1154](/us/stat/130/1154).)"
---
# § 360h–1. Program to improve the device recall system

##### § 360h–1. Program to improve the device recall system

(a) In general The Secretary shall—

(1) establish a program to routinely and systematically assess information relating to device recalls and use such information to proactively identify strategies for mitigating health risks presented by defective or unsafe devices;

(2) clarify procedures for conducting device recall audit checks to improve the ability of investigators to perform those checks in a consistent manner;

(3) develop detailed criteria for assessing whether a person performing a device recall has performed an effective correction or action plan for the recall; and

(4) document the basis for each termination by the Food and Drug Administration of a device recall.

(b) Assessment content The program established under subsection (a)(1) shall, at a minimum, identify—

(1) trends in the number and types of device recalls;

(2) devices that are most frequently the subject of a recall; and

(3) underlying causes of device recalls.

(c) Definition In this section, the term “recall” means—

(1) the removal from the market of a device pursuant to an order of the Secretary under subsection (b) or (e) of [section 360h of this title](/us/usc/t21/s360h); or

(2) the correction or removal from the market of a device at the initiative of the manufacturer or importer of the device that is required to be reported to the Secretary under [section 360i(g) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s360i/g).

*([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 518A](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s518A), as added [Pub. L. 112–144, title VI, § 605](/us/pl/112/144/tVI/s605), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1053](/us/stat/126/1053); amended [Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title III, § 3101(a)(2)(K)](/us/pl/114/255/dA/tIII/s3101/a/2/K), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1154](/us/stat/130/1154).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 114–255](/us/pl/114/255) redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall document the basis for the termination by the Food and Drug Administration of a device recall.”
