---
title: "§ 5891. Sex discrimination prohibited"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5891"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5891"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–438, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/93/438/tIV/s401), Oct. 11, 1974, [88 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/88/1254).)"
---
# § 5891. Sex discrimination prohibited

##### § 5891. Sex discrimination prohibited

No person shall on the ground of sex be excluded from participation in, be denied a license under, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity carried on or receiving Federal assistance under any subchapter of this chapter. This provision will be enforced through agency provisions and rules similar to those already established, with respect to racial and other discrimination, under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [[42 U.S.C. 2000d](/us/usc/t42/s2000d) et seq.]. However, this remedy is not exclusive and will not prejudice or cut off any other legal remedies available to a discriminatee.

*([Pub. L. 93–438, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/93/438/tIV/s401), Oct. 11, 1974, [88 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/88/1254).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Any subchapter of this chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “any title of this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–438](/us/pl/93/438), Oct. 11, 1974, [88 Stat. 1233](/us/stat/88/1233), which enacted this chapter, amended sections 5313 to 5316 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, repealed sections 2031 and 2032 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 5801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5801).

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 2000d et seq.) of chapter 21 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.
