---
title: "§ 9562. Statement of policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9562"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9562"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title XX, § 2003](/us/pl/116/94/dP/tXX/s2003), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3223](/us/stat/133/3223).)"
---
# § 9562. Statement of policy

##### § 9562. Statement of policy

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that the United States has economic and national security interests in assisting European and Eurasian countries achieve energy security through diversification of their energy sources and supply routes.

(b) Statement of policy It is the policy of the United States—

(1) to advance United States foreign policy and development goals by assisting European and Eurasian countries to reduce their dependence on energy resources from countries that use energy dependence for undue political influence, such as the Russian Federation, which has used natural gas to coerce, intimidate, and influence other countries;

(2) to promote the energy security of allies and partners of the United States by encouraging the development of accessible, transparent, and competitive energy markets that provide diversified sources, types, and routes of energy;

(3) to encourage United States public and private sector investment in European energy infrastructure projects to bridge the gap between energy security requirements and commercial demand in a way that is consistent with the region’s absorptive capacity; and

(4) to help facilitate the export of United States energy resources, technology, and expertise to global markets in a way that benefits the energy security of allies and partners of the United States, including in Europe and Eurasia.

*([Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title XX, § 2003](/us/pl/116/94/dP/tXX/s2003), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3223](/us/stat/133/3223).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the European Energy Security and Diversification Act of 2019, and also as part of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, and not as part of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 which comprises this chapter.
