---
title: "§ 9308. International cooperation; examination of impact on national magnetic fusion program; exploration of prospects for joint funding in construction of fusion engineering device; report to Congressional committees on results of examination and exploration"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9308"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9308"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–386, § 9](/us/pl/96/386/s9), Oct. 7, 1980, [94 Stat. 1543](/us/stat/94/1543).)"
---
# § 9308. International cooperation; examination of impact on national magnetic fusion program; exploration of prospects for joint funding in construction of fusion engineering device; report to Congressional committees on results of examination and exploration

##### § 9308. International cooperation; examination of impact on national magnetic fusion program; exploration of prospects for joint funding in construction of fusion engineering device; report to Congressional committees on results of examination and exploration

(a)

(1) The Secretary in consultation with the Secretary of State shall actively seek to enter into or to strengthen existing international cooperative agreements in magnetic fusion research and development activities of mutual benefit to all parties.

(2) The Secretary shall seek to achieve equitable exchange of information, data, scientific personnel, and other considerations in the conduct of cooperative efforts with technologically advanced nations.

(b)

(1) The Secretary shall examine the potential impacts on the national magnetic fusion program of United States participation in an international effort to construct fusion engineering devices.

(2) The Secretary shall explore, to the extent feasible, the prospects for joint financial participation by other nations with the United States in the construction of a fusion engineering device.

(3) Within two years of October 7, 1980, the Secretary shall transmit to the House Committee on Science and Technology and the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources the results of such examinations and explorations with his recommendations for construction of a national or international fusion engineering device: *Provided, however*, That such examinations and explorations shall not have the effect of delaying design activities related to a national fusion engineering device.

*([Pub. L. 96–386, § 9](/us/pl/96/386/s9), Oct. 7, 1980, [94 Stat. 1543](/us/stat/94/1543).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.
