---
title: "§ 13231. Public information program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13231"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13231"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/102/486/tIV/s405), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2880](/us/stat/106/2880).)"
---
# § 13231. Public information program

##### § 13231. Public information program

The Secretary, in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies and individuals and organizations with practical experience in the production and use of alternative fuels and alternative fueled vehicles, shall, for the purposes of promoting the use of alternative fuels and alternative fueled vehicles, establish a public information program on the benefits and costs of the use of alternative fuels in motor vehicles. Within 18 months after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall produce and make available an information package for consumers to assist them in choosing among alternative fuels and alternative fueled vehicles. Such information package shall provide relevant and objective information on motor vehicle characteristics and fuel characteristics as compared to gasoline, on a life cycle basis, including environmental performance, energy efficiency, domestic content, cost, maintenance requirements, reliability, and safety. Such information package shall also include information with respect to the conversion of conventional motor vehicles to alternative fueled vehicles. The Secretary shall include such other information as the Secretary determines is reasonable and necessary to help promote the use of alternative fuels in motor vehicles. Such information package shall be updated annually to reflect the most recent available information.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/102/486/tIV/s405), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2880](/us/stat/106/2880).)*
