---
title: "§ 5415. References in Federal law to Federal banking agencies"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5415"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5415"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title III, § 317](/us/pl/111/203/tIII/s317), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1526](/us/stat/124/1526).)"
---
# § 5415. References in Federal law to Federal banking agencies

##### § 5415. References in Federal law to Federal banking agencies

On and after the transfer date, any reference in Federal law to the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision or the Office of Thrift Supervision, in connection with any function of the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision or the Office of Thrift Supervision transferred under [section 5412(b) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5412/b) or any other provision of this subtitle, shall be deemed to be a reference to the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Chairperson of the Corporation, the Corporation, the Chairman of the Board of Governors, or the Board of Governors, as appropriate and consistent with the amendments made in subtitle E.

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title III, § 317](/us/pl/111/203/tIII/s317), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1526](/us/stat/124/1526).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in text, is subtitle A (§§ 311–319) of title III of [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1520](/us/stat/124/1520), which enacted this part and sections 4b and 16 of this title, amended sections 1, 11, 248, 481, 482, 1813, and 1820 of this title and [section 3502 of Title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3502), Public Printing and Documents, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1 and 16 of this title. For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Tables.

Subtitle E, referred to in text, is subtitle E (§ 351–378) of title III of [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1546](/us/stat/124/1546). For complete classification of subtitle E to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s4), set out as a note under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301).
