---
title: "§ 47175. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47175"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47175"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–176, title III, § 304(a)](/us/pl/108/176/tIII/s304/a), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2538](/us/stat/117/2538); amended [Pub. L. 112–95, title I, § 152(g)](/us/pl/112/95/tI/s152/g), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 34](/us/stat/126/34); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 191(b)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s191/b), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3239](/us/stat/132/3239); [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 784](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s784), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1313](/us/stat/138/1313).)"
---
# § 47175. Definitions

##### § 47175. Definitions

(1) Airport capacity enhancement project.— The term “airport capacity enhancement project” means—

(A) a project for construction or extension of a runway, including any land acquisition, taxiway, or safety area associated with the runway or runway extension;or

(B) such other airport development projects as the Secretary may designate as facilitating a reduction in air traffic congestion and delays.

(2) Airport sponsor.— The term “airport sponsor” has the meaning given the term “sponsor” under section 47102.

(3) Aviation safety project.— The term “aviation safety project” means an aviation project that—

(A) has as its primary purpose reducing the risk of injury to persons or damage to aircraft and property, as determined by the Administrator;

(B) is needed to respond to a recommendation from the National Transportation Safety Board, as determined by the Administrator; or

(C) is necessary for an airport to comply with part 139 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to airport certification).

(4) Congested airport.— The term “congested airport” means an airport that accounted for at least 1 percent of all delayed aircraft operations in the United States in the most recent year for which such data is available and an airport listed in table 1 of the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport Capacity Benchmark Report 2004 or any successor report.

(5) Federal agency.— The term “Federal agency” means a department or agency of the United States Government.

(6) General aviation airport construction or improvement project.— The term “general aviation airport construction or improvement project” means—

(A) a project for the construction or extension of a runway, including any land acquisition, helipad, taxiway, safety area, apron, or navigational aids associated with the runway or runway extension, at a general aviation airport, a reliever airport, or a commercial service airport that is not a primary airport (as such terms are defined in section 47102); and

(B) any other airport development project that the Secretary designates as facilitating aviation capacity building projects at a general aviation airport.

(7) Joint use airport.— The term “joint use airport” means an airport owned by the Department of Defense, at which both military and civilian aircraft make shared use of the airfield.

(8) Terminal development.— The term “terminal development” has the meaning given such term in section 47102.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–176, title III, § 304(a)](/us/pl/108/176/tIII/s304/a), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2538](/us/stat/117/2538); amended [Pub. L. 112–95, title I, § 152(g)](/us/pl/112/95/tI/s152/g), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 34](/us/stat/126/34); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 191(b)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s191/b), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3239](/us/stat/132/3239); [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 784](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s784), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1313](/us/stat/138/1313).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(4)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/4), redesignated par. (3) as (1). Former par. (1) redesignated (2).

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(4)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/4), redesignated par. (1) as (2). Former par. (2) redesignated (4).

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(4)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/4), redesignated par. (4) as (3). Former par. (3) redesignated (1).

Par. (3)(A). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(1)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/1), substituted “or” for “and”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(4)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/4), redesignated par. (2) as (4). Former par. (4) redesignated (3).

Par. (4)(A). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(2)(A)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/2/A), struck out “and” at end end.

Par. (4)(B), (C). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(2)(B)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/2/B), struck out subpar. (B) designation and redesignated cls. (i) and (ii) of former subpar. (B) as subpars. (B) and (C), respectively, of par. (4).

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(4)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/4), redesignated par. (6) as (5). Former par. (5) struck out.

[Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(3)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/3), struck out par. (5). Text read as follows: “The term ‘aviation security project’ means a security project at an airport required by the Department of Homeland Security.”

Pars. (6), (8). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 784(4)](/us/pl/118/63/s784/4), (5), added par. (8) and redesignated former par. (8) as (6). Former par. (6) redesignated (5).

2018—Par. (8). [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) added par. (8).

2012—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 112–95, § 152(g)(1)](/us/pl/112/95/s152/g/1), substituted “2004 or any successor report” for “2001”.

Par. (7). [Pub. L. 112–95, § 152(g)(2)](/us/pl/112/95/s152/g/2), added par. (7).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176/s3), set out an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
