---
title: "§ 546b–1. Maps and boundary descriptions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S546b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section546b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–11, title I, § 1106](/us/pl/111/11/tI/s1106), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1007](/us/stat/123/1007).)"
---
# § 546b–1. Maps and boundary descriptions

##### § 546b–1. Maps and boundary descriptions

(a) In general As soon as practicable after March 30, 2009, the Secretary shall file with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives maps and boundary descriptions of—

(1) the scenic areas;

(2) the wilderness areas designated by paragraphs (9) through (20) of [section 1 of Public Law 100–326](/us/pl/100/326/s1) ([16 U.S.C. 1132](/us/usc/t16/s1132) note) (as added by section 1102(a)(5));

(3) the wilderness study area designated by section 6(a)(5) of the Virginia Wilderness Act of 1984 ([16 U.S.C. 1132](/us/usc/t16/s1132) note; [Public Law 98–586](/us/pl/98/586)) (as added by section 1102(b)(2)(D)); and

(4) the potential wilderness area designated by section 1103(a).11 See References in Text note below.

(b) Force and effect The maps and boundary descriptions filed under subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in this subtitle, except that the Secretary may correct any minor errors in the maps and boundary descriptions.

(c) Availability of map and boundary description The maps and boundary descriptions filed under subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service.

(d) Conflict In the case of a conflict between a map filed under subsection (a) and the acreage of the applicable areas specified in this subtitle, the map shall control.

*([Pub. L. 111–11, title I, § 1106](/us/pl/111/11/tI/s1106), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1007](/us/stat/123/1007).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Paragraphs (9) through (20) of [section 1 of Public Law 100–326](/us/pl/100/326/s1) as added by section 1102(a)(5), referred to in subsec. (a)(2), means paragraphs (9) through (20) of [section 1 of Public Law 100–326](/us/pl/100/326/s1) as added by [section 1102(a)(5) of Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11/s1102/a/5), which enacted and amended provisions listed in a table of Wilderness Areas set out under [section 1132 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1132).

Section 6(a)(5) of the Virginia Wilderness Act of 1984 ([Public Law 98–586](/us/pl/98/586)) (as added by section 1102(b)(2)(D)), referred to in subsec. (a)(3), is [section 6(a)(5) of Pub. L. 98–586](/us/pl/98/586/s6/a/5), as added by [section 1102(b)(2)(D) of Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11/s1102/b/2/D), title I, Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1004](/us/stat/123/1004), which is not classified to the Code.

Section 1103(a), referred to in subsec. (a)(4), means [section 1103(a) of Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11/s1103/a), which amended provisions listed in a table of Wilderness Areas set out under [section 1132 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1132).

This subtitle, referred to in subsecs. (b) and (d), is subtitle B (§§ 1101–1107) of title I of [Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1002](/us/stat/123/1002), which enacted this section and [section 546b of this title](/us/usc/t16/s546b), enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 546b of this title](/us/usc/t16/s546b), and enacted and amended provisions listed in a table of Wilderness Areas set out under [section 1132 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1132).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see [section 1101 of Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11/s1101), set out as a note under [section 546b of this title](/us/usc/t16/s546b).
