---
title: "§ 2507i. Reporting requirements"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2507i"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2507i"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–293, title I, § 8I](/us/pl/87/293/tI/s8I), as added [Pub. L. 112–57, § 2](/us/pl/112/57/s2), Nov. 21, 2011, [125 Stat. 743](/us/stat/125/743).)"
---
# § 2507i. Reporting requirements

##### § 2507i. Reporting requirements

(a) In general The President shall annually through September 30, 2018, submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report summarizing information on—

(1) sexual assault of volunteers;

(2) other crimes against volunteers;

(3) the number of arrests, prosecutions, and incarcerations for crimes involving Peace Corps volunteers for every country in which volunteers serve; and

(4) the annual rate of early termination of volunteers, including demographic data associated with such early termination.

(b) GAO Not later than one year after November 21, 2011, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report evaluating the quality and accessibility of health care provided through the Department of Labor to returned volunteers upon their separation from the Peace Corps.

(c) Access to communications

(1) In general The President shall determine the level of access to communication, including cellular and Internet access, of each volunteer.

(2) Report Not later than six months after November 21, 2011, the President shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on the costs, feasibility, and benefits of providing all volunteers with access to adequate communication, including cellular service and Internet access.

*([Pub. L. 87–293, title I, § 8I](/us/pl/87/293/tI/s8I), as added [Pub. L. 112–57, § 2](/us/pl/112/57/s2), Nov. 21, 2011, [125 Stat. 743](/us/stat/125/743).)*
