---
title: "§ 2283. Eligible projects"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2283"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2283"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 463 [473], as added [Pub. L. 101–240, title VII, § 711](/us/pl/101/240/tVII/s711), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2522](/us/stat/103/2522).)"
---
# § 2283. Eligible projects

##### § 2283. Eligible projects

(a) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall seek to ensure that debt-for-nature exchanges under this part support one or more of the following activities by either the host government, a local private conservation group, or a combination thereof:

(1) restoration, protection, or sustainable use of the world’s oceans and atmosphere;

(2) restoration, protection, or sustainable use of diverse animal and plant species;

(3) establishment, restoration, protection, and maintenance of parks and reserves;

(4) development and implementation of sound systems of natural resource management;

(5) development and support of local conservation programs;

(6) training programs to strengthen conservation institutions and increase scientific, technical, and managerial capabilities of individuals and organizations involved in conservation efforts;

(7) efforts to generate knowledge, increase understanding, and enhance public commitment to conservation;

(8) design and implementation of sound programs of land and ecosystem management; and

(9) promotion of regenerative approaches in farming, forestry, fishing, and watershed management.

(b)

(1) In cooperation with nongovernmental organizations, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall seek to identify those areas, which because of an imminent threat, are in particular need of immediate attention to prevent the loss of unique biological life or valuable ecosystem.

(2) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall encourage as many eligible countries as possible to propose such exchanges with the purpose of demonstrating to a large number of governments the feasibility and benefits of sustainable development.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 463 [473], as added [Pub. L. 101–240, title VII, § 711](/us/pl/101/240/tVII/s711), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2522](/us/stat/103/2522).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Another [section 463 of Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195/s463) is classified to [section 2273 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2273).
