---
title: "§ 2154. Prerequisites for offers"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2154"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2154"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–618, title I, § 134](/us/pl/93/618/tI/s134), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 1995](/us/stat/88/1995); [Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1111(a)](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1111/a), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1137](/us/stat/102/1137); [Pub. L. 107–210, div. B, title XXI, § 2110(a)(3)](/us/pl/107/210/dB/tXXI/s2110/a/3), (4), Aug. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 1020](/us/stat/116/1020); [Pub. L. 114–26, title I, § 110(a)(4)](/us/pl/114/26/tI/s110/a/4), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 357](/us/stat/129/357).)"
---
# § 2154. Prerequisites for offers

##### § 2154. Prerequisites for offers

(a) In any negotiation seeking an agreement under [section 2133 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2133) or [section 4202 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4202), the President may make a formal offer for the modification or continuance of any United States duty, import restrictions, or barriers to (or other distortions of) international trade, the continuance of United States duty-free or excise treatment, or the imposition of additional duties, import restrictions, or other barrier to (or other distortion of) international trade including trade in services, foreign direct investment and intellectual property as covered by this subchapter, with respect to any article or matter only after he has received a summary of the hearings at which an opportunity to be heard with respect to such article has been afforded under [section 2153 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2153). In addition, the President may make an offer for the modification or continuance of any United States duty, the continuance of United States duty-free or excise treatment, or the imposition of additional duties, with respect to any article included in a list published and furnished under [section 2151(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2151/a), only after he has received advice concerning such article from the Commission under [section 2151(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2151/b), or after the expiration of the 6-month or 90-day period provided for in that section, as appropriate, whichever first occurs.

(b) In determining whether to make offers described in subsection (a) in the course of negotiating any trade agreement under [section 4202 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4202), and in determining the nature and scope of such offers, the President shall take into account any advice or information provided, or reports submitted, by—

with respect to any article, or domestic industry, that is sensitive, or potentially sensitive, to imports.

(1) the Commission;

(2) any advisory committee established under [section 2155 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2155); or

(3) any organization that holds public hearings under [section 2153 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2153);

*([Pub. L. 93–618, title I, § 134](/us/pl/93/618/tI/s134), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 1995](/us/stat/88/1995); [Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1111(a)](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1111/a), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1137](/us/stat/102/1137); [Pub. L. 107–210, div. B, title XXI, § 2110(a)(3)](/us/pl/107/210/dB/tXXI/s2110/a/3), (4), Aug. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 1020](/us/stat/116/1020); [Pub. L. 114–26, title I, § 110(a)(4)](/us/pl/114/26/tI/s110/a/4), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 357](/us/stat/129/357).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—[Pub. L. 114–26](/us/pl/114/26) substituted “[section 4202 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4202)” for “[section 3803 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3803)” in two places.

2002—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–210, § 2110(a)(3)](/us/pl/107/210/s2110/a/3), substituted “[section 3803 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3803),” for “[section 2902 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2902),”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–210, § 2110(a)(4)](/us/pl/107/210/s2110/a/4), substituted “[section 3803 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3803)” for “[section 2902 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2902)” in introductory provisions.

1988—[Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “In any negotiations seeking an agreement under part 1 of this subchapter or section 2133 or 2134 of this title, the President may make an offer for the modification or continuance of any United States duty, import restrictions, or barriers to (or other distortions of) international trade, the continuance of United States duty-free or excise treatment, or the imposition of additional duties, import restriction, or other barrier to (or other distortion of) international trade, with respect to any article only after he has received a summary of the hearings at which an opportunity to be heard with respect to such article has been afforded under [section 2153 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2153). In addition, the President may make an offer for the modification or continuance of any United States duty, the continuance of United States duty-free or excise treatment, or the imposition of additional duties, with respect to any article included in a list published and furnished under [section 2151(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2151/a), only after he has received advice concerning such article from the International Trade Commission under [section 2151(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2151/b), or after the expiration of the 6-month or 90-day period provided for in that section, as appropriate, whichever first occurs.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority

For delegation of functions of President under div. B of [Pub. L. 107–210](/us/pl/107/210), amending this section, see section 1 of Ex. Ord. No. 13277, Nov. 19, 2002, 67 F.R. 70305, set out as a note under [section 3801 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3801).
