---
title: "§ 13141. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T5-S13141"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section13141"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–286, § 3(c)](/us/pl/117/286/s3/c), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4302](/us/stat/136/4302).)"
---
# § 13141. Definitions

##### § 13141. Definitions

(1) Charitable organization.— The term “charitable organization” means an organization described in section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ([26 U.S.C. 170(c)](/us/usc/t26/s170/c)).

(2) Honorarium.— The term “honorarium” means a payment of money or any thing of value for an appearance, speech or article (including a series of appearances, speeches, or articles if the subject matter is directly related to the individual’s official duties or the payment is made because of the individual’s status with the Government) by a Member, officer or employee, excluding any actual and necessary travel expenses incurred by such individual (and one relative) to the extent that such expenses are paid or reimbursed by any other person, and the amount otherwise determined shall be reduced by the amount of any such expenses to the extent that such expenses are not paid or reimbursed.

(3) Member.— The term “Member” means a Senator in, a Representative in, or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

(4) Officer or employee.— The term “officer or employee” means any officer or employee of the Government except any special Government employee (as defined in [section 202 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s202)).

(5) Travel expenses.— The term “travel expenses” means, with respect to a Member, officer or employee, or a relative of any such individual, the cost of transportation, and the cost of lodging and meals while away from his or her residence or principal place of employment.

*([Pub. L. 117–286, § 3(c)](/us/pl/117/286/s3/c), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4302](/us/stat/136/4302).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 13141 | 5 U.S.C. App. (EGA § 505) | Pub. L. 95–521, title V, § 505, as added Pub. L. 101–194, title VI, § 601(a), Nov. 30, 1989, 103 Stat. 1761; amended Pub. L. 102–90, title I, § 6(b)(2), (3), title III, § 314(b), Aug. 14, 1991, 105 Stat. 450, 469. |
