---
title: "§ 2211a. Preserving United States harbors"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2211a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2211a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2107](/us/pl/113/121/tII/s2107), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1281](/us/stat/128/1281).)"
---
# § 2211a. Preserving United States harbors

##### § 2211a. Preserving United States harbors

(a) In general Upon a request from a non-Federal interest, the Secretary shall review a report developed by the non-Federal interest that provides an economic justification for Federal investment in the operation and maintenance of a federally authorized harbor or inland harbor (referred to in this section as a “federally authorized harbor”).

(b) Justification of investment A report submitted under subsection (a) may provide for an economic justification of Federal investment in the operation and maintenance of a federally authorized harbor based on—

(1) the projected economic benefits, including transportation savings and job creation; and

(2) other factors, including navigation safety, national security, and sustainability of subsistence harbors.

(c) Written response Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary receives a report under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide to the non-Federal interest a written response to the report, including an assessment of the information provided by the non-Federal interest.

(d) Prioritization As the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the Secretary may use the information provided in the report under subsection (a) to justify additional operation and maintenance funding for a federally authorized harbor in accordance with [section 2211(b) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2211/b).

(e) Limitation on statutory construction Nothing in this section may be construed to preclude the operation and maintenance of a federally authorized harbor under [section 2211(b) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2211/b).

*([Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2107](/us/pl/113/121/tII/s2107), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1281](/us/stat/128/1281).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
