---
title: "§ 1666a. Regulation of credit reports"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1666a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1666a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–321, title I, § 162](/us/pl/90/321/tI/s162), as added [Pub. L. 93–495, title III, § 306](/us/pl/93/495/tIII/s306), Oct. 28, 1974, [88 Stat. 1513](/us/stat/88/1513).)"
---
# § 1666a. Regulation of credit reports

##### § 1666a. Regulation of credit reports

(a) Reports by creditor on obligor’s failure to pay amount regarded as billing error After receiving a notice from an obligor as provided in [section 1666(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1666/a), a creditor or his agent may not directly or indirectly threaten to report to any person adversely on the obligor’s credit rating or credit standing because of the obligor’s failure to pay the amount indicated by the obligor under [section 1666(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1666/a/2), and such amount may not be reported as delinquent to any third party until the creditor has met the requirements of [section 1666 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1666) and has allowed the obligor the same number of days (not less than ten) thereafter to make payment as is provided under the credit agreement with the obligor for the payment of undisputed amounts.

(b) Reports by creditor on delinquent amounts in dispute; notification of obligor of parties notified of delinquency If a creditor receives a further written notice from an obligor that an amount is still in dispute within the time allowed for payment under subsection (a) of this section, a creditor may not report to any third party that the amount of the obligor is delinquent because the obligor has failed to pay an amount which he has indicated under [section 1666(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1666/a/2), unless the creditor also reports that the amount is in dispute and, at the same time, notifies the obligor of the name and address of each party to whom the creditor is reporting information concerning the delinquency.

(c) Reports by creditor of subsequent resolution of delinquent amounts A creditor shall report any subsequent resolution of any delinquencies reported pursuant to subsection (b) to the parties to whom such delinquencies were initially reported.

*([Pub. L. 90–321, title I, § 162](/us/pl/90/321/tI/s162), as added [Pub. L. 93–495, title III, § 306](/us/pl/93/495/tIII/s306), Oct. 28, 1974, [88 Stat. 1513](/us/stat/88/1513).)*
