---
title: "§ 12807. Low-income housing conservation and efficiency grant programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12807"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12807"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 257](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s257), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4122](/us/stat/104/4122).)"
---
# § 12807. Low-income housing conservation and efficiency grant programs

##### § 12807. Low-income housing conservation and efficiency grant programs

(a) In general The Secretary shall make available a model program to provide safe, energy-efficient affordable housing for low-income persons.

(b) Activities The model program shall provide for—

(1) identification of housing that is—

(A) owned and occupied by low-income families who have received, are currently receiving, or are scheduled to receive assistance under the weatherization assistance for low-income persons program under part A of title IV of the Energy Conservation and Production Act [[42 U.S.C. 6861](/us/usc/t42/s6861) et seq.] (or a comparable Federal or State program);

(B) in danger of becoming uninhabitable within a 5-year period because of structural weaknesses or problems; and

(C) not sufficiently sound to permit energy conservation improvements without other repair or rehabilitation measures to protect such energy investments;

(2) repairs that will significantly prolong the habitability of units identified under paragraph (1), including roofing, electrical, plumbing, furnace, and foundation repairs or replacement that will prolong the use of the unit as a safe and energy-efficient residence for low-income persons; and

(3) reasonable steps to ensure that any units so repaired will remain occupied by persons or families eligible for assistance under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 257](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s257), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4122](/us/stat/104/4122).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Energy Conservation and Production Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(A), is [Pub. L. 94–385](/us/pl/94/385), Aug. 14, 1976, [90 Stat. 1142](/us/stat/90/1142). Part A of title IV of the Act is classified generally to part A (§ 6861 et seq.) of subchapter III of chapter 81 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6801) and Tables.
