---
title: "§ 13259. Secretary’s recommendations to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13259"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13259"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title V, § 509](/us/pl/102/486/tV/s509), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2898](/us/stat/106/2898).)"
---
# § 13259. Secretary’s recommendations to Congress

##### § 13259. Secretary’s recommendations to Congress

(a) Recommendations to require availability or acquisition If the Secretary determines, under [section 13257(f) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13257/f), that a fleet requirement program under [section 13257 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13257) is not necessary, the Secretary shall so notify the Congress. If the Secretary so notifies the Congress, the Secretary shall, within 2 years after such notification and by rule, prepare and submit to the Congress recommendations for requirements or incentives for—

to the extent necessary to achieve such goals of replacement fuel use and to ensure that the availability of alternative fuels and of alternative fueled vehicles are consistent with each other.

(1) fuel suppliers to make available to the public replacement fuels, including providing for the construction or availability of related fuel delivery systems;

(2) suppliers of alternative fueled vehicles to make available to the public alternative fueled vehicles and to ensure the availability of necessary related services; and

(3) motor vehicle drivers to use replacement fuels,

(b) Fair and equitable application In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall recommend the imposition of requirements proportionately on all appropriate fuel suppliers and purchasers of motor fuels and suppliers and purchasers of motor vehicles in a fair and equitable manner.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title V, § 509](/us/pl/102/486/tV/s509), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2898](/us/stat/106/2898).)*
