---
title: "§ 3505. Director"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–53, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/96/53/tIV/s405), Aug. 14, 1979, [93 Stat. 373](/us/stat/93/373).)"
---
# § 3505. Director

##### § 3505. Director

(a) Appointment; compensation There shall be a Director of the Institute (hereafter in this chapter referred to as the “Director”) who shall be the chief executive officer of the Institute. The Director shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall receive compensation at the rate payable for level III of the Executive Schedule under [section 5314 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314).

(b) Exercise of Presidential authority; delegation of authority The President may exercise any authorities conferred upon him by this chapter through the Director or any other agency or officer of the United States Government as he shall direct. The Director or head of any such agency or any such officer may delegate to any of his subordinates authority to perform any of such functions.

*([Pub. L. 96–53, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/96/53/tIV/s405), Aug. 14, 1979, [93 Stat. 373](/us/stat/93/373).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title IV of [Pub. L. 96–53](/us/pl/96/53), Aug. 14, 1979, [93 Stat. 371](/us/stat/93/371), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 512(a) of Pub. L. 96–53](/us/pl/96/53/s512/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1979 Amendment note under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151).
