---
title: "§ 6515. Payment of fees for services of Attending Physician and for use of Senate health and fitness facilities"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6515"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6515"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–392, title III, § 314](/us/pl/102/392/tIII/s314), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1723](/us/stat/106/1723).)"
---
# § 6515. Payment of fees for services of Attending Physician and for use of Senate health and fitness facilities

##### § 6515. Payment of fees for services of Attending Physician and for use of Senate health and fitness facilities

(a) Regulations The Senate Committee on Rules and Administration shall promulgate regulations—

(1) pertaining to the services provided by the Attending Physician and the operation and use of the Senate health and fitness facilities; and

(2) requiring the payment of fees for services received from the Attending Physician and for the use of the Senate health and fitness facilities pursuant to such regulations.

(b) Withholding of fees from salary The Secretary of the Senate is authorized to withhold fees from the salary of an individual authorized by such regulations to receive such services from the Attending Physician and to use the Senate health and fitness facilities.

(c) Deposit in General Fund The Secretary of the Senate shall remit all fees required by subsection (a)(2) that are collected pursuant to subsection (b) or by direct payment to the General Fund of the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts unless otherwise provided by law.

(d) Effective date The provision 11 So in original. Probably should be “provisions”. of this section shall take effect on April 9, 1992.

*([Pub. L. 102–392, title III, § 314](/us/pl/102/392/tIII/s314), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1723](/us/stat/106/1723).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 121e of this title](/us/usc/t2/s121e) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1993.
