---
title: "§ 6006. Permissive terms in plans"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6006"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6006"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1911](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1911), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3847](/us/stat/104/3847).)"
---
# § 6006. Permissive terms in plans

##### § 6006. Permissive terms in plans

(a) In general A plan issued pursuant to this chapter may contain one or more of the terms and conditions contained in this section.

(b) Exemptions The plan may provide authority to exempt from the plan pecans used for nonfood uses and authority for the Board to require satisfactory safeguards against improper uses of such exemptions.

(c) Different payment and reporting schedules The plan may provide authority to designate different payment and reporting schedules for growers, grower-shellers, first handlers and importers to recognize differences in marketing practices and procedures utilized in different production areas.

(d) Promotion The plan may provide for the establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs or projects for the promotion of pecans and for the disbursement of necessary funds for such purposes, except that—

(1) any such program or project shall be directed toward increasing the general demand for pecans; and

(2) such promotional activities shall comply with other restrictions on the use of funds that are established under this chapter.

(e) Research and information The plan may provide for establishing and carrying on research, consumer information, and industry information projects and studies to the end that the marketing and utilization of pecans may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more efficient, and for the disbursement of necessary funds for such purposes.

(f) Reserve funds The plan may provide authority to accumulate reserve funds from assessments collected pursuant to this chapter, to permit an effective and continuous coordinated program of research, consumer information, industry information and promotion in years when the production and assessment income may be reduced, except that the total reserve fund may not exceed the amount budgeted for the operation of the plan for 2 years.

(g) Foreign markets The plan may provide authority to use funds collected under this chapter, with the approval of the Secretary, for the development and expansion of pecan sales in foreign markets.

*([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1911](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1911), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3847](/us/stat/104/3847).)*
