---
title: "§ 3652. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3652"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3652"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–559, § 3](/us/pl/106/559/s3), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2779](/us/stat/114/2779).)"
---
# § 3652. Purposes

##### § 3652. Purposes

(1) to carry out the responsibility of the United States to Indian tribes and members of Indian tribes by ensuring access to quality technical and legal assistance.

(2) To strengthen and improve the capacity of tribal court systems that address civil and criminal causes of action under the jurisdiction of Indian tribes.

(3) To strengthen tribal governments and the economies of Indian tribes through the enhancement and, where appropriate, development of tribal court systems for the administration of justice in Indian country by providing technical and legal assistance services.

(4) To encourage collaborative efforts between national or regional membership organizations and associations whose membership consists of judicial system personnel within tribal justice systems; non-profit entities which provide legal assistance services for Indian tribes, members of Indian tribes, and/or tribal justice systems.

(5) To assist in the development of tribal judicial systems by supplementing prior congressional efforts such as the Indian Tribal Justice Act [[25 U.S.C. 3601](/us/usc/t25/s3601) et seq.] ([Public Law 103–176](/us/pl/103/176)).

*([Pub. L. 106–559, § 3](/us/pl/106/559/s3), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2779](/us/stat/114/2779).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 106–559](/us/pl/106/559), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2778](/us/stat/114/2778), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3651 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3651) and Tables.

The Indian Tribal Justice Act, referred to in par. (5), is [Pub. L. 103–176](/us/pl/103/176), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2004](/us/stat/107/2004), which is classified generally to chapter 38 (§ 3601 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3601) and Tables.
