---
title: "§ 10191. Crime prevention campaign grant"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10191"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10191"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 519](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s519), as added [Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 626](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s626), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 636](/us/stat/120/636).)"
---
# § 10191. Crime prevention campaign grant

##### § 10191. Crime prevention campaign grant

(a) Grant authorization The Attorney General may provide a grant to a national private, nonprofit organization that has expertise in promoting crime prevention through public outreach and media campaigns in coordination with law enforcement agencies and other local government officials, and representatives of community public interest organizations, including schools and youth-serving organizations, faith-based, and victims’ organizations and employers.

(b) Application To request a grant under this section, an organization described in subsection (a) shall submit an application to the Attorney General in such form and containing such information as the Attorney General may require.

(c) Use of funds An organization that receives a grant under this section shall—

(1) create and promote national public communications campaigns;

(2) develop and distribute publications and other educational materials that promote crime prevention;

(3) design and maintain web sites and related web-based materials and tools;

(4) design and deliver training for law enforcement personnel, community leaders, and other partners in public safety and hometown security initiatives;

(5) design and deliver technical assistance to States, local jurisdictions, and crime prevention practitioners and associations;

(6) coordinate a coalition of Federal, national, and statewide organizations and communities supporting crime prevention;

(7) design, deliver, and assess demonstration programs;

(8) operate McGruff-related programs, including McGruff Club;

(9) operate the Teens, Crime, and Community Program; and

(10) evaluate crime prevention programs and trends.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—

(1) for fiscal year 2007, $7,000,000;

(2) for fiscal year 2008, $8,000,000;

(3) for fiscal year 2009, $9,000,000; and

(4) for fiscal year 2010, $10,000,000.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 519](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s519), as added [Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 626](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s626), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 636](/us/stat/120/636).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3765 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3765), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 519 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s519), title I, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 208](/us/stat/82/208); [Pub. L. 91–644, title I, § 7(7)](/us/pl/91/644/tI/s7/7), Jan. 2, 1971, [84 Stat. 1888](/us/stat/84/1888); [Pub. L. 93–83, § 2](/us/pl/93/83/s2), Aug. 6, 1973, [87 Stat. 214](/us/stat/87/214); [Pub. L. 94–273, § 5(5)](/us/pl/94/273/s5/5), Apr. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 377](/us/stat/90/377); [Pub. L. 94–503, title I, § 125](/us/pl/94/503/tI/s125), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2422](/us/stat/90/2422); [Pub. L. 95–115, § 9(a)](/us/pl/95/115/s9/a), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1060](/us/stat/91/1060), related to annual reports to President and Congress, prior to the general amendment of title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) by [Pub. L. 96–157](/us/pl/96/157).
