---
title: "§ 3317. Public-private contributions for additional educational assistance"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3317"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3317"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–252, title V, § 5003(a)(1)](/us/pl/110/252/tV/s5003/a/1), June 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2368](/us/stat/122/2368); amended [Pub. L. 115–48, title I](/us/pl/115/48/tI), §§ 103(a), 104(a), 105(c)(4), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 975](/us/stat/131/975), 976; [Pub. L. 116–315, title I](/us/pl/116/315/tI), §§ 1002(b)(3), 1008, Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 4938](/us/stat/134/4938), 4940.)"
---
# § 3317. Public-private contributions for additional educational assistance

##### § 3317. Public-private contributions for additional educational assistance

(a) Establishment of Program.— In instances where the educational assistance provided pursuant to section 3313(c)(1)(A) does not cover the full cost of tuition and fees for a program of education, the Secretary shall carry out a program under which colleges and universities can, voluntarily, enter into an agreement with the Secretary to cover a portion of such tuition and fees not otherwise covered under subsection (c)(1)(A) or (e)(2)(A) of [section 3313 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3313), which contributions shall be matched by equivalent contributions toward such costs by the Secretary. The program shall only apply to covered individuals described in paragraphs (1), (2), (8), (9), (10), and (11) of section 3311(b).

(b) Designation of Program.— The program under this section shall be known as the “Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement Program”.

(c) Agreements.— The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with each college or university seeking to participate in the program under this section. Each agreement shall specify the following:

(1) The manner (whether by direct grant, scholarship, or otherwise) of the contributions to be made by the college or university concerned.

(2) The maximum amount of the contribution to be made by the college or university concerned with respect to any particular individual in any given academic year.

(3) The maximum number of individuals for whom the college or university concerned will make contributions in any given academic year.

(4) Such other matters as the Secretary and the college or university concerned jointly consider appropriate.

(d) Matching Contributions.—

(1) In general.— In instances where the educational assistance provided an individual under section 3313(c)(1)(A) does not cover the full cost of tuition and mandatory fees at a college or university, the Secretary shall provide up to 50 percent of the remaining costs for tuition and mandatory fees if the college or university voluntarily enters into an agreement with the Secretary to match an equal percentage of any of the remaining costs for such tuition and fees.

(2) Use of appropriated funds.— Amounts available to the Secretary under section 3324(b) for payment of the costs of this chapter shall be available to the Secretary for purposes of paragraph (1).

(e) Outreach.— The Secretary shall make available on the Internet website of the Department available to the public a current list of the colleges and universities participating in the program under this section. The list shall specify, for each college or university so listed, appropriate information on the agreement between the Secretary and such college or university under subsection (c).

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–252, title V, § 5003(a)(1)](/us/pl/110/252/tV/s5003/a/1), June 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2368](/us/stat/122/2368); amended [Pub. L. 115–48, title I](/us/pl/115/48/tI), §§ 103(a), 104(a), 105(c)(4), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 975](/us/stat/131/975), 976; [Pub. L. 116–315, title I](/us/pl/116/315/tI), §§ 1002(b)(3), 1008, Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 4938](/us/stat/134/4938), 4940.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–315, § 1008](/us/pl/116/315/s1008), substituted “the full cost of tuition and fees for a program of education” for “the full cost of established charges (as specified in section 3313)” and “such tuition and fees” for “those established charges”.

[Pub. L. 116–315, § 1002(b)(3)](/us/pl/116/315/s1002/b/3), substituted “paragraphs (1), (2), (8), (9), (10), and (11)” for “paragraphs (1), (2), (8), and (9)”.

2017—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–48, § 105(c)(4)](/us/pl/115/48/s105/c/4), substituted “paragraphs (1), (2), (8), and (9)” for “paragraphs (1), (2), (9), and (10)”.

[Pub. L. 115–48, § 104(a)](/us/pl/115/48/s104/a), which directed substitution of “subsection (c)(1)(A) or (e)(2)(A) of [section 3313 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3313)” for “section 3313(c)(1)(A)” in the first sentence, was executed in both places where “section 3313(c)(1)(A)” appeared, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

[Pub. L. 115–48, § 103(a)](/us/pl/115/48/s103/a), substituted “paragraphs (1), (2), (9), and (10)” for “paragraphs (1) and (2)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [section 1002(b)(3) of Pub. L. 116–315](/us/pl/116/315/s1002/b/3) effective immediately after the amendments made by [section 105 of Pub. L. 115–48](/us/pl/115/48/s105) [amendments effective Aug. 1, 2020] and applicable with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, commencing on or after Aug. 1, 2021, see [section 1002(c) of Pub. L. 116–315](/us/pl/116/315/s1002/c), set out as a note under [section 3311 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3311).

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–48, title I, § 103(b)](/us/pl/115/48/tI/s103/b), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 975](/us/stat/131/975), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on August 1, 2018.”

[Pub. L. 115–48, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/115/48/tI/s104/b), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 975](/us/stat/131/975), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on August 1, 2022.”

Amendment by [section 105(c)(4) of Pub. L. 115–48](/us/pl/115/48/s105/c/4) effective Aug. 1, 2020, see [section 105(d) of Pub. L. 115–48](/us/pl/115/48/s105/d), set out as a note under [section 3311 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3311).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Aug. 1, 2009, see [section 5003(d) of Pub. L. 110–252](/us/pl/110/252/s5003/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under [section 16163 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s16163), Armed Forces.

#### Pat Tillman Veterans’ Scholarship Initiative

[Pub. L. 111–275, title I, § 107](/us/pl/111/275/tI/s107), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2872](/us/stat/124/2872), provided that: “(a) Availability of Scholarship Information.—By not later than June 1, 2011, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall include on the Internet website of the Department of Veterans Affairs a list of organizations that provide scholarships to veterans and their survivors and, for each such organization, a link to the Internet website of the organization. “(b) Maintenance of Scholarship Information.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall make reasonable efforts to notify schools and other appropriate entities of the opportunity to be included on the Internet website of the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to subsection (a).”
