---
title: "§ 853. Power to settle claims"
identifier: "USC-T33-S853"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section853"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([June 5, 1920, ch. 256](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch256), [41 Stat. 1054](/us/stat/41/1054); [Pub. L. 93–608, § 1(4)](/us/pl/93/608/s1/4), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/88/1967); [Pub. L. 98–176](/us/pl/98/176), Nov. 29, 1983, [97 Stat. 1124](/us/stat/97/1124).)"
---
# § 853. Power to settle claims

##### § 853. Power to settle claims

The Secretary of Commerce is authorized to consider, ascertain, adjust, and determine all claims for damages, where the amount of the claim does not exceed $2,500, occasioned, subsequent to June 5, 1920, by acts for which the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is responsible.

*([June 5, 1920, ch. 256](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch256), [41 Stat. 1054](/us/stat/41/1054); [Pub. L. 93–608, § 1(4)](/us/pl/93/608/s1/4), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/88/1967); [Pub. L. 98–176](/us/pl/98/176), Nov. 29, 1983, [97 Stat. 1124](/us/stat/97/1124).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1983—[Pub. L. 98–176](/us/pl/98/176) amended section generally, substituting “The Secretary of Commerce is” for “The Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, subject to the approval of the Secretary of Commerce, is hereby”, “$2,500” for “$500”, and “the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is responsible” for “the Coast and Geodetic Survey shall be found to be responsible”.

1975—[Pub. L. 93–608](/us/pl/93/608) struck out reporting requirement to Congress of amounts ascertained and determined due for payment as legal claims out of Congressional appropriations.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Repeals

[Act Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 753, title IV, § 424(a)](/us/act/1946-08-02/ch753/tIV/s424/a), [60 Stat. 846](/us/stat/60/846), repealed this section insofar as it concerned claims cognizable under sections 921 and 922 of former Title 28, Judicial Code and Judiciary (see sections 2672 and 2673 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure) which are caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any Government employee acting within the scope of his employment, but by section 424(b) of that act, section 946 of former Title 28 (see note set out under [section 2680 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2680)), this section is specifically saved with reference to any claim which is not caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any Government employee acting within the scope of his employment.
