---
title: "§ 19109. Translation Accelerator"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19109"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19109"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10389](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10389), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1584](/us/stat/136/1584).)"
---
# § 19109. Translation Accelerator

##### § 19109. Translation Accelerator

(a) In general The Director shall establish Translation Accelerators to further the research, development, and commercialization of innovation in the key technology focus areas.

(b) Partnerships

(1) In general Each Translation Accelerator shall be comprised of a partnership including 2 or more of the following entities:

(A) An institution of higher education.

(B) A for-profit company.

(C) A nonprofit organization.

(D) A Federal agency.

(E) Another entity, if that entity is determined by the Director to be vital to the success of the program.

(2) Institutional or organizational level The Director shall work to ensure that such partnerships exist at the institutional or organization level, rather than solely at the principal investigator level.

(3) Cost share Not less than 25 percent of the funding for an institute shall be provided by non-Federal entities.

(4) Number of centers and institutes established The Director shall endeavor to establish a balance in the number of Regional Innovation Engines and Translation Accelerators.

(c) Authorization of appropriations From within funds authorized for the Directorate for Technology, Innovation, and Partnerships, there are authorized to carry out the activities under this section and [section 19108 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s19108) $6,500,000,000 for fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10389](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10389), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1584](/us/stat/136/1584).)*
