---
title: "§ 7154. Transfers from Department of Housing and Urban Development"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7154"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7154"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 304](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s304), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 580](/us/stat/91/580).)"
---
# § 7154. Transfers from Department of Housing and Urban Development

##### § 7154. Transfers from Department of Housing and Urban Development

(a) There is transferred to, and vested in, the Secretary the functions vested in the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to section 304 of the Energy Conservation Standards for New Buildings Act of 1976 [[42 U.S.C. 6833](/us/usc/t42/s6833)], to develop and promulgate energy conservation standards for new buildings. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall provide the Secretary with any necessary technical assistance in the development of such standards. All other responsibilities, pursuant to title III of the Energy Conservation and Production Act [[42 U.S.C. 6831](/us/usc/t42/s6831) et seq.], shall remain with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, except that the Secretary shall be kept fully and currently informed of the implementation of the promulgated standards.

(b) There is hereby transferred to, and vested in, the Secretary the functions vested in the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to [section 1701z–8 of title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1701z–8).

*([Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 304](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s304), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 580](/us/stat/91/580).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Energy Conservation and Production Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 94–385](/us/pl/94/385), Aug. 14, 1976, [90 Stat. 1125](/us/stat/90/1125). Title III of the Energy Conservation and Production Act, known as the Energy Conservation Standards for New Buildings Act of 1976, is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 6831 et seq.) of chapter 81 of this title. For complete classification of the Energy Conservation and Production Act and the Energy Standards for New Buildings Act of 1976 to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6801) and Tables.
