---
title: "§ 1313a. Revised water quality standards"
identifier: "USC-T33-S1313a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section1313a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–117, § 24](/us/pl/97/117/s24), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1632](/us/stat/95/1632).)"
---
# § 1313a. Revised water quality standards

##### § 1313a. Revised water quality standards

The review, revision, and adoption or promulgation of revised or new water quality standards pursuant to section 303(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act [[33 U.S.C. 1313(c)](/us/usc/t33/s1313/c)] shall be completed by the date three years after December 29, 1981. No grant shall be made under title II of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act [[33 U.S.C. 1281](/us/usc/t33/s1281) et seq.] after such date until water quality standards are reviewed and revised pursuant to section 303(c), except where the State has in good faith submitted such revised water quality standards and the Administrator has not acted to approve or disapprove such submission within one hundred and twenty days of receipt.

*([Pub. L. 97–117, § 24](/us/pl/97/117/s24), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1632](/us/stat/95/1632).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, referred to in text, is [act June 30, 1948, ch. 758](/us/act/1948-06-30/ch758), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 92–500, § 2](/us/pl/92/500/s2), Oct. 18, 1972, [86 Stat. 816](/us/stat/86/816). Title II of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 1281 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1251 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1251) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Municipal Wastewater Treatment Construction Grant Amendments of 1981, and not as part of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act which comprises this chapter.
