---
title: "§ 904. Liability for compensation"
identifier: "USC-T33-S904"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section904"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 509, § 4](/us/act/1927-03-04/ch509/s4), [44 Stat. 1426](/us/stat/44/1426); [Pub. L. 98–426, § 4(a)](/us/pl/98/426/s4/a), Sept. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1641](/us/stat/98/1641).)"
---
# § 904. Liability for compensation

##### § 904. Liability for compensation

(a) Every employer shall be liable for and shall secure the payment to his employees of the compensation payable under sections 907, 908, and 909 of this title. In the case of an employer who is a subcontractor, only if such subcontractor fails to secure the payment of compensation shall the contractor be liable for and be required to secure the payment of compensation. A subcontractor shall not be deemed to have failed to secure the payment of compensation if the contractor has provided insurance for such compensation for the benefit of the subcontractor.

(b) Compensation shall be payable irrespective of fault as a cause for the injury.

*([Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 509, § 4](/us/act/1927-03-04/ch509/s4), [44 Stat. 1426](/us/stat/44/1426); [Pub. L. 98–426, § 4(a)](/us/pl/98/426/s4/a), Sept. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1641](/us/stat/98/1641).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–426](/us/pl/98/426) amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: “Every employer shall be liable for and shall secure the payment to his employees of the compensation payable under sections 907, 908, and 909 of this title. In the case of an employer who is a subcontractor, the contractor shall be liable for and shall secure the payment of such compensation to employees of the subcontractor unless the subcontractor has secured such payment.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–426](/us/pl/98/426) effective Sept. 28, 1984, and applicable both with respect to claims filed after Sept. 28, 1984, and to claims pending on that date, see [section 28(a) of Pub. L. 98–426](/us/pl/98/426/s28/a), set out as a note under [section 901 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s901).
