---
title: "§ 321. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T24-S321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title24-section321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "24"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–571, § 1](/us/pl/86/571/s1), July 5, 1960, [74 Stat. 308](/us/stat/74/308); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)"
---
# § 321. Definitions

##### § 321. Definitions

(a) The term “Department” means the Department of Health and Human Services.

(b) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(c) The term “State” means a State or Territory of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.

(d) The term “eligible person” means an individual with respect to whom the following certificates are furnished to the Secretary:

(1) A certificate of the Secretary of State that such individual is a national of the United States; and

(2) Either (A) a certificate obtained or transmitted by the Secretary of State that such individual has been legally adjudged insane in a named foreign country, or (B) a certificate of an appropriate authority or person (as determined in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services) stating that at the time of such certification such individual was in a named foreign country and was in need of care and treatment in a mental hospital.

(e) The term “residence” means residence as determined under the applicable law or regulations of a State or political subdivision for the purpose of determining the eligibility of an individual for hospitalization in a public mental hospital.

*([Pub. L. 86–571, § 1](/us/pl/86/571/s1), July 5, 1960, [74 Stat. 308](/us/stat/74/308); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Department of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Department of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsec. (a) and “Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsecs. (b) and (d)(2), pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b) which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 86–571, § 11](/us/pl/86/571/s11), July 5, 1960, [74 Stat. 310](/us/stat/74/310), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter and repealing sections 191a and 196a of this title] shall, except as otherwise specified, take effect on the date of its enactment [July 5, 1960].”
