---
title: "§ 894d–1. Investigation requirement"
identifier: "USC-T33-S894d–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section894d–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–328, div. C, title XXXV, § 3546](/us/pl/114/328/dC/tXXXV/s3546), as added [Pub. L. 116–259, title V, § 504(b)(2)](/us/pl/116/259/tV/s504/b/2), Dec. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 1180](/us/stat/134/1180).)"
---
# § 894d–1. Investigation requirement

##### § 894d–1. Investigation requirement

(a) Requirement to investigate

(1) In general The Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, shall ensure that each allegation of sexual harassment reported under [section 894 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s894) and each allegation of sexual assault reported under [section 894a of this title](/us/usc/t33/s894a) is investigated thoroughly and promptly.

(2) Sense of Congress on commencement of investigation It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary should ensure that an investigation of alleged sexual harassment reported under [section 894 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s894) or sexual assault reported under [section 894a of this title](/us/usc/t33/s894a) commences not later than 48 hours after the time at which the allegation was reported.

(b) Notification of delay In any case in which the time between the reporting of alleged sexual harassment or sexual assault under section 894 or 894a of this title, respectively, and commencement of an investigation of the allegation exceeds 48 hours, the Secretary shall notify the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives of the delay.

*([Pub. L. 114–328, div. C, title XXXV, § 3546](/us/pl/114/328/dC/tXXXV/s3546), as added [Pub. L. 116–259, title V, § 504(b)(2)](/us/pl/116/259/tV/s504/b/2), Dec. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 1180](/us/stat/134/1180).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 3546 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s3546) was renumbered section 3548 and is classified to [section 894e of this title](/us/usc/t33/s894e).
