---
title: "§ 4818. Review relating to countries subject to comprehensive United States arms embargo"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4818"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4818"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1759](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1759), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2223](/us/stat/132/2223); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, § 1081(d)(8)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tX/s1081/d/8), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3874](/us/stat/134/3874).)"
---
# § 4818. Review relating to countries subject to comprehensive United States arms embargo

##### § 4818. Review relating to countries subject to comprehensive United States arms embargo

(a) In general The Secretary, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Energy, and the heads of other Federal agencies as appropriate, shall conduct a review of license requirements for exports, reexports, or in-country transfers of items to countries subject to a comprehensive United States arms embargo, including, as appropriate—

(1) the scope of controls under title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, that apply to exports, reexports, and in-country transfers for military end uses and military end users in countries that are subject to a comprehensive United States arms embargo and countries that are subject to a United Nations arms embargo; and

(2) entries on the Commerce Control List maintained under title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, that are not subject to a license requirement for the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of items to countries subject to a comprehensive United States arms embargo.

(b) Implementation of results of review Not later than 270 days after August 13, 2018, the Secretary shall implement the results of the review conducted under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1759](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1759), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2223](/us/stat/132/2223); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, § 1081(d)(8)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tX/s1081/d/8), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3874](/us/stat/134/3874).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted period for semicolon at end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, § 1081(d)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tX/s1081/d), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3873](/us/stat/134/3873), provided that the amendment made by section 1081(d)(8) is effective as of Aug. 13, 2018, and as if included in [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232).
