---
title: "§ 4236. Allocation formula"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4236"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4236"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 817](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s817), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2890](/us/stat/114/2890), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2984](/us/stat/114/2984).)"
---
# § 4236. Allocation formula

##### § 4236. Allocation formula

(a) Establishment The Secretary shall, by regulation issued not later than the expiration of the 6-month period beginning on December 27, 2000, in the manner provided under [section 4227 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4227), establish a formula to provide for the allocation of amounts available for a fiscal year for block grants under this subchapter in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(b) Factors for determination of need The formula under subsection (a) shall be based on factors that reflect the needs for assistance for affordable housing activities, including—

(1) the number of low-income dwelling units owned or operated at the time pursuant to a contract between the Director and the Secretary;

(2) the extent of poverty and economic distress and the number of Native Hawaiian families eligible to reside on the Hawaiian Home Lands; and

(3) any other objectively measurable conditions that the Secretary and the Director may specify.

(c) Other factors for consideration In establishing the formula under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider the relative administrative capacities of the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands and other challenges faced by the Department, including—

(1) geographic distribution within Hawaiian Home Lands; and

(2) technical capacity.

(d) Effective date This section shall take effect on December 27, 2000.

*([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 817](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s817), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2890](/us/stat/114/2890), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2984](/us/stat/114/2984).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 106–568, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/s203), and [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513), enacted substantially identical sections 817 of [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330). This section is based on the text of [section 817 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s817), as added by [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513).
