---
title: "§ 9561. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9561"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9561"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title XX, § 2002](/us/pl/116/94/dP/tXX/s2002), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3223](/us/stat/133/3223).)"
---
# § 9561. Definitions

##### § 9561. Definitions

(1) Early-stage project support The term “early-stage project support” includes—

(A) feasibility studies;

(B) resource evaluations;

(C) project appraisal and costing;

(D) pilot projects;

(E) commercial support, such as trade missions, reverse trade missions, technical workshops, international buyer programs, and international partner searchers to link suppliers to projects;

(F) technical assistance and other guidance to improve the local regulatory environment and market frameworks to encourage transparent competition and enhance energy security; and

(G) long-term energy sector planning.

(2) Late-stage project support The term “late-stage project support” includes debt financing, insurance, and transaction advisory services.

*([Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title XX, § 2002](/us/pl/116/94/dP/tXX/s2002), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3223](/us/stat/133/3223).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title XX of div. P of [Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3222](/us/stat/133/3222), which is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title XX to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9501 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9501) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the European Energy Security and Diversification Act of 2019, and also as part of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, and not as part of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 which comprises this chapter.
