---
title: "§ 44727. Runway safety areas"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44727"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44727"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–176, title V, § 502(a)](/us/pl/108/176/tV/s502/a), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2557](/us/stat/117/2557).)"
---
# § 44727. Runway safety areas

##### § 44727. Runway safety areas

(a) Airports in Alaska.— An airport owner or operator in the State of Alaska shall not be required to reduce the length of a runway or declare the length of a runway to be less than the actual pavement length in order to meet standards of the Federal Aviation Administration applicable to runway safety areas.

(b) Study.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary shall conduct a study of runways at airports in States other than Alaska to determine which airports are affected by standards of the Federal Aviation Administration applicable to runway safety areas and to assess how operations at those airports would be affected if the owner or operator of the airport is required to reduce the length of a runway or declare the length of a runway to be less than the actual pavement length in order to meet such standards.

(2) Report.— Not later than 9 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report containing the results of the study.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–176, title V, § 502(a)](/us/pl/108/176/tV/s502/a), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2557](/us/stat/117/2557).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176), which was approved Dec. 12, 2003.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
