---
title: "§ 1011. Mess operation: reimbursement of expenses"
identifier: "USC-T37-S1011"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section1011"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–513, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/96/513/tIV/s413), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2906](/us/stat/94/2906); amended [Pub. L. 99–145, title VIII, § 810(a)](/us/pl/99/145/tVIII/s810/a), Nov. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 681](/us/stat/99/681); [Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title VI, § 655](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tVI/s655), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3891](/us/stat/100/3891); [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title III, § 321](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tIII/s321), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1413](/us/stat/103/1413); [Pub. L. 104–"
---
# § 1011. Mess operation: reimbursement of expenses

##### § 1011. Mess operation: reimbursement of expenses

(a) The Secretary of Defense shall, by regulation, establish rates for meals sold at messes to officers, civilians, and enlisted members. Such rates shall be established at a level sufficient to provide reimbursement of operating expenses and food costs to the appropriations concerned, but members of the uniformed services and civilians in a travel status receiving a per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence shall be charged at a rate of not less than $2.50 per day. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Secretary determines that it is in the best interest of the United States, the Secretary may reduce a rate for meals established under this subsection by the amount of that rate attributable to operating expenses.

(b) For the purposes of this section, payment for meals at the rates established under this section may be made in cash or, in the case of enlisted members or civilian employees, by deduction from pay. Members of organized nonprofit youth groups sponsored at either the national or local level, when extended the privilege of visiting a military installation or when residing at a military installation pursuant to an agreement in effect on June 30, 1986, and permitted to eat in the general mess by the commanding officer of the installation, shall pay the commuted ration cost of such meal or meals.

(c) Spouses and dependent children of enlisted members in pay grades E–1, E–2, E–3, and E–4 may not be charged for meals sold at messes in excess of a level sufficient to cover food costs.

(d) When the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish rates for meals sold at Coast Guard dining facilities, provide for reimbursement of operating expenses and food costs to the appropriations concerned, and reduce the rates for such meals when the Secretary determines that it is in the best interest of the United States to do so.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–513, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/96/513/tIV/s413), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2906](/us/stat/94/2906); amended [Pub. L. 99–145, title VIII, § 810(a)](/us/pl/99/145/tVIII/s810/a), Nov. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 681](/us/stat/99/681); [Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title VI, § 655](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tVI/s655), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3891](/us/stat/100/3891); [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title III, § 321](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tIII/s321), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1413](/us/stat/103/1413); [Pub. L. 104–324, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/104/324/tII/s214/a), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3915](/us/stat/110/3915); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1704(c)](/us/pl/107/296/tXVII/s1704/c), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2314](/us/stat/116/2314).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) substituted “of Homeland Security” for “of Transportation”.

1996—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 104–324](/us/pl/104/324) added subsec. (d).

1989—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 101–189](/us/pl/101/189) substituted “and enlisted members” for “or enlisted members entitled to a per diem transportation allowance determined under [section 404(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t37/s404/d/2)” and inserted at end “Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Secretary determines that it is in the best interest of the United States, the Secretary may reduce a rate for meals established under this subsection by the amount of that rate attributable to operating expenses.”

1986—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–661](/us/pl/99/661) inserted “or when residing at a military installation pursuant to an agreement in effect on June 30, 1986,” in second sentence.

1985—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 99–145](/us/pl/99/145) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) effective on the date of transfer of the Coast Guard to the Department of Homeland Security, see [section 1704(g) of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s1704/g), set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–145](/us/pl/99/145) effective Oct. 1, 1985, see [section 813 of Pub. L. 99–145](/us/pl/99/145/s813), formerly set out in a Military Family Policy and Programs note under [section 113 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s113), Armed Forces.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Sept. 15, 1981, but the authority to prescribe regulations under this section effective on Dec. 12, 1980, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513/s701), set out as an Effective Date of 1980 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.
