---
title: "§ 665. Procedures for monitoring careers of joint qualified officers"
identifier: "USC-T10-S665"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section665"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–433, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/99/433/tIV/s401/a), Oct. 1, 1986, [100 Stat. 1028](/us/stat/100/1028); amended [Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417), [div. A], title V, § 522(c)(1), (2), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4445](/us/stat/122/4445).)"
---
# § 665. Procedures for monitoring careers of joint qualified officers

##### § 665. Procedures for monitoring careers of joint qualified officers

(a) Procedures.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense, with the advice of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall establish procedures for overseeing the careers of—

(A) officers designated as a joint qualified officer; and

(B) other officers who serve in joint duty assignments.

(2) Such oversight shall include monitoring of the implementation of the career guidelines established under [section 661(e) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s661/e).

(b) Function of Joint Staff.— The Secretary shall take such action as necessary to enhance the capabilities of the Joint Staff so that it can—

(1) monitor the promotions and career assignments of officers designated as a joint qualified officer and of other officers who have served in joint duty assignments; and

(2) otherwise advise the Chairman on joint personnel matters.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–433, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/99/433/tIV/s401/a), Oct. 1, 1986, [100 Stat. 1028](/us/stat/100/1028); amended [Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417), [div. A], title V, § 522(c)(1), (2), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4445](/us/stat/122/4445).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2008—[Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417) in section catchline substituted “joint qualified officers” for “joint officers” and in subsecs. (a)(1)(A) and (b)(1) substituted “designated as a joint qualified officer” for “with the joint specialty”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transition to Joint Officer Personnel Policy

Procedures under subsec. (a) of this section to be established not later than the end of the eight-month period beginning Oct. 1, 1986, and provisions of subsec. (b) of this section to be implemented not later than the end of such period, see [section 406(c) of Pub. L. 99–433](/us/pl/99/433/s406/c), set out as a note under [section 661 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s661).
