---
title: "§ 254c–10. Certain requirements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S254c–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section254c–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–505, title V, § 522](/us/pl/106/505/tV/s522), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2344](/us/stat/114/2344).)"
---
# § 254c–10. Certain requirements

##### § 254c–10. Certain requirements

(1) Not more than 5 percent of the grant will be used for administration, accounting, reporting, and program oversight functions.

(2) The grant will be used to supplement and not supplant funds from other sources related to the treatment of lupus.

(3) The applicant will abide by any limitations deemed appropriate by the Secretary on any charges to individuals receiving services pursuant to the grant. As deemed appropriate by the Secretary, such limitations on charges may vary based on the financial circumstances of the individual receiving services.

(4) The grant will not be expended to make payment for services authorized under [section 254c–9(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s254c–9/a) to the extent that payment has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made, with respect to such services—

(A) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy, or under any Federal or State health benefits program; or

(B) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.

(5) The applicant will, at each site at which the applicant provides services under [section 254c–9(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s254c–9/a), post a conspicuous notice informing individuals who receive the services of any Federal policies that apply to the applicant with respect to the imposition of charges on such individuals.

*([Pub. L. 106–505, title V, § 522](/us/pl/106/505/tV/s522), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2344](/us/stat/114/2344).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Lupus Research and Care Amendments of 2000, and also as part of the Public Health Improvement Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
