---
title: "§ 317. Special policemen"
identifier: "USC-T44-S317"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section317"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 91–359, § 1(a)](/us/pl/91/359/s1/a), July 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 668](/us/stat/84/668); amended [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/b), (c)(1), (i)(9), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537), 2539.)"
---
# § 317. Special policemen

##### § 317. Special policemen

The Director of the Government Publishing Office or a delegate of the Director may designate employees of the Government Publishing Office to serve as special policemen to protect persons and property in premises and adjacent areas occupied by or under the control of the Government Publishing Office. Under regulations to be prescribed by the Director of the Government Publishing Office, employees designated as special policemen are authorized to bear and use arms in the performance of their duties; make arrest for violations of laws of the United States, the several States, and the District of Columbia; and enforce the regulations of the Director of the Government Publishing Office, including the removal from Government Publishing Office premises of individuals who violate such regulations. The jurisdiction of special policemen in premises occupied by or under the control of the Government Publishing Office and adjacent areas shall be concurrent with the jurisdiction of the respective law enforcement agencies where the premises are located.

*(Added [Pub. L. 91–359, § 1(a)](/us/pl/91/359/s1/a), July 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 668](/us/stat/84/668); amended [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/b), (c)(1), (i)(9), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537), 2539.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(i)(9)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/i/9), substituted “a delegate of the Director” for “his delegate”.

[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/c/1), substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Government Publishing Office” substituted for “Government Printing Office” in text on authority of [section 1301(b) of Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/b), set out as a note preceding [section 301 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s301).
