---
title: "§ 2433. United States personnel missing in action in Southeast Asia"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2433"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2433"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–618, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/93/618/tIV/s403), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2060](/us/stat/88/2060).)"
---
# § 2433. United States personnel missing in action in Southeast Asia

##### § 2433. United States personnel missing in action in Southeast Asia

(a) Penalty for noncooperating countries Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the President determines that a nonmarket economy country is not cooperating with the United States—

then, during the period beginning with the date of such determination and ending on the date on which the President determines such country is cooperating with the United States, he may provide that—

(1) to achieve a complete accounting of all United States military and civilian personnel who are missing in action in Southeast Asia,

(2) to repatriate such personnel who are alive, and

(3) to return the remains of such personnel who are dead to the United States,

(A) the products of such country may not receive nondiscriminatory treatment,

(B) such country may not participate, directly or indirectly, in any program under which the United States extends credit, credit guarantees, or investment guarantees, and

(C) no commercial agreement entered into under this subchapter between such country and the United States will take effect.

(b) Exception This section shall not apply to any country the products of which are eligible for the rates set forth in rate column numbered 1 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States on January 3, 1975.

*([Pub. L. 93–618, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/93/618/tIV/s403), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2060](/us/stat/88/2060).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Tariff Schedules of the United States, referred to in subsec. (b), to be treated as a reference to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, pursuant to [section 3012 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3012). The Harmonized Tariff Schedule is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under [section 1202 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1202).
