---
title: "§ 24701. National rail passenger transportation system"
identifier: "USC-T49-S24701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section24701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 923](/us/stat/108/923); [Pub. L. 105–134, title I, § 101(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/134/tI/s101/a/1), Dec. 2, 1997, [111 Stat. 2572](/us/stat/111/2572).)"
---
# § 24701. National rail passenger transportation system

##### § 24701. National rail passenger transportation system

Amtrak shall operate a national rail passenger transportation system which ties together existing and emergent regional rail passenger service and other intermodal passenger service.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 923](/us/stat/108/923); [Pub. L. 105–134, title I, § 101(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/134/tI/s101/a/1), Dec. 2, 1997, [111 Stat. 2572](/us/stat/111/2572).)*

In subsection (a), before clause (1), the text of 45:561(b) (1st sentence words after 3d comma) is omitted as obsolete because no regional transportation authority provided intercity rail passenger transportation after May 1, 1971. The words “On May 1, 1971” and “begin” are omitted as executed. The words “between points” and “either” are omitted as surplus. In clause (2), the words “under contract with Amtrak” are substituted for 45:561(b) (last sentence) for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “at any time subsequent to May 1, 1971” are omitted as executed.

In subsection (b), the words “concerning auto-ferry service . . . railroad or any other” are omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 24701(a) | 45:561(b). | Oct. 30, 1970, Pub. L. 91–518, § 401(b), 84 Stat. 1335. |
| 24701(b) | 45:561(c). | Oct. 30, 1970, Pub. L. 91–518, § 401(c), 84 Stat. 1335; Nov. 3, 1973, Pub. L. 93–146, § 9, 87 Stat. 551. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1997—[Pub. L. 105–134](/us/pl/105/134) substituted section catchline for former catchline which read “Operation of basic system” and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(a) By Amtrak.—Amtrak shall provide intercity rail passenger transportation within the basic system unless the transportation is provided by—

“(1) a rail carrier with which Amtrak did not make a contract under section 401(a) of the Rail Passenger Service Act; or

“(2) a regional transportation authority under contract with Amtrak.

“(b) By Others With Consent of Amtrak.—Except as provided in [section 24306 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s24306), a person may provide intercity rail passenger transportation over a route over which Amtrak provides scheduled intercity rail passenger transportation under a contract under section 401(a) of the Act only with the consent of Amtrak.”
