---
title: "§ 3201. Program on advancement of foreign languages critical to the intelligence community"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3201"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3201"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title X, § 1011, as added [Pub. L. 108–487, title VI, § 612(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/487/tVI/s612/a/2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3955](/us/stat/118/3955).)"
---
# § 3201. Program on advancement of foreign languages critical to the intelligence community

##### § 3201. Program on advancement of foreign languages critical to the intelligence community

(a) In general The Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence may jointly carry out a program to advance skills in foreign languages that are critical to the capability of the intelligence community to carry out the national security activities of the United States (hereinafter in this part referred to as the “Foreign Languages Program”).

(b) Identification of requisite actions In order to carry out the Foreign Languages Program, the Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence shall jointly identify actions required to improve the education of personnel in the intelligence community in foreign languages that are critical to the capability of the intelligence community to carry out the national security activities of the United States and to meet the long-term intelligence needs of the United States.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title X, § 1011, as added [Pub. L. 108–487, title VI, § 612(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/487/tVI/s612/a/2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3955](/us/stat/118/3955).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 441j of this title](/us/usc/t50/s441j) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Pilot Program for Intensive Language Instruction in African Languages

[Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 314](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s314), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2666](/us/stat/124/2666), provided that: “(a) Establishment.—The Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the National Security Education Board established under section 803(a) of the David L. Boren National Security Education Act of 1991 ([50 U.S.C. 1903(a)](/us/usc/t50/s1903/a)), may establish a pilot program for intensive language instruction in African languages. “(b) Program.—A pilot program established under subsection (a) shall provide scholarships for programs that provide intensive language instruction—“(1) in any of the five highest priority African languages for which scholarships are not offered under the David L. Boren National Security Education Act of 1991 ([50 U.S.C. 1901](/us/usc/t50/s1901) et seq.), as determined by the Director of National Intelligence; and “(2) both in the United States and in a country in which the language is the native language of a significant portion of the population, as determined by the Director of National Intelligence. “(c) Termination.—A pilot program established under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is five years after the date on which such pilot program is established. “(d) Authorization of Appropriations.—“(1) In general.—There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000. “(2) Availability.—Funds authorized to be appropriated under paragraph (1) shall remain available until the termination of the pilot program in accordance with subsection (c).”
