---
title: "§ 6454. Responsibilities of Federal agency members"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6454"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6454"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title C, § 10014](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tC/s10014), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3953](/us/stat/136/3953).)"
---
# § 6454. Responsibilities of Federal agency members

##### § 6454. Responsibilities of Federal agency members

(a) In general A member of the Task Force described in [section 6453(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6453/a) shall—

(1) identify the actions of the agency that member represents that may affect coral reef ecosystems;

(2) use the programs and authorities of that agency to protect and enhance the conditions of such ecosystems, including through the promotion of basic and applied scientific research;

(3) collaborate with the Task Force to appropriately reflect budgetary needs for coral reef conservation and restoration activities in all agency budget planning and justification documents and processes; and

(4) engage in any other coordinated efforts approved by the Task Force.

(b) Co-chairpersons In addition to their responsibilities under subsection (a), the co-chairpersons of the Task Force shall perform the administrative functions of the Task Force and facilitate the coordination of the members of the Task Force described in [section 6453(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6453/a).

(c) Briefing Not less than 30 days before each meeting of the Task Force, the program offices of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration responsible for implementing this title shall provide a briefing to the relevant congressional committees on efforts and spending associated with such implementation.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title C, § 10014](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tC/s10014), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3953](/us/stat/136/3953).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in subsec. (c), means title C of division J of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), which enacted this chapter and sections 6401 to 6415 of this title, amended [section 7504 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s7504), repealed sections 6401 to 6409 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 6401 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6401). For complete classification of title C to the Code, see Tables.
