---
title: "§ 4001. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T12-S4001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section4001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–86, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/100/86/tVI/s602), Aug. 10, 1987, [101 Stat. 635](/us/stat/101/635); [Pub. L. 115–174, title II, § 208(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/174/tII/s208/a/1), May 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/132/1312).)"
---
# § 4001. Definitions

##### § 4001. Definitions

(1) Account The term “account” means a demand deposit account or other similar transaction account at a depository institution.

(2) Board The term “Board” means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

(3) Business day The term “business day” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

(4) Cash The term “cash” means United States coins and currency, including Federal Reserve notes.

(5) Cashier’s check The term “cashier’s check” means any check which—

(A) is drawn on a depository institution;

(B) is signed by an officer or employee of such depository institution; and

(C) is a direct obligation of such depository institution.

(6) Certified check The term “certified check” means any check with respect to which a depository institution certifies that—

(A) the signature on the check is genuine; and

(B) such depository institution has set aside funds which—

(i) are equal to the amount of the check; and

(ii) will be used only to pay such check.

(7) Check The term “check” means any negotiable demand draft drawn on or payable through an office of a depository institution located in the United States. Such term does not include noncash items.

(8) Check clearinghouse association The term “check clearinghouse association” means any arrangement by which participant depository institutions exchange deposited checks on a local basis, including an entire metropolitan area, without using the check processing facilities of the Federal Reserve System.

(9) Check processing region The term “check processing region” means the geographical area served by a Federal Reserve bank check processing center or such larger area as the Board may prescribe by regulations.

(10) Consumer account The term “consumer account” means any account used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.

(11) Depository check The term “depository check” means any cashier’s check, certified check, teller’s check, and any other functionally equivalent instrument as determined by the Board.

(12) Depository institution The term “depository institution” has the meaning given such term in clauses (i) through (vi) of [section 461(b)(1)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s461/b/1/A). Such term also includes an office, branch, or agency of a foreign bank located in the United States.

(13) Local originating depository institution The term “local originating depository institution” means any originating depository institution which is located in the same check processing region as the receiving depository institution.

(14) Noncash item The term “noncash item” means—

(A) a check or other demand item to which a passbook, certificate, or other document is attached;

(B) a check or other demand item which is accompanied by special instructions, such as a request for special advise of payment or dishonor; or

(C) any similar item which is otherwise classified as a noncash item in regulations of the Board.

(15) Nonlocal originating depository institution The term “nonlocal originating depository institution” means any originating depository institution which is not a local depository institution.

(16) Proprietary ATM The term “proprietary ATM” means an automated teller machine which is—

(A) located—

(i) at or adjacent to a branch of the receiving depository institution; or

(ii) in close proximity, as defined by the Board, to a branch of the receiving depository institution; or

(B) owned by, operated exclusively for, or operated by the receiving depository institution.

(17) Originating depository institution The term “originating depository institution” means the branch of a depository institution on which a check is drawn.

(18) Nonproprietary ATM The term “nonproprietary ATM” means an automated teller machine which is not a proprietary ATM.

(19) Participant The term “participant” means a depository institution which—

(A) is located in the same geographic area as that served by a check clearinghouse association; and

(B) exchanges checks through the check clearinghouse association, either directly or through an intermediary.

(20) Receiving depository institution The term “receiving depository institution” means the branch of a depository institution or the proprietary ATM, located in the United States, in which a check is first deposited.

(21) State The term “State” means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, or the Virgin Islands.

(22) Teller’s check The term “teller’s check” means any check issued by a depository institution and drawn on another depository institution.

(23) United States The term “United States” means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.

(24) Unit of general local government The term “unit of general local government” means any city, county, town, township, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State.

(25) Wire transfer The term “wire transfer” has such meaning as the Board shall prescribe by regulations.

*([Pub. L. 100–86, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/100/86/tVI/s602), Aug. 10, 1987, [101 Stat. 635](/us/stat/101/635); [Pub. L. 115–174, title II, § 208(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/174/tII/s208/a/1), May 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/132/1312).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title VI of [Pub. L. 100–86](/us/pl/100/86), Aug. 10, 1987, [101 Stat. 635](/us/stat/101/635), known as the Expedited Funds Availability Act, which enacted this chapter, amended [section 248a of this title](/us/usc/t12/s248a), and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 248a and 4001 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note below and Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—Par. (20). [Pub. L. 115–174, § 208(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/174/s208/a/1/A), inserted “, located in the United States,” after “ATM”.

Pars. (21), (23). [Pub. L. 115–174, § 208(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/174/s208/a/1/B), (C), inserted “American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam,” after “Puerto Rico,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–174, title II, § 208(b)](/us/pl/115/174/tII/s208/b), May 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 1313](/us/stat/132/1313), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and [section 4002 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s4002)] shall take effect on the date that is 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act [May 24, 2018].”

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 100–86, title VI, § 613](/us/pl/100/86/tVI/s613), Aug. 10, 1987, [101 Stat. 652](/us/stat/101/652), provided that: “(a) Date of Enactment.—Except as provided in subsection (b), this title [enacting this chapter, amending [section 248a of this title](/us/usc/t12/s248a), and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 248a of this title](/us/usc/t12/s248a)] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this title [Aug. 10, 1987]. “(b) 1 Year After Date of Enactment.—Sections 603, 604, 605, 606, 610, and 611 [enacting sections 4002 to 4005, 4009, and 4010 of this title] shall take effect on September 1, 1988.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 100–86, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/100/86/tVI/s601), Aug. 10, 1987, [101 Stat. 635](/us/stat/101/635), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter, amending [section 248a of this title](/us/usc/t12/s248a), and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 248a of this title](/us/usc/t12/s248a)] may be cited as the ‘Expedited Funds Availability Act’.”

#### Separability

If any provision of [Pub. L. 100–86](/us/pl/100/86) or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of [Pub. L. 100–86](/us/pl/100/86) and the application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other circumstances not to be affected thereby, see [section 1205 of Pub. L. 100–86](/us/pl/100/86/s1205), set out as a note under [section 226 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s226).
