---
title: "§ 40728. Transfer of firearms, ammunition, and parts"
identifier: "USC-T36-S40728"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section40728"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1339](/us/stat/112/1339); [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, § 1087(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tX/s1087/a/1), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1012](/us/stat/129/1012); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title III, § 349](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tIII/s349), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1366](/us/stat/131/1366).)"
---
# § 40728. Transfer of firearms, ammunition, and parts

##### § 40728. Transfer of firearms, ammunition, and parts

(a) Required Transfers.— In accordance with subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Army shall transfer to the corporation all firearms and ammunition that, on February 9, 1996, were under the control of the director of civilian marksmanship (as that position existed under [section 4307 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s4307) on February 9, 1996), including—

(1) all firearms on loan to affiliated clubs and State associations;

(2) all firearms in the possession of the Civilian Marksmanship Support Detachment; and

(3) all M–1 Garand and caliber .22 rimfire rifles stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Anniston, Alabama.

(b) Time for Transfers.— The Secretary shall transfer firearms and ammunition under subsection (a) of this section as and when necessary to enable the corporation—

(1) to issue or loan firearms or ammunition under [section 40731 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s40731); or

(2) to sell firearms or ammunition under [section 40732 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s40732).

(c) Vesting of Title in Transferred Items.— Title to an item transferred to the corporation under this section shall vest in the corporation—

(1) on the issuance of the item to an eligible recipient under [section 40731 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s40731); or

(2) immediately before the corporation delivers the item to a purchaser in accordance with a contract for sale of the item that is authorized under [section 40732 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s40732).

(d) Storage of Firearms.— Firearms stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Anniston, Alabama, before February 10, 1996, and used for the Civilian Marksmanship Program (as that program existed under [section 4308(e) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s4308/e) before February 10, 1996), shall remain at that facility or another storage facility designated by the Secretary, without cost to the corporation, until the firearms are issued, loaned, or sold by the corporation, or otherwise transferred to the corporation.

(e) Discretionary Transfer of Parts.— The Secretary may transfer from the inventory of the Department of the Army to the corporation any part from a rifle designated to be demilitarized.

(f) Limitation on Demilitarization of M–1 Rifles.— After February 10, 1996, the Secretary may not demilitarize an M–1 Garand rifle in the inventory of the Army unless the Defense Logistics Agency decides the rifle is unserviceable.

(g) Cost of Transfers.— A transfer of firearms, ammunition, or parts to the corporation under this section shall be made without cost to the corporation, except that the corporation shall assume the cost of preparation and transportation of firearms and ammunition transferred under this section.

(h) Authorized Transfers.—

(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may transfer to the corporation, in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this subchapter, surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols and spare parts and related accessories for those pistols that, on the date of the enactment of this subsection, are under the control of the Secretary and are surplus to the requirements of the Department of the Army, and such material as may be recovered by the Secretary pursuant to [section 40728A(a) of this title](/us/usc/t36/s40728A/a). The Secretary shall determine a reasonable schedule for the transfer of such surplus pistols.

(2) The Secretary may not transfer more than 10,000 surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols to the corporation during any year and may only transfer such pistols as long as pistols described in paragraph (1) remain available for transfer.

(i) Authorized Navy Transfers.—

(1) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of the Navy may transfer to the corporation, in accordance with the procedures prescribed in this subchapter, M–1 Garand and caliber .22 rimfire rifles held within the inventories of the United States Navy and the United States Marine Corps and stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Alabama, or Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane, Indiana, as of the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.

(2) The items specified for transfer under paragraph (1)—

(A) shall be used as awards for competitors in marksmanship competitions held by the United States Marine Corps or the United States Navy and may not be resold; and

(B) shall be rendered inoperable prior to award and transfer to marksmanship competitors.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1339](/us/stat/112/1339); [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, § 1087(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tX/s1087/a/1), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1012](/us/stat/129/1012); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title III, § 349](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tIII/s349), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1366](/us/stat/131/1366).)*

In subsection (a), the words “director of civilian marksmanship (as that position existed under [section 4307 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s4307) on February 9, 1996)” are substituted for “Director of the Civilian Marksmanship Program” to avoid confusion with the office of the Director of Civilian Marksmanship created on February 10, 1996, by section 1611(d) of The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996 ([Public Law 104–106](/us/pl/104/106), [110 Stat. 516](/us/stat/110/516)).

In subsection (b), the words “firearms or ammunition” are substituted for “such items” for clarity. In clause (2), the words “to purchasers” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (c)(1), the words “eligible recipient” are substituted for “recipient eligible . . . to receive the item” to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (c)(2), the word “purchaser” is substituted for “purchaser of the item” to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (d), the words “(as that program existed under [section 4308(e) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s4308/e) before February 10, 1996)” are added for clarity. The words “issued, loaned, or sold by the corporation” are substituted for “issued, loaned, or sold by” for clarity.

In subsection (e), the words “transfer . . . to” are substituted for “make available to” for consistency in the revised section and in consideration of the words “transfer of . . . parts to” in 36:5505(e).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40728(a) | 36:5505(a). | Feb. 10, 1996, Pub. L. 104–106, title XVI, §§ 1615, 1616(b), (c), 110 Stat. 518, 519; Sept. 23, 1996, Pub. L. 104–201, title X, § 1073(c)(1), (2), 110 Stat. 2657. |
| 40728(b) | 36:5505(b). |  |
| 40728(c) | 36:5505(d). |  |
| 40728(d) | 36:5506(b). |  |
| 40728(e) | 36:5505(c). |  |
| 40728(f) | 36:5506(c). |  |
| 40728(g) | 36:5505(e). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 4307 and 4308 of title 10, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), were repealed by [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XVI, § 1624(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXVI/s1624/a/1), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 522](/us/stat/110/522).

The date of the enactment of this subsection, referred to in subsec. (h)(1), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 114–92](/us/pl/114/92), which was approved Nov. 25, 2015.

The date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, referred to in subsec. (i), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91), which was approved Dec. 12, 2017.

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) added subsec. (i).

2015—Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 114–92](/us/pl/114/92) added subsec. (h).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfers of Surplus Firearms to Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety: Pilot Program and Limitation

[Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, § 1087(b)](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tX/s1087/b), (c), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1013](/us/stat/129/1013), 1014, which related to a one-year pilot program under which the Secretary could transfer to the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety certain firearms, was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1091(c)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1091/c), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1608](/us/stat/131/1608).
