---
title: "§ 32304B. Child safety"
identifier: "USC-T49-S32304B"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section32304B"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title IV, § 24222(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tIV/s24222/a/1), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 835](/us/stat/135/835).)"
---
# § 32304B. Child safety

##### § 32304B. Child safety

(a) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Passenger motor vehicle.— The term “passenger motor vehicle” has the meaning given that term in section 32101.

(2) Rear-designated seating position.— The term “rear-designated seating position” means designated seating positions that are rearward of the front seat.

(3) Secretary.— The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Transportation.

(b) Rulemaking.— Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue a final rule requiring all new passenger motor vehicles weighing less than 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight to be equipped with a system to alert the operator to check rear-designated seating positions after the vehicle engine or motor is deactivated by the operator.

(c) Means.— The alert required under subsection (b)—

(1) shall include a distinct auditory and visual alert, which may be combined with a haptic alert; and

(2) shall be activated when the vehicle motor is deactivated by the operator.

(d) Phase-in.— The rule issued pursuant to subsection (b) shall require full compliance with the rule beginning on September 1st of the first calendar year that begins 2 years after the date on which the final rule is issued.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title IV, § 24222(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tIV/s24222/a/1), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 835](/us/stat/135/835).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (b), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), which was approved Nov. 15, 2021.
