---
title: "§ 1421f. Title to property transferred"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1421f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1421f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, § 28](/us/act/1950-08-01/ch512/s28), [64 Stat. 392](/us/stat/64/392); [Pub. L. 90–497, § 12(b)](/us/pl/90/497/s12/b), Sept. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 848](/us/stat/82/848).)"
---
# § 1421f. Title to property transferred

##### § 1421f. Title to property transferred

(a) Property employed by naval government of Guam The title to all property, real and personal, owned by the United States and employed by the naval government of Guam in the administration of the civil affairs of the inhabitants of Guam, including automotive and other equipment, tools and machinery, water and sewerage facilities, bus lines and other utilities, hospitals, schools, and other buildings, shall be transferred to the government of Guam within ninety days after August 1, 1950.

(b) Other property not reserved All other property, real and personal, owned by the United States in Guam, not reserved by the President of the United States within ninety days after August 1, 1950, is placed under the control of the government of Guam, to be administered for the benefit of the people of Guam, and the legislature shall have authority, subject to such limitations as may be imposed upon its acts by this chapter or subsequent Act of the Congress, to legislate with respect to such property, real and personal, in such manner as it may deem desirable.

(c) Secretary of the Interior; sale or lease All property owned by the United States in Guam, the title to which is not transferred to the government of Guam by subsection (a) hereof, or which is not placed under the control of the government of Guam by subsection (b) hereof, is transferred to the administrative supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, except as the President may from time to time otherwise prescribe: *Provided*, That the Secretary of the Interior shall be authorized to lease or to sell, on such terms as he may deem in the public interest, any property, real and personal, of the United States under his administrative supervision in Guam not needed for public purposes.

*([Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, § 28](/us/act/1950-08-01/ch512/s28), [64 Stat. 392](/us/stat/64/392); [Pub. L. 90–497, § 12(b)](/us/pl/90/497/s12/b), Sept. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 848](/us/stat/82/848).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1968—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 90–497](/us/pl/90/497) substituted “The Secretary of the Interior” for “the head of the department or agency designated by the President under [section 1421a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1421a)” in text of subsec. (c) and “the Secretary of the Interior” for “the head of such department or agency” in proviso.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–497](/us/pl/90/497) necessary to authorize the holding of an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov. 3, 1970, effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments unless otherwise provided effective Jan. 4, 1971, see [section 13 of Pub. L. 90–497](/us/pl/90/497/s13), set out as a note under [section 1422 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1422).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 10178. Reservation of Property in Guam for Use of United States

Ex. Ord. No. 10178, eff. Oct. 30, 1950, 15 F.R. 7313, provided:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said section 28 of the Organic Act of Guam [this section] and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:

1. The following-described real and personal property of the United States in Guam is hereby reserved to the United States and placed under the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy: *Provided*, That the Secretary of the Navy shall transfer such portions of such property to the Department of the Army, the Department of the Air Force, and the Coast Guard as may be required for their respective purposes:

(a) All of that real property in Guam situated within the perimeter areas defined in the following-designated condemnation proceedings in the Superior Court of Guam, being the same property quitclaimed by the Naval Government of Guam to the United States of America by deed dated July 31, 1950, and filed for record with the Land Registrar of Guam on August 4, 1950 (Presentation No. 22063):

(b) The road system and utilities systems described in the said deed between the Naval Government of Guam and the United States of America dated July 31, 1950.

(c) The following-described areas: Mount Lam Lam Light; Rear Range Light; Mount Aluton Light; Area Number 35 Culverts; Mount Santa Rosa Light; 36 acres of Camp Witek; Adelup Reservoir; Tripartite Seismograph Station Site, Land Unit M, Section 2, Land Square 20; the Power Sub-station located on Lot 266, Municipality of Agat adjacent to Erskine Drive, City of Agat.

(d) Lots 2285–5 and 2306–1 in Barrigada.

(e) All personal property relating to or used in connection with any of the above-described real property.

2. The following-described real property of the United States in Guam is hereby reserved to the United States and transferred to the administrative supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, and shall be available for disposition by the Secretary of the Interior in his discretion under section 28(c) of the said Organic Act of Guam [subsection (c) of this section]:

All of those lands which have been selected by the Secretary of the Navy for transfer or sale pursuant to the act of November 15, 1945, [59 Stat. 584](/us/stat/59/584), to persons in replacement of lands acquired for military or naval purposes in Guam, a list and description of such lands being on file in the Department of the Navy.

3. In addition to the personal property described in paragraph 1(e) hereof, there is hereby reserved to the United States all personal property of the United States in Guam, except that which is transferred to the government of Guam by or pursuant to section 28 (a) of the Organic Act of Guam, which on the date of this order is in the custody or control of the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Air Force, the Coast Guard, or any other department or agency of the United States; and all such personal property shall remain in the custody and control of the department or agency having custody and control thereof on the date of this order.

| Condemnation proceedings Civil No. | Perimeter area | Facility |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ................. | *Acres* |  |
| 2–48 | 4,566.757 | North Field. |
| 5–48 | 9.372 | Mt. Santa Rosa Water Reservoir and Supply Lines. |
| 6–48 | 5.990 | Mt. Santa Rosa-Marbo Water Lines. |
| 7–48 | 5.990 | Tumon Maui Well Site. |
| 2–49 | 4,803.000 | Naval Ammunition Depot. |
| 3–49 | 44.651 | Primary Transmission Line. |
| 4–49 | 12.169 | Mt. Santa Rosa-Marbo Water Line Easement. |
| 5–49 | 6,332.000 | Apra Harbor Reservation. |
| 2–50 | 6.450 | Aceorp Tunnel. |
| 3–50 | 35.391 | Camp Dealy. |
| 4–50 | 0.637 | Tumon Bay Recreation Area Utility Lines. |
| 5–50 | 24.914 | Agana Springs. |
| 6–50 | 41.360 | Asan Point Tank Farm. |
| 7–50 | 85.032 | Asan Point Housing. |
| 8–50 | 137.393 | Medical Center. |
| 9–50 | 45.630 | Agafo Gumas. |
| 10–50 | 4,798.682 | Naval Communication Station. |
| 11–50 | 11.726 | Nimitz Beach. |
| 12–50 | 800.443 | Command Center. |
| 13–50 | 4,901.100 | Tarague Natural Wells. |
| 14–50 | 5.945 | Agana Diesel Electric Generating plant. |
| 15–50 | 23.708 | Mt. Santa Rosa Haul Road, Water Reservoir and Supply Lines, VHF Relay Station, Mt. Santa Rosa-Marbo Water Line. |
| 16–50 | 4,562.107 | Northwest Air Force Base. |
| 18–50 | 60.480 | Marbo Base Command Area—Sewage Disposal. |
| 19–50 | 21.695 | Loran Station, Cocos Island. |
| 20–50 | 15.322 | Av-Gas Tank Farm #12. |
| 21–50 | 1,820.148 | Proposed Boundary of NAS Agana, Housing Area #7. |
| 22–50 | 37.519 | C. A. A. Site (Area #90). |
| 23–50 | 3.575 | Tumon Maui Well (Water Tunnel). |
| 24–50 | 49.277 | Tumon Bay Recreation Area (Road and AV-Gas Fuel Line Parcel #1). |
| 25–50 | 0.208 | Utility Easement from Rt. #1 to Rt. #6 (Coontz Junction). |
| 26–50 | 65.300 | Tumon Bay Recreation Area (Area #78). |
| 27–50 | 2,497.400 | Marbo Base Command. |
| 28–50 | 0.918 | Mt. Tenjo VHF Station Site. |
| 29–50 | 285.237 | Sasa Valley Tank Farm (Area #26). |
| 30–50 | 17.793 | Sub Transmission System Piti Steam Plant to Command Center. |
| 31–50 | 28.888 | Route #1 (Marine Drive) (Portion). |
| 32–50 | 94.000 | Sub Transmission System (34 KV Line) Piti Steam Plant to Agana Diesel Plant and POL System Sasa Valley Tank Farm to NAS Agana. |
| 33–50 | 953.000 | Harmon Air Force Base. |
| 34–50 | 2,922.000 | Radio Barrigada. |
| 35–50 | 25.000 | AACS Radio Range (Area #30). |
| 36–50 | 37.000 | Water Line Apra Heights Reservoir to Fena Pump Station and Av-Gas Fuel System. |
| 37–50 | 2,185.000 | Fena River Reservoir. |
