---
title: "§ 300a–4. Grants and contracts"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300a–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300a–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title X, § 1006, as added [Pub. L. 91–572, § 6(c)](/us/pl/91/572/s6/c), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1507](/us/stat/84/1507); amended [Pub. L. 94–63, title II, § 204(c)](/us/pl/94/63/tII/s204/c), (d), July 29, 1975, [89 Stat. 308](/us/stat/89/308); [Pub. L. 95–613, § 1(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/613/s1/a/2), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/92/3093).)"
---
# § 300a–4. Grants and contracts

##### § 300a–4. Grants and contracts

(a) Promulgation of regulations governing execution; amount of grants Grants and contracts made under this subchapter shall be made in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary may promulgate. The amount of any grant under any section of this subchapter shall be determined by the Secretary; except that no grant under any such section for any program or project for a fiscal year beginning after June 30, 1975, may be made for less than 90 per centum of its costs (as determined under regulations of the Secretary) unless the grant is to be made for a program or project for which a grant was made (under the same section) for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975, for less than 90 per centum of its costs (as so determined), in which case a grant under such section for that program or project for a fiscal year beginning after that date may be made for a percentage which shall not be less than the percentage of its costs for which the fiscal year 1975 grant was made.

(b) Payment of grants Grants under this subchapter shall be payable in such installments and subject to such conditions as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate to assure that such grants will be effectively utilized for the purposes for which made.

(c) Prerequisites; “low-income family” defined A grant may be made or contract entered into under section 300 or 300a of this title for a family planning service project or program only upon assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that—

For purposes of this subsection, the term “low-income family” shall be defined by the Secretary in accordance with such criteria as he may prescribe so as to insure that economic status shall not be a deterrent to participation in the programs assisted under this subchapter.

(1) priority will be given in such project or program to the furnishing of such services to persons from low-income families; and

(2) no charge will be made in such project or program for services provided to any person from a low-income family except to the extent that payment will be made by a third party (including a government agency) which is authorized or is under legal obligation to pay such charge.

(d) Suitability of informational or educational materials

(1) A grant may be made or a contract entered into under section 300 or 300a–3 of this title only upon assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that informational or educational materials developed or made available under the grant or contract will be suitable for the purposes of this subchapter and for the population or community to which they are to be made available, taking into account the educational and cultural background of the individuals to whom such materials are addressed and the standards of such population or community with respect to such materials.

(2) In the case of any grant or contract under [section 300 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300), such assurances shall provide for the review and approval of the suitability of such materials, prior to their distribution, by an advisory committee established by the grantee or contractor in accordance with the Secretary’s regulations. Such a committee shall include individuals broadly representative of the population or community to which the materials are to be made available.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title X, § 1006, as added [Pub. L. 91–572, § 6(c)](/us/pl/91/572/s6/c), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1507](/us/stat/84/1507); amended [Pub. L. 94–63, title II, § 204(c)](/us/pl/94/63/tII/s204/c), (d), July 29, 1975, [89 Stat. 308](/us/stat/89/308); [Pub. L. 95–613, § 1(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/613/s1/a/2), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/92/3093).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–613](/us/pl/95/613) added subsec. (d).

1975—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–63, § 204(c)](/us/pl/94/63/s204/c), inserted provisions relating to amount of grants authorized pursuant to sections of this subchapter.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 94–63, § 204(d)](/us/pl/94/63/s204/d), inserted provision relating to economic status as part of the criteria to be included within definition of “low-income family”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1975 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–63](/us/pl/94/63) effective July 1, 1975, see [section 608 of Pub. L. 94–63](/us/pl/94/63/s608), set out as a note under [section 247b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247b).
