---
title: "§ 271. Penalties for violation of quarantine laws"
identifier: "USC-T42-S271"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section271"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 368, [58 Stat. 706](/us/stat/58/706); [June 25, 1948, ch. 646, § 1](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646/s1), [62 Stat. 909](/us/stat/62/909); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, §§ 5, 8, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631).)"
---
# § 271. Penalties for violation of quarantine laws

##### § 271. Penalties for violation of quarantine laws

(a) Penalties for persons violating quarantine laws Any person who violates any regulation prescribed under sections 264 to 266 of this title, or any provision of [section 269 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s269) or any regulation prescribed thereunder, or who enters or departs from the limits of any quarantine station, ground, or anchorage in disregard of quarantine rules and regulations or without permission of the quarantine officer in charge, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.

(b) Penalties for vessels violating quarantine laws Any vessel which violates [section 269 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s269), or any regulations thereunder or under [section 267 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s267), or which enters within or departs from the limits of any quarantine station, ground, or anchorage in disregard of the quarantine rules and regulations or without permission of the officer in charge, shall forfeit to the United States not more than $5,000, the amount to be determined by the court, which shall be a lien on such vessel, to be recovered by proceedings in the proper district court of the United States. In all such proceedings the United States attorney shall appear on behalf of the United States; and all such proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the rules and laws governing cases of seizure of vessels for violation of the revenue laws of the United States.

(c) Remittance or mitigation of forfeitures With the approval of the Secretary, the Surgeon General may, upon application therefor, remit or mitigate any forfeiture provided for under subsection (b) of this section, and he shall have authority to ascertain the facts upon all such applications.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 368, [58 Stat. 706](/us/stat/58/706); [June 25, 1948, ch. 646, § 1](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646/s1), [62 Stat. 909](/us/stat/62/909); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, §§ 5, 8, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

Act June 25, 1948, eff. Sept. 1, 1948, substituted “United States attorney” for “United States district attorney”. See [section 541 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s541), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, and Historical and Revision note thereunder.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Office of Surgeon General abolished by section 3 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, eff. June 25, 1966, 31 F.R. 8855, [80 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/80/1610), and functions thereof transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 1 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202). Office of Surgeon General reestablished within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, see Notice of Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Mar. 30, 1987, 52 F.R. 11754.

Functions of Federal Security Administrator transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and all agencies of Federal Security Agency transferred to Department of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 5 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953, set out as a note under [section 3501 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3501). Federal Security Agency and office of Administrator abolished by section 8 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953.
