---
title: "§ 2401. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–206, § 2](/us/pl/116/206/s2), Dec. 4, 2020, [134 Stat. 998](/us/stat/134/998).)"
---
# § 2401. Definitions

##### § 2401. Definitions

(1) Anti-doping organization The term “anti-doping organization” has the meaning given the term in Article 2 of the Convention.

(2) Athlete The term “athlete” has the meaning given the term in Article 2 of the Convention.

(3) Code The term “Code” means the World Anti-Doping Code most recently adopted by WADA on March 5, 2003.

(4) Convention The term “Convention” means the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization International Convention Against Doping in Sport done at Paris October 19, 2005, and ratified by the United States in 2008.

(5) Major international sport competition The term “Major International Sport Competition”— 11 So in original. Term is not capitalized as used in this chapter.

(A) means a competition—

(i) in which one or more United States athletes and three or more athletes from other countries participate;

(ii) that is governed by the anti-doping rules and principles of the Code; and

(iii) in which—

(I) the competition organizer or sanctioning body receives sponsorship or other financial support from an organization doing business in the United States; or

(II) the competition organizer or sanctioning body receives compensation for the right to broadcast the competition in the United States; and

(B) includes a competition that is a single event or a competition that consists of a series of events held at different times which, when combined, qualify an athlete or team for an award or other recognition.

(6) Person The term “person” means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other entity.

(7) Prohibited method The term “prohibited method” has the meaning given the term in Article 2 of the Convention.

(8) Prohibited substance The term “prohibited substance” has the meaning given the term in Article 2 of the Convention.

(9) Scheme in commerce The term “scheme in commerce” means any scheme effectuated in whole or in part through the use in interstate or foreign commerce of any facility for transportation or communication.

(10) USADA The term “USADA” means the United States Anti-Doping Agency.

(11) WADA The term “WADA” means the World Anti-Doping Agency.

*([Pub. L. 116–206, § 2](/us/pl/116/206/s2), Dec. 4, 2020, [134 Stat. 998](/us/stat/134/998).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 116–206, § 1](/us/pl/116/206/s1), Dec. 4, 2020, [134 Stat. 998](/us/stat/134/998), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter and amending [section 3663A of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3663A), Crimes and Criminal Procedure] may be cited as the ‘Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act of 2019’.”
