---
title: "§ 103501. Establishment"
identifier: "USC-T54-S103501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section103501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–289, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/114/289/tI/s101/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1483](/us/stat/130/1483).)"
---
# § 103501. Establishment

##### § 103501. Establishment

(a) In General.— There is established in the Treasury an account to be known as the National Park Centennial Challenge Fund.

(b) Deposits.— All amounts received by the United States each fiscal year from sales by the National Park Service of National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Passes under section 805(b)(1) of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act that are in excess of $10,000,000 shall be deposited into the National Park Centennial Challenge Fund as offsetting collections and shall remain available to the Secretary until expended.

(c) Use of Funds.— Funds collected and deposited into the National Park Centennial Challenge Fund—

(1) shall be used for projects or programs approved by the Secretary to further the mission of the Service and to enhance the visitor experience in System units;

(2) may not be used to acquire lands or interest in lands; and

(3) may only be used if matched, on at least a 1-to-1 basis, by non-Federal donations (including funds and fairly valued durable goods and materials) to the Service for signature projects or programs.

(d) Limitation on Source of Funds for Matching.— Amounts derived from the Second Century Endowment for the National Park Service shall not be treated as non-Federal donations for purposes of subsection (c)(3).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–289, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/114/289/tI/s101/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1483](/us/stat/130/1483).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 805(b)(1) of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is classified to [section 6804(b)(1) of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s6804/b/1), Conservation.
