---
title: "§ 21133. Transfer of property, records, and personnel"
identifier: "USC-T52-S21133"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section21133"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–252, title VIII, § 803](/us/pl/107/252/tVIII/s803), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/116/1726).)"
---
# § 21133. Transfer of property, records, and personnel

##### § 21133. Transfer of property, records, and personnel

(a) Property and records The contracts, liabilities, records, property, and other assets and interests of, or made available in connection with, the offices and functions of the Federal Election Commission which are transferred by this subchapter are transferred to the Election Assistance Commission for appropriate allocation.

(b) Personnel

(1) In general The personnel employed in connection with the offices and functions of the Federal Election Commission which are transferred by this subchapter are transferred to the Election Assistance Commission.

(2) Effect Any full-time or part-time personnel employed in permanent positions shall not be separated or reduced in grade or compensation because of the transfer under this subsection during the 1-year period beginning on October 29, 2002.

*([Pub. L. 107–252, title VIII, § 803](/us/pl/107/252/tVIII/s803), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/116/1726).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 801–804) of title VIII of [Pub. L. 107–252](/us/pl/107/252), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/116/1725). For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15533 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15533), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
