---
title: "§ 60111. Financial responsibility for liquefied natural gas facilities"
identifier: "USC-T49-S60111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section60111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/108/1317).)"
---
# § 60111. Financial responsibility for liquefied natural gas facilities

##### § 60111. Financial responsibility for liquefied natural gas facilities

(a) Notice.— When the Secretary of Transportation believes that an operator of a liquefied natural gas facility does not have adequate financial responsibility for the facility, the Secretary may issue a notice to the operator about the inadequacy and the amount of financial responsibility the Secretary considers adequate.

(b) Hearings.— An operator receiving a notice under subsection (a) of this section may have a hearing on the record not later than 30 days after receiving the notice. The operator may show why the Secretary should not issue an order requiring the operator to demonstrate and maintain financial responsibility in at least the amount the Secretary considers adequate.

(c) Orders.— After an opportunity for a hearing on the record, the Secretary may issue the order if the Secretary decides it is justified in the public interest.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/108/1317).)*

In subsection (a), the words “is not maintaining adequate insurance or otherwise”, the text of 49 App.:1674b(c), and the words “and serve upon” and “a statement of” are omitted as surplus.

In subsection (b), the words “in accordance with [section 554 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s554)” are omitted for consistency in the revised title and because 5:554 applies to a hearing on the record unless otherwise stated. The words “to be held” and “cause as to” are omitted as surplus. The words “the Secretary considers adequate” are substituted for “indicated in the notice under paragraph (1)” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words.

Subsection (c) is substituted for 49 App.:1674b(b)(3) to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 60111(a) | 49 App.:1674b(b)(1), (c). | Aug. 12, 1968, Pub. L. 90–481, 82 Stat. 720, § 7(b)(1)–(3), (c); added Nov. 30, 1979, Pub. L. 96–129, § 153, 93 Stat. 1002. |
| 60111(b) | 49 App.:1674b(b)(2). |  |
| 60111(c) | 49 App.:1674b(b)(3). |  |
