---
title: "§ 1627a. Unlawful importation or exportation of certain vehicles; inspections"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1627a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1627a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 627, as added [Pub. L. 98–573, title II, § 205](/us/pl/98/573/tII/s205), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2974](/us/stat/98/2974).)"
---
# § 1627a. Unlawful importation or exportation of certain vehicles; inspections

##### § 1627a. Unlawful importation or exportation of certain vehicles; inspections

(a) Violations; penalties; seizures and forfeitures

(1) Whoever knowingly imports, exports, or attempts to import or export—

shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount determined by the Secretary, not to exceed $10,000 for each violation.

(A) Any 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. stolen self-propelled vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or part of a self-propelled vehicle, vessel, or aircraft; or

(B) any self-propelled vehicle or part of a self-propelled vehicle from which the identification number has been removed, obliterated, tampered with, or altered;

(2) Any violation of this subsection shall make such self-propelled vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or part thereof subject to seizure and forfeiture under this chapter.

(b) Regulations; violations; penalties A person attempting to export a used self-propelled vehicle shall present, pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary, to the appropriate customs officer both the vehicle and a document describing such vehicle which includes the vehicle identification number, before lading if the vehicle is to be transported by vessel or aircraft, or before export if the vehicle is to be transported by rail, highway, or under its own power. Failure to comply with the regulations of the Secretary shall subject such person to a civil penalty of not more than $500 for each violation.

(c) Definitions For purposes of this section—

(1) the term “self-propelled vehicle” includes any automobile, truck, tractor, bus, motorcycle, motor home, self-propelled agricultural machinery, self-propelled construction equipment, self-propelled special use equipment, and any other self-propelled vehicle used or designed for running on land but not on rail;

(2) the term “aircraft” has the meaning given it in [section 40102(a)(6) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s40102/a/6);

(3) the term “used” refers to any self-propelled vehicle the equitable or legal title to which has been transferred by a manufacturer, distributor, or dealer to an ultimate purchaser; and

(4) the term “ultimate purchaser” means the first person, other than a dealer purchasing in his capacity as a dealer, who in good faith purchases a self-propelled vehicle for purposes other than resale.

(d) Cooperation of law enforcement and governmental authorities Customs officers may cooperate and exchange information concerning motor vehicles, off-highway mobile equipment, vessels, or aircraft, either before exportation or after exportation or importation, with such Federal, State, local, and foreign law enforcement or governmental authorities, and with such organizations engaged in theft prevention activities, as may be designated by the Secretary.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 627, as added [Pub. L. 98–573, title II, § 205](/us/pl/98/573/tII/s205), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2974](/us/stat/98/2974).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In subsec. (c)(2), “[section 40102(a)(6) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s40102/a/6)” substituted for “section 101(5) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 ([49 U.S.C. 1301(5)](/us/usc/t49/s1301/5))” on authority of [Pub. L. 103–272, § 6(b)](/us/pl/103/272/s6/b), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1378](/us/stat/108/1378), the first section of which enacted subtitles II, III, and V to X of Title 49, Transportation.

Another section 627 of act June 17, 1930, as added by [Pub. L. 98–547, title III, § 302](/us/pl/98/547/tIII/s302), Oct. 25, 1984, [98 Stat. 2771](/us/stat/98/2771), was classified to [section 1627 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1627) and subsequently repealed.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on 15th day after Oct. 30, 1984, see section 214(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573), set out as an Effective Date of 1984 Amendment note under [section 1304 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1304).
