---
title: "§ 7812. Streamlined critical pay authority for information technology positions"
identifier: "USC-T26-S7812"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section7812"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–25, title II, § 2103(a)](/us/pl/116/25/tII/s2103/a), July 1, 2019, [133 Stat. 1011](/us/stat/133/1011).)"
---
# § 7812. Streamlined critical pay authority for information technology positions

##### § 7812. Streamlined critical pay authority for information technology positions

(1) [section 9503 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s9503), United States Code, shall be applied—

(A) by substituting “during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of section 7812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and ending on September 30, 2025” for “Before September 30, 2013 in subsection (a)” 11 So in original. The closing quotation marks probably should follow “Before September 30, 2013” instead of “(a)”.,

(B) without regard to subparagraph (B) of subsection (a)(1), and

(C) by substituting “the date of the enactment of the Taxpayer First Act” for “June 1, 1998” in subsection (a)(6),

(2) section 9504 of such title 5 shall be applied by substituting “During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of section 7812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and ending on September 30, 2025” for “Before September 30, 2013” each place it appears in subsections (a) and (b), and

(3) section 9505 of such title shall be applied—

(A) by substituting “During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of section 7812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and ending on September 30, 2025” for “Before September 30, 2013” in subsection (a), and

(B) by substituting “the information technology operations” for “significant functions” in subsection (a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–25, title II, § 2103(a)](/us/pl/116/25/tII/s2103/a), July 1, 2019, [133 Stat. 1011](/us/stat/133/1011).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of section 7812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in text, is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 116–25](/us/pl/116/25), which was approved July 1, 2019.

The date of the enactment of the Taxpayer First Act, referred to in par. (1)(C), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 116–25](/us/pl/116/25), which was approved July 1, 2019.
