---
title: "§ 2325a. Authority to accept and use materials and services"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2325a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2325a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1024](/us/pl/113/121/tI/s1024), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/128/1229); [Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1153](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1153), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1663](/us/stat/130/1663).)"
---
# § 2325a. Authority to accept and use materials and services

##### § 2325a. Authority to accept and use materials and services

(a) In general Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary is authorized to accept and use materials, services, or funds contributed by a non-Federal public entity, a nonprofit entity, or a private entity to repair, restore, replace, or maintain a water resources project in any case in which the District Commander determines that—

(1) there is a risk of adverse impacts to the functioning of the project for the authorized purposes of the project; and

(2) acceptance of the materials and services or funds is in the public interest.

(b) Limitation Any entity that contributes materials or services under subsection (a) shall not be eligible for credit or reimbursement for the value of such materials or services.

(c) Additional requirements

(1) Applicable laws and regulations The Secretary may only use materials or services accepted under this section if such materials and services comply with all applicable laws and regulations that would apply if such materials and services were acquired by the Secretary.

(2) Supplementary services The Secretary may only accept and use services under this section that provide supplementary services to existing Federal employees, and may only use such services to perform work that would not otherwise be accomplished as a result of funding or personnel limitations.

(d) Report Not later than February 1 of each year after the first fiscal year in which materials, services, or funds are accepted under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives an annual report that includes—

(1) a description of the activities undertaken, including the costs associated with the activities; and

(2) a comprehensive description of how the activities are necessary for maintaining a safe and reliable water resources project.

*([Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1024](/us/pl/113/121/tI/s1024), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/128/1229); [Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1153](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1153), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1663](/us/stat/130/1663).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–322, § 1153(1)](/us/pl/114/322/s1153/1), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary is authorized to accept and use materials and services contributed by a non-Federal public entity, a nonprofit entity, or a private entity for the purpose of repairing, restoring, or replacing a water resources development project that has been damaged or destroyed as a result of an emergency if the Secretary determines that the acceptance and use of such materials and services is in the public interest.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–322, § 1153(3)](/us/pl/114/322/s1153/3), added subsec. (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (d).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 114–322, § 1153(2)](/us/pl/114/322/s1153/2), (4), redesignated subsec. (c) as (d) and, in introductory provisions, substituted “Not later than February 1 of each year after the first fiscal year in which materials, services, or funds are accepted under this section,” for “Not later than 60 days after initiating an activity under this section,” and “an annual report” for “a report”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
