---
title: "§ 1371. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1371"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1371"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title V, § 565](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tV/s565), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–684](/us/stat/110/3009-684).)"
---
# § 1371. Reports

##### § 1371. Reports

(1) Public charge deportations The number of aliens deported on public charge grounds under section 1227(a)(5) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title during the previous fiscal year.

(2) Indigent sponsors The number of determinations made under [section 1631(e) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1631/e) during the previous fiscal year.

(3) Reimbursement actions The number of actions brought, and the amount of each action, for reimbursement under [section 1183a of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1183a) (including private collections) for the costs of providing public benefits.

*([Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title V, § 565](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tV/s565), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–684](/us/stat/110/3009-684).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1227(a)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1227/a/5), referred to in par. (1), was in the original a reference to “section 241(a)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act”, which has been translated as referring to section 237(a)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to reflect the probable intent of Congress and the renumbering of section 241 as 237 by [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 305(a)(2)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s305/a/2), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–598](/us/stat/110/3009-598). [Pub. L. 104–208, § 305(a)(3)](/us/pl/104/208/s305/a/3), enacted a new section 241 of the Immigration and Nationality Act which is classified to [section 1231 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1231), but subsec. (a)(5) of that section does not relate to deportation on public charge grounds.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997, and not as part of the Immigration and Nationality Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1551).
