---
title: "§ 44804. Unmanned aircraft in the Arctic"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44804"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44804"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 344(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s344/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3290](/us/stat/132/3290); amended [Pub. L. 118–63, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tIX/s902/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1341](/us/stat/138/1341).)"
---
# § 44804. Unmanned aircraft in the Arctic

##### § 44804. Unmanned aircraft in the Arctic

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation shall develop a plan and initiate a process to work with relevant Federal agencies and national and international communities to designate permanent areas in the Arctic where unmanned aircraft may operate 24 hours per day for research and commercial purposes.

(b) Plan Contents.— The plan under subsection (a) shall include the development of processes to facilitate the safe operation of unmanned aircraft beyond the visual line of sight.

(c) Requirements.— Each permanent area designated under subsection (a) shall enable over-water flights from the surface to at least 2,000 feet in altitude, with ingress and egress routes from selected coastal launch sites.

(d) Agreements.— To implement the plan under subsection (a), the Secretary may enter into an agreement with relevant national and international communities.

(e) Aircraft Approval.—

(1) In general.— Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 1 year after the entry into force of an agreement necessary to effectuate the purposes of this section, the Secretary shall work with relevant national and international communities to establish and implement a process for approving the use of a unmanned aircraft in the designated permanent areas in the Arctic without regard to whether the unmanned aircraft is used as a public aircraft, a civil aircraft, or a model aircraft.

(2) Existing process.— The Secretary may implement an existing process to meet the requirements under paragraph (1).

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 344(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s344/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3290](/us/stat/132/3290); amended [Pub. L. 118–63, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tIX/s902/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1341](/us/stat/138/1341).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 332(d) of Pub. L. 112–95](/us/pl/112/95/s332/d), which was set out in a note under [section 40101 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s40101), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 341(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s341/b/2), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3287](/us/stat/132/3287). The remainder of the note comprised of subtitle B of title III of [Pub. L. 112–95](/us/pl/112/95) was transferred and is set out under [section 44802 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s44802).

#### Amendments

2024—[Pub. L. 118–63, § 902(a)(1)](/us/pl/118/63/s902/a/1), substituted “Unmanned” for “Small unmanned” in section catchline.

Subsecs. (a), (b), (e)(1). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 902(a)(2)](/us/pl/118/63/s902/a/2), struck out “small” before “unmanned aircraft” wherever appearing.
