---
title: "§ 9208. Administrative provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9208"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9208"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–345, § 9](/us/pl/96/345/s9), Sept. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/94/1144); [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1051(b)](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1051/b), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 716](/us/stat/109/716).)"
---
# § 9208. Administrative provisions

##### § 9208. Administrative provisions

(a) Monitoring of performance; collection and evaluation of data The Secretary, in coordination with such Government agencies as may be appropriate, shall—

(1) monitor the performance and operation of wind energy systems installed under this chapter; and

(2) collect and evaluate data and information on the performance and operation of wind energy systems installed under this chapter.

(b) Liaison The Secretary shall also maintain continuing liaison with related industries and interests and with the scientific and technical community in order to assure that the benefits of programs under this chapter are and will continue to be realized to the maximum extent feasible.

(c) Availability of information The Secretary shall assure, subject to [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552) and [section 1905 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1905), that full and complete information with respect to any program, project, or other activity conducted under this chapter is made available to Federal, State, and local authorities, relevant segments of the economy, the scientific community, and the public so that the early, widespread, and practical use of wind energy throughout the United States is promoted to the maximum extent feasible.

*([Pub. L. 96–345, § 9](/us/pl/96/345/s9), Sept. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/94/1144); [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1051(b)](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1051/b), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 716](/us/stat/109/716).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1995—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66) struck out par. (3) which read as follows: “from time to time carry out such studies and investigations and take such other actions, including the submission of special reports to the Congress when appropriate, as may be necessary to assure that the programs for which the Secretary is responsible under this chapter effectively carry out the purposes of this chapter.”
