---
title: "§ 575. Availability of appropriations for expenses incident to operation of power boats or vessels; expenses defined; certification of expenditures"
identifier: "USC-T33-S575"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section575"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([July 31, 1947, ch. 411, § 1](/us/act/1947-07-31/ch411/s1), [61 Stat. 688](/us/stat/61/688).)"
---
# § 575. Availability of appropriations for expenses incident to operation of power boats or vessels; expenses defined; certification of expenditures

##### § 575. Availability of appropriations for expenses incident to operation of power boats or vessels; expenses defined; certification of expenditures

On and after July 31, 1947, no appropriation under the Corps of Engineers shall be available for any expenses incident to operating any power-driven boat or vessel on other than Government business, and that Government business shall be construed to include transportation, lodging, and subsistence on inspection trips of Federal and State officials, having a public interest in authorized or proposed improvements for river and harbor and flood control, and any expenses incurred therefor shall be chargeable to river and harbor and flood control appropriations heretofore or hereafter made under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Chief of Engineers: *Provided*, That such expenditures shall be certified by the Division Engineer as necessary and proper expenditures.

*([July 31, 1947, ch. 411, § 1](/us/act/1947-07-31/ch411/s1), [61 Stat. 688](/us/stat/61/688).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is also set out as [section 701b–9 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701b–9).

Section was formerly classified to sections 190a and 199 of Title 10 prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 10, Armed Forces, by [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, § 1](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041/s1), [70A Stat. 1](/us/stat/70A/1).
