---
title: "§ 9213. Reporting requirements"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9213"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9213"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–122, title I, § 103](/us/pl/114/122/tI/s103), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 98](/us/stat/130/98).)"
---
# § 9213. Reporting requirements

##### § 9213. Reporting requirements

(a) Presidential briefings to Congress Not later than 180 days after February 18, 2016, and periodically thereafter, the President shall provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on efforts to implement this chapter.

(b) Report from Secretary of State Not later than 180 days after February 18, 2016, the Secretary of State shall conduct, coordinate, and submit to Congress a comprehensive report on United States policy towards North Korea that—

(1) is based on a full and complete interagency review of current policies and possible alternatives, including with respect to North Korea’s weapons of mass destruction and missile programs, human rights atrocities, and significant activities undermining cybersecurity; and

(2) includes recommendations for such legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate based on the results of the review.

*([Pub. L. 114–122, title I, § 103](/us/pl/114/122/tI/s103), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 98](/us/stat/130/98).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–122](/us/pl/114/122), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 93](/us/stat/130/93), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9201 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9201) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions and authorities of President under subsec. (a) of this section delegated to Secretary of State, in consultation with Secretary of the Treasury, by Memorandum of President of the United States, May 18, 2016, 81 F.R. 37479, set out as a note under [section 9212 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9212).
