---
title: "§ 5134. Interagency task force"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5134"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5134"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–288, title II, § 204](/us/pl/93/288/tII/s204), as added [Pub. L. 106–390, title I, § 103](/us/pl/106/390/tI/s103), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1557](/us/stat/114/1557); amended [Pub. L. 111–351, § 3(c)(2)](/us/pl/111/351/s3/c/2), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3864](/us/stat/124/3864).)"
---
# § 5134. Interagency task force

##### § 5134. Interagency task force

(a) In general The President shall establish a Federal interagency task force for the purpose of coordinating the implementation of predisaster hazard mitigation programs administered by the Federal Government.

(b) Chairperson The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall serve as the chairperson of the task force.

(c) Membership The membership of the task force shall include representatives of—

(1) relevant Federal agencies;

(2) State and local government organizations (including Indian tribes); and

(3) the American Red Cross.

*([Pub. L. 93–288, title II, § 204](/us/pl/93/288/tII/s204), as added [Pub. L. 106–390, title I, § 103](/us/pl/106/390/tI/s103), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1557](/us/stat/114/1557); amended [Pub. L. 111–351, § 3(c)(2)](/us/pl/111/351/s3/c/2), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3864](/us/stat/124/3864).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2011—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–351](/us/pl/111/351) substituted “Administrator” for “Director”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see [section 315(a)(1) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s315/a/1), Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
