---
title: "§ 5384. Compacts"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5384"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5384"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–638, title V, § 504](/us/pl/93/638/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 106–260, § 4](/us/pl/106/260/s4), Aug. 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 715](/us/stat/114/715).)"
---
# § 5384. Compacts

##### § 5384. Compacts

(a) Compact required The Secretary shall negotiate and enter into a written compact with each Indian tribe participating in self-governance in a manner consistent with the Federal Government’s trust responsibility, treaty obligations, and the government-to-government relationship between Indian tribes and the United States.

(b) Contents Each compact required under subsection (a) of this section shall set forth the general terms of the government-to-government relationship between the Indian tribe and the Secretary, including such terms as the parties intend shall control year after year. Such compacts may only be amended by mutual agreement of the parties.

(c) Existing compacts An Indian tribe participating in the Tribal Self-Governance Demonstration Project under title III 11 See References in Text note below. on August 18, 2000, shall have the option at any time after August 18, 2000, to—

(1) retain the Tribal Self-Governance Demonstration Project compact of that Indian tribe (in whole or in part) to the extent that the provisions of that funding agreement are not directly contrary to any express provision of this subchapter; or

(2) instead of retaining a compact or portion thereof under paragraph (1), negotiate a new compact in a manner consistent with the requirements of this subchapter.

(d) Term and effective date The effective date of a compact shall be the date of the approval and execution by the Indian tribe or another date agreed upon by the parties, and shall remain in effect for so long as permitted by Federal law or until terminated by mutual written agreement, retrocession, or reassumption.

*([Pub. L. 93–638, title V, § 504](/us/pl/93/638/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 106–260, § 4](/us/pl/106/260/s4), Aug. 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 715](/us/stat/114/715).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Title III, referred to in subsec. (c), means title III of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), as added by [Pub. L. 100–472, title II, § 209](/us/pl/100/472/tII/s209), Oct. 5, 1988, [102 Stat. 2296](/us/stat/102/2296), and amended, which was set out as a note under former [section 450f of this title](/us/usc/t25/s450f) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 106–260, § 10](/us/pl/106/260/s10), Aug. 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 734](/us/stat/114/734).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 458aaa–3 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s458aaa–3) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
