---
title: "§ 3334f. Congressional notification of designation of covered intelligence officer as persona non grata"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3334f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3334f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6719](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6719), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2229](/us/stat/133/2229).)"
---
# § 3334f. Congressional notification of designation of covered intelligence officer as persona non grata

##### § 3334f. Congressional notification of designation of covered intelligence officer as persona non grata

(a) Covered intelligence officer defined In this section, the term “covered intelligence officer” means—

(1) a United States intelligence officer serving in a post in a foreign country; or

(2) a known or suspected foreign intelligence officer serving in a United States post.

(b) Requirement for reports Not later than 72 hours after a covered intelligence officer is designated as a persona non grata, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a notification of that designation. Each such notification shall include—

(1) the date of the designation;

(2) the basis for the designation; and

(3) a justification for the expulsion.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6719](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6719), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2229](/us/stat/133/2229).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in subsec. (b), see [section 5003 of div. E of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/dE/s5003), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
