---
title: "§ 42303. Information requests"
identifier: "USC-T46-S42303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section42303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 7](/us/pl/109/304/s7), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/120/1552).)"
---
# § 42303. Information requests

##### § 42303. Information requests

(a) In General.— To further the purposes of [section 42302(a) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s42302/a), the Federal Maritime Commission may order any person (including a common carrier, shipper, shippers’ association, ocean transportation intermediary, or marine terminal operator, or an officer, receiver, trustee, lessee, agent or employee thereof) to file with the Commission any periodic or special report, answers to questions, documentary material, or other information the Commission considers necessary or appropriate. The Commission may require the response to any such order to be made under oath. The response shall be provided in the form and within the time specified by the Commission.

(b) Subpoenas.— In an investigation under [section 42302 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s42302), the Commission may subpoena witnesses and evidence.

(c) Nondisclosure.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission may determine that any information submitted to it in response to a request under this section, or otherwise, shall not be disclosed to the public.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 7](/us/pl/109/304/s7), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/120/1552).)*

In subsection (b), the words “subpoena witnesses and evidence” are substituted for “issue subpoenas to compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of records or other evidence” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (c), the words “in its discretion” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 42303 | 46 App.:1710a(d) | Pub. L. 100–418, title X, § 10002(d), Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1571; Pub. L. 105–258, title I, § 111(4), Oct. 14, 1998, 112 Stat. 1911. |
