---
title: "§ 2306. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 951](/us/pl/99/662/tIX/s951), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4201](/us/stat/100/4201).)"
---
# § 2306. Reports

##### § 2306. Reports

If any report required to be transmitted under this Act to the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate pertains in whole or in part to fish and wildlife mitigation, benthic environmental repercussions, or ecosystem mitigation, the Federal officer required to prepare or transmit that report also shall transmit a copy of the report to the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 951](/us/pl/99/662/tIX/s951), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4201](/us/stat/100/4201).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 99–662](/us/pl/99/662), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4082](/us/stat/100/4082), known as the Water Resources Development Act of 1986. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Public Works and Transportation of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress.

#### Abolition of House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries

Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives abolished and its jurisdiction transferred by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995. Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Resources of House of Representatives in case of provisions relating to fisheries, wildlife, international fishing agreements, marine affairs (including coastal zone management) except for measures relating to oil and other pollution of navigable waters, or oceanography by [section 1(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/b/3), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.
