---
title: "§ 7102. Congressional notification of significant Army force structure changes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title X, § 1044(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tX/s1044/a/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/135/1904).)"
---
# § 7102. Congressional notification of significant Army force structure changes

##### § 7102. Congressional notification of significant Army force structure changes

(a) Notification Required.— Except as provided in subsection (c), the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees written notification of any decision to make a significant change to Army force structure prior to implementing or announcing such change.

(b) Contents.— A notification required under subsection (a) shall include each of the following:

(1) The justification for the planned change.

(2) A description of the details of the planned change and timing for implementation.

(3) A description of the operational implications of the planned change.

(4) The estimated costs of such change.

(c) Exception.— The notification requirement under subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense committees in advance that the planned Army force structure change must be implemented immediately for reasons of military urgency.

(d) Definition of Significant Change to Army Force Structure.— In this section, the term “significant change to Army force structure” means—

(1) a change in the number, type, or component of brigade-level organizations or higher-echelon headquarters;

(2) a change in the number or component of theater-level capabilities, such as a multi-domain task force, Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, long range fires unit, or headquarters; or

(3) a permanent or temporary activation or inactivation of an experimental unit or brigade-size or higher task force.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title X, § 1044(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tX/s1044/a/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/135/1904).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 7102 to 7104 were renumbered sections 8592 to 8594 of this title, respectively.
