---
title: "§ 1701k. Right to redeem property on which United States has lien"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701k"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701k"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Apr. 20, 1950, ch. 94](/us/act/1950-04-20/ch94), title V, § 505, [64 Stat. 81](/us/stat/64/81); [Pub. L. 85–857, § 13(q)](/us/pl/85/857/s13/q), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/72/1266).)"
---
# § 1701k. Right to redeem property on which United States has lien

##### § 1701k. Right to redeem property on which United States has lien

The right to redeem provided for by [section 2410(c) of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2410/c), shall not arise in any case in which the subordinate lien or interest of the United States derives from the issuance of insurance under the National Housing Act, as amended [[12 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t12/s1701) et seq.].

*([Apr. 20, 1950, ch. 94](/us/act/1950-04-20/ch94), title V, § 505, [64 Stat. 81](/us/stat/64/81); [Pub. L. 85–857, § 13(q)](/us/pl/85/857/s13/q), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/72/1266).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Housing Act, as amended, referred to in text, is [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), [48 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/48/1246), which is classified principally to this chapter (§ 1701 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing Act of 1950, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1958—[Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857) struck out provisions which related to the right to redeem in cases in which the subordinate lien or interest derives from the issuance of guaranties of insurance under the Serviceman’s Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857) effective Jan. 1, 1959, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857/s2), set out as an Effective Date note preceding part 1 of Title 38, Veterans’ Benefits.

#### Act April 20, 1950, as Controlling Law; Housing and Home Finance Administrator Unaffected

[Act Apr. 20, 1950, ch. 94, title V, § 509](/us/act/1950-04-20/ch94/tV/s509), [64 Stat. 81](/us/stat/64/81), provided that: “Insofar as the provisions of any other law are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act [see Tables for classification] the provisions of this Act shall be controlling: *Provided*, That nothing contained in this Act shall affect the authority of the Housing and Home Finance Administrator under title II of Public Law 266, Eighty-first Congress [[Act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 506, title II](/us/act/1949-08-24/ch506/tII), [63 Stat. 657](/us/stat/63/657)].”

#### Powers and Authorities of Act April 20, 1950, as Cumulative; Separability

[Act Apr. 20, 1950, ch. 94, title V, § 510](/us/act/1950-04-20/ch94/tV/s510), [64 Stat. 81](/us/stat/64/81), provided that: “Except as may be otherwise expressly provided in this Act [see Tables for classification] all powers and authorities conferred by this Act shall be cumulative and additional to and not in derogation of any powers and authorities otherwise existing. Notwithstanding any other evidences of the intention of Congress, it is hereby declared to be the controlling intent of Congress that if any provisions of this Act, or the application thereof to any persons or circumstances, shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder of this Act or its applications to other persons and circumstances, but shall be confined in its operation to the provisions of this Act, or the application thereof to the persons and circumstances, directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered.”
