---
title: "§ 263a–5. Publication"
identifier: "USC-T42-S263a–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section263a–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–493, § 6](/us/pl/102/493/s6), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3151](/us/stat/106/3151).)"
---
# § 263a–5. Publication

##### § 263a–5. Publication

(1)

(A) 11 So in original. No par. (2) has been enacted. pregnancy success rates reported to the Secretary under [section 263a–1(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s263a–1/a/1) and, in the case of an assisted reproductive technology program which failed to report one or more success rates as required under such section, the name of each such program and each pregnancy success rate which the program failed to report, and

(B) from information reported under [section 263a–1(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s263a–1/a/2)—

(i) the identity of each embryo laboratory in a State which has adopted the certification program under such program and whether such laboratory is certified under [section 263a–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s263a–2),

(ii) the identity of each embryo laboratory in a State which has not adopted such certification program and which has been certified by an accreditation organization approved by the Secretary under [section 263a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s263a–3), and

(iii) in the case of an embryo laboratory which is not certified under [section 263a–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s263a–2) or certified by an accreditation organization approved by the Secretary under [section 263a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s263a–3), whether the laboratory applied for certification.

*([Pub. L. 102–493, § 6](/us/pl/102/493/s6), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3151](/us/stat/106/3151).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Fertility Clinic Success Rate and Certification Act of 1992, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Centers for Disease Control changed to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention by [Pub. L. 102–531, title III, § 312](/us/pl/102/531/tIII/s312), Oct. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 3504](/us/stat/106/3504).

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon expiration of 2 years after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 9 of Pub. L. 102–493](/us/pl/102/493/s9), set out as a note under [section 263a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s263a–1).
