---
title: "§ 7300. Report to Congress; effect on personnel"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7300"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7300"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–91, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/95/91/tVII/s712), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 609](/us/stat/91/609).)"
---
# § 7300. Report to Congress; effect on personnel

##### § 7300. Report to Congress; effect on personnel

(1) an identification of any position within the Department or elsewhere in the executive branch, which it considers unnecessary due to consolidation of functions under this chapter;

(2) a statement of the number of employees entitled to pay savings by reason of the reorganization under this chapter;

(3) a statement of the number of employees who are voluntarily or involuntarily separated by reason of such reorganization;

(4) an estimate of the personnel costs associated with such reorganization;

(5) the effects of such reorganization on labor management relations; and

(6) such legislative and administrative recommendations for improvements in personnel management within the Department as the Commission considers necessary.

*([Pub. L. 95–91, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/95/91/tVII/s712), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 609](/us/stat/91/609).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in introductory provisions and pars. (1) and (2), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 565](/us/stat/91/565), known as the Department of Energy Organization Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7101) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions vested by statute in United States Civil Service Commission transferred to Director of Office of Personnel Management (except as otherwise specified) by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1978, § 102, 43 F.R. 36037, [92 Stat. 3783](/us/stat/92/3783), set out under [section 1101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1101), Government Organization and Employees, effective Jan. 1, 1979, as provided by section 1–102 of Ex. Ord. No. 12107, Dec. 28, 1978, 44 F.R. 1055, set out under [section 1101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
