---
title: "§ 300x–4. Additional provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300x–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300x–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1915, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 201(2)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s201/2), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 383](/us/stat/106/383); amended [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3204(b)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXII/s3204/b), (c), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1193](/us/stat/114/1193); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, § 8001(d)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVIII/s8001/d), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1228](/us/stat/130/1228).)"
---
# § 300x–4. Additional provisions

##### § 300x–4. Additional provisions

(a) Review of State plan by mental health planning council The Secretary may make a grant under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x) to a State only if—

(1) the plan submitted under [section 300x–1(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–1/a) with respect to the grant and the report of the State under [section 300x–52(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–52/a) concerning the preceding fiscal year has been reviewed by the State mental health planning council under [section 300x–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–3); and

(2) the State submits to the Secretary any recommendations received by the State from such council for modifications to the plan (without regard to whether the State has made the recommended modifications) and any comments concerning the annual report.

(b) Maintenance of effort regarding State expenditures for mental health

(1) In general A funding agreement for a grant under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x) is that the State involved will maintain State expenditures for community mental health services at a level that is not less than the average level of such expenditures maintained by the State for the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the State is applying for the grant.

(2) Exclusion of certain funds The Secretary may exclude from the aggregate State expenditures under subsection (a), funds appropriated to the principle agency for authorized activities which are of a non-recurring nature and for a specific purpose.

(3) Waiver

(A) In general The Secretary may, upon the request of a State, waive the requirement established in paragraph (1) in whole or in part if the Secretary determines that extraordinary economic conditions in the State in the fiscal year involved or in the previous fiscal year justify the waiver 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.

(B) Date certain for action upon request The Secretary shall approve or deny a request for a waiver under this paragraph not later than 120 days after the date on which the request is made.

(C) Applicability of waiver A waiver provided by the Secretary under this paragraph shall be applicable only to the fiscal year involved.

(4) Noncompliance by State

(A) In general

(i) Determination In making a grant under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x) to a State for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall make a determination of whether, for the previous fiscal year, the State maintained material compliance with the agreement made under paragraph (1). If the Secretary determines that a State has failed to maintain such compliance, the Secretary shall reduce the amount of the allotment under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x) for the State for the fiscal year for which the grant is being made by an amount equal to the amount constituting such failure for the previous fiscal year.

(ii) Alternative A State that has failed to comply with paragraph (1) and would otherwise be subject to a reduction in the State’s allotment under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x) may, upon request by the State, in lieu of having the amount of the allotment under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x) for the State reduced for the fiscal year of the grant, agree to comply with a negotiated agreement that is approved by the Secretary and carried out in accordance with guidelines issued by the Secretary. If a State fails to enter into or comply with a negotiated agreement, the Secretary may take action under this paragraph or the terms of the negotiated agreement.

(B) Submission of information to the secretary The Secretary may make a grant under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x) for a fiscal year only if the State involved submits to the Secretary information sufficient for the Secretary to make the determination required in subparagraph (A)(i).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1915, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 201(2)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s201/2), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 383](/us/stat/106/383); amended [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3204(b)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXII/s3204/b), (c), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1193](/us/stat/114/1193); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, § 8001(d)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVIII/s8001/d), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1228](/us/stat/130/1228).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 300x–4 and 300x–4a were repealed by [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 201(2)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s201/2), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 378](/us/stat/106/378).

Section 300x–4, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XIX, § 1916](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tXIX/s1916), formerly § 1915, as added Aug. 13, 1981, [Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/97/35/tIX/s901), [95 Stat. 546](/us/stat/95/546); amended Jan. 4, 1983, [Pub. L. 97–414, § 8(u)](/us/pl/97/414/s8/u), [96 Stat. 2063](/us/stat/96/2063); renumbered § 1916 and amended Oct. 19, 1984, [Pub. L. 98–509, title I](/us/pl/98/509/tI), §§ 103, 106(a)–(c), (f), (g), [98 Stat. 2355](/us/stat/98/2355), 2358, 2359; Oct. 7, 1985, [Pub. L. 99–117, § 7(a)](/us/pl/99/117/s7/a), [99 Stat. 492](/us/stat/99/492); Nov. 14, 1986, [Pub. L. 99–660, title V, § 503](/us/pl/99/660/tV/s503), [100 Stat. 3797](/us/stat/100/3797); Nov. 18, 1988, [Pub. L. 100–690, title II](/us/pl/100/690/tII), §§ 2027–2035, 2037(a)(2), [102 Stat. 4199–4201](/us/stat/102/4199-4201), 4203; Aug. 16, 1989, [Pub. L. 101–93, § 2(e)](/us/pl/101/93/s2/e)–(*l*), (p)(1), (q)(1), [103 Stat. 606–609](/us/stat/103/606-609); Aug. 15, 1990, [Pub. L. 101–374, § 4(b)](/us/pl/101/374/s4/b), [104 Stat. 459](/us/stat/104/459), required States to make application and describe their activities in relation to allotments for grants for alcohol, drug abuse, and mental health services.

A prior section 1915 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 300x–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–3) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321).

Section 300x–4a, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XIX, § 1916A](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tXIX/s1916A), as added Nov. 18, 1988, [Pub. L. 100–690, title II, § 2036](/us/pl/100/690/tII/s2036), [102 Stat. 4202](/us/stat/102/4202); amended Aug. 16, 1989, [Pub. L. 101–93, § 2(m)](/us/pl/101/93/s2/m), [103 Stat. 608](/us/stat/103/608), related to group homes for recovering substance abusers.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 8001(d)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/s8001/d/1), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A) and inserted heading, substituted “paragraph (1) in whole or in part if” for “paragraph (1) if” and “State in the fiscal year involved or in the previous fiscal year justify the waiver” for “State justify the waiver.”, and added subpars. (B) and (C).

Subsec. (b)(4)(A). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 8001(d)(2)(A)](/us/pl/114/255/s8001/d/2/A), designated existing provisions as cl. (i), inserted subpar. (A) and cl. (i) headings, and added cl. (ii).

Subsec. (b)(4)(B). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 8001(d)(2)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s8001/d/2/B), inserted heading and substituted “subparagraph (A)(i)” for “subparagraph (A)” in text.

2000—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 106–310, § 3204(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/310/s3204/b/1), inserted “and the report of the State under [section 300x–52(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–52/a) concerning the preceding fiscal year” after “to the grant”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 106–310, § 3204(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/310/s3204/b/2), inserted “and any comments concerning the annual report” before period at end.

Subsec. (b)(2) to (4). [Pub. L. 106–310, § 3204(c)](/us/pl/106/310/s3204/c), added par. (2) and redesignated former pars. (2) and (3) as (3) and (4), respectively.
