---
title: "§ 5842. Identification of firearms"
identifier: "USC-T26-S5842"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section5842"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–618, title II, § 201](/us/pl/90/618/tII/s201), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/82/1230); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)"
---
# § 5842. Identification of firearms

##### § 5842. Identification of firearms

(a) Identification of firearms other than destructive devices Each manufacturer and importer and anyone making a firearm shall identify each firearm, other than a destructive device, manufactured, imported, or made by a serial number which may not be readily removed, obliterated, or altered, the name of the manufacturer, importer, or maker, and such other identification as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe.

(b) Firearms without serial number Any person who possesses a firearm, other than a destructive device, which does not bear the serial number and other information required by subsection (a) of this section shall identify the firearm with a serial number assigned by the Secretary and any other information the Secretary may by regulations prescribe.

(c) Identification of destructive device Any firearm classified as a destructive device shall be identified in such manner as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–618, title II, § 201](/us/pl/90/618/tII/s201), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/82/1230); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5842, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 725](/us/stat/68A/725), related to books, records, and returns, prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618).

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in prior section 5843, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 725](/us/stat/68A/725), as amended by act Sept. 2, 1958, [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 203(e)](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s203/e), [72 Stat. 1427](/us/stat/72/1427), prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618).

#### Amendments

1976—[Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary” wherever appearing.
