---
title: "§ 10206. Technician positions"
identifier: "USC-T5-S10206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section10206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–282, § 2(a)](/us/pl/111/282/s2/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3037](/us/stat/124/3037).)"
---
# § 10206. Technician positions

##### § 10206. Technician positions

(a) In General.—

(1) Each member whose position is determined under section 10202(a)(3) to be included as a technician position shall, on or after such date, receive, in addition to the member’s scheduled rate of basic pay, an amount equal to 6 percent of the sum of such member’s rate of basic pay and the applicable locality-based comparability payment.

(2) A member described in this subsection shall receive the additional compensation authorized by this subsection until such time as the member’s position is determined under section 10202(a)(3) not to be a technician position, or until the member no longer occupies such position, whichever occurs first.

(3) The additional compensation authorized by this subsection shall be paid to a member in the same manner and at the same time as the member’s basic pay is paid.

(b) Exceptions.—

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the additional compensation authorized by subsection (a)(1) shall be considered as basic pay for all purposes, including section 8401(4).

(2) The additional compensation authorized by subsection (a)(1) shall not be considered as basic pay for the purposes of—

(A) section 5304; or

(B) section 7511(a)(4).

(3) The loss of the additional compensation authorized by subsection (a)(1) shall not constitute an adverse action for the purposes of section 7512.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–282, § 2(a)](/us/pl/111/282/s2/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3037](/us/stat/124/3037).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of first pay period which begins after Oct. 15, 2010, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 111–282](/us/pl/111/282/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2010 Amendment note under [section 5102 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5102).
