---
title: "§ 6175. Accelerated schedule for defense environmental cleanup activities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6175"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6175"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1388](/us/stat/139/1388).)"
---
# § 6175. Accelerated schedule for defense environmental cleanup activities

##### § 6175. Accelerated schedule for defense environmental cleanup activities

(a) Accelerated Cleanup.— The Secretary of Energy shall accelerate the schedule for defense environmental cleanup activities and disposition projects for a site at a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility if the Secretary determines that such an accelerated schedule will accelerate the recapitalization, modernization, or replacement of National Nuclear Security Administration facilities supporting the nuclear weapons stockpile, achieve meaningful, long-term cost savings to the Federal Government, or could substantially accelerate the release of land for local reuse without undermining national security objectives.

(b) Consideration of Factors.— In making a determination under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider the following:

(1) The extent to which accelerated cleanup schedules can contribute to a more rapid modernization of National Nuclear Security Administration facilities.

(2) The cost savings achievable by the Federal Government.

(3) The potential for reuse of the site.

(4) The risks that the site poses to local health and safety.

(5) The proximity of the site to populated areas.

(c) Savings Provision.— Nothing in this section may be construed to affect a specific statutory requirement for a specific defense environmental cleanup activity or project or to modify or otherwise affect applicable statutory or regulatory defense environmental cleanup requirements, including substantive standards intended to protect public health and the environment.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1388](/us/stat/139/1388).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2585 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2585), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
