---
title: "§ 290cc–26. Provision of certain information from State"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290cc–26"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290cc–26"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 526, as added [Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, § 611(3)](/us/pl/100/77/tVI/s611/3), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 519](/us/stat/101/519); amended [Pub. L. 101–645, title V, § 511](/us/pl/101/645/tV/s511), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4729](/us/stat/104/4729).)"
---
# § 290cc–26. Provision of certain information from State

##### § 290cc–26. Provision of certain information from State

(1) identifying existing programs providing services and housing to eligible homeless individuals and identify gaps in the delivery systems of such programs;

(2) containing a plan for providing services and housing to eligible homeless individuals, which plan—

(A) describes the coordinated and comprehensive means of providing services and housing to homeless individuals; and

(B) includes documentation that suitable housing for eligible homeless individuals will accompany the provision of services to such individuals;

(3) describes the source of the non-Federal contributions described in [section 290cc–23 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–23);

(4) contains assurances that the non-Federal contributions described in [section 290cc–23 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–23) will be available at the beginning of the grant period;

(5) describe any voucher system that may be used to carry out this part; and

(6) contain such other information or assurances as the Secretary may reasonably require.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 526, as added [Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, § 611(3)](/us/pl/100/77/tVI/s611/3), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 519](/us/stat/101/519); amended [Pub. L. 101–645, title V, § 511](/us/pl/101/645/tV/s511), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4729](/us/stat/104/4729).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 526 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 547 by [section 611(2) of Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77/s611/2) and is classified to [section 290ee–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290ee–2).

#### Amendments

1990—[Pub. L. 101–645](/us/pl/101/645) amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to providing certain information from State for provisions relating to requirement of submission of description of intended use of block grant.
