---
title: "§ 1334. Cooperation with other agencies"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1334"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1334"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title III, § 334, [46 Stat. 700](/us/stat/46/700).)"
---
# § 1334. Cooperation with other agencies

##### § 1334. Cooperation with other agencies

The commission shall in appropriate matters act in conjunction and cooperation with the Treasury Department, the Department of Commerce, the Federal Trade Commission, or any other departments, or independent establishments of the Government, and such departments and independent establishments of the Government shall cooperate fully with the commission for the purposes of aiding and assisting in its work, and, when directed by the President, shall furnish to the commission, on its request, all records, papers, and information in their possession relating to any of the subjects of investigation by the commission and shall detail, from time to time, such officials and employees to said commission as he may direct.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title III, § 334, [46 Stat. 700](/us/stat/46/700).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Sept. 8, 1916, ch. 463, § 707](/us/act/1916-09-08/ch463/s707), [39 Stat. 797](/us/stat/39/797). That section was superseded by section 334 of act June 17, 1930, comprising this section.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Executive and administrative functions of Federal Trade Commission transferred, with certain reservations, to Chairman of such Commission by Reorg. Plan No. 8 of 1950, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, [64 Stat. 1264](/us/stat/64/1264), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
