---
title: "§ 7901. Congressional declaration of national policy"
identifier: "USC-T16-S7901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section7901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–9, title IV, § 4001](/us/pl/116/9/tIV/s4001), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 756](/us/stat/133/756).)"
---
# § 7901. Congressional declaration of national policy

##### § 7901. Congressional declaration of national policy

(a) In general Congress declares that it is the policy of the United States that Federal departments and agencies, in accordance with the missions of the departments and agencies, Executive Orders 12962 and 13443 (60 Fed. Reg. 30769 (June 7, 1995); 72 Fed. Reg. 46537 (August 16, 2007)), and applicable law, shall—

(1) facilitate the expansion and enhancement of hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting opportunities on Federal land, in consultation with the Wildlife and Hunting Heritage Conservation Council, the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council, State and Tribal fish and wildlife agencies, and the public;

(2) conserve and enhance aquatic systems and the management of game species and the habitat of those species on Federal land, including through hunting and fishing, in a manner that respects—

(A) State management authority over wildlife resources; and

(B) private property rights; and

(3) consider hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting opportunities as part of all Federal plans for land, resource, and travel management.

(b) Exclusion In this title,11 See References in Text note below. the term “fishing” does not include commercial fishing in which fish are harvested, either in whole or in part, that are intended to enter commerce through sale.

*([Pub. L. 116–9, title IV, § 4001](/us/pl/116/9/tIV/s4001), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 756](/us/stat/133/756).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order 12962, referred to in subsec. (a), is Ex. Ord. No. 12962, June 7, 1995, 60 F.R. 30769, which is set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1801).

Executive Order 13443, referred to in subsec. (a), is Ex. Ord. No. 13443, Aug. 16, 2007, 72 F.R. 46537, which is set out as a note under [section 661 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s661).

This title, referred to in subsec. (b), means title IV of [Pub. L. 116–9](/us/pl/116/9), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 756](/us/stat/133/756), which enacted this chapter and amended [section 704 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s704), [section 504 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s504), Government Organization and Employees, [section 2412 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2412), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, and [section 1304 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1304), Money and Finance. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Tables.
