---
title: "§ 9203. Evaluation and research plan"
identifier: "USC-T7-S9203"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section9203"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. P, § 4](/us/pl/116/260/dP/s4), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2160](/us/stat/134/2160).)"
---
# § 9203. Evaluation and research plan

##### § 9203. Evaluation and research plan

(a) In general Not less frequently than biennially, the Secretary of Agriculture, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, shall—

(1) evaluate the work of the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility;

(2) develop, biennially update, and publish a strategic plan for research at the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility based on priority risk and threat assessments, including strategies to—

(A) develop veterinary countermeasures for emerging foreign animal diseases and animal transboundary diseases;

(B) provide advanced testing, diagnostic, and evaluation capabilities for threat detection, vulnerability assessments of animal and zoonotic diseases, and veterinary countermeasures for animal and zoonotic diseases;

(C) assist, as appropriate, with the development, and address vulnerability assessments, of the agriculture and food sectors;

(D) address gaps in the ongoing animal and zoonotic disease research efforts across the Federal Government, ensuring not to duplicate those ongoing efforts; and

(E) be used for such other purposes as the Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, determines to be appropriate; and

(3) submit to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the strategic plan for research described in paragraph (2).

(b) Classified information The strategic plan for research required under subsection (a)(2)—

(1) shall be published in an unclassified format that is publicly available;

(2) shall be submitted under subsection (a)(3) in unclassified form; and

(3) may include in the submission under subsection (a)(3) a classified annex for any sensitive or classified information, as necessary.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. P, § 4](/us/pl/116/260/dP/s4), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2160](/us/stat/134/2160).)*
