---
title: "§ 250. Medical care and treatment of Federal prisoners"
identifier: "USC-T42-S250"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section250"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 323, [58 Stat. 697](/us/stat/58/697).)"
---
# § 250. Medical care and treatment of Federal prisoners

##### § 250. Medical care and treatment of Federal prisoners

The Service shall supervise and furnish medical treatment and other necessary medical, psychiatric, and related technical and scientific services, authorized by [section 4005 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4005), in penal and correctional institutions of the United States.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 323, [58 Stat. 697](/us/stat/58/697).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

“[Section 4005 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4005)” substituted in text for “the Act of May 13, 1930, as amended (U.S.C., 1940 edition, title 18, secs. 751, 752)” on authority of [act June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 684](/us/stat/62/684), the first section of which enacted Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Public Health Service, Surgeon General of Public Health Service, and all other officers and employees of Public Health Service, and functions of all agencies of or in Public Health Service transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, eff. June 25, 1966, 31 F.R. 8855, [80 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/80/1610), set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202).
