---
title: "§ 17113. Industrial emissions reduction technology development program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17113"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17113"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 454](/us/pl/110/140/tIV/s454), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VI, § 6003(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVI/s6003/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2553](/us/stat/134/2553); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, § 40521(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tV/s40521/a/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/135/1062).)"
---
# § 17113. Industrial emissions reduction technology development program

##### § 17113. Industrial emissions reduction technology development program

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Director The term “Director” means the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.

(2) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means—

(A) a scientist or other individual with knowledge and expertise in emissions reduction;

(B) an institution of higher education;

(C) a nongovernmental organization;

(D) a National Laboratory;

(E) a private entity; and

(F) a partnership or consortium of 2 or more entities described in subparagraphs (B) through (E).

(3) Emissions reduction

(A) In general The term “emissions reduction” means the reduction, to the maximum extent practicable, of net nonwater greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by energy services and industrial processes.

(B) Exclusion The term “emissions reduction” does not include the elimination of carbon embodied in the principal products of industrial manufacturing.

(4) Program The term “program” means the program established under subsection (b)(1).

(5) Critical material or mineral The term “critical material or mineral” means a material or mineral that serves an essential function in the manufacturing of a product and has a high risk of a supply disruption, such that a shortage of such a material or mineral would have significant consequences for United States economic or national security.

(b) Industrial emissions reduction technology development program

(1) In general Not later than 1 year after December 27, 2020, the Secretary, in consultation with the Director, the heads of relevant Federal agencies, National Laboratories, industry, and institutions of higher education, shall establish a crosscutting industrial emissions reduction technology development program of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application to advance innovative technologies that—

(A) increase the technological and economic competitiveness of industry and manufacturing in the United States;

(B) increase the viability and competitiveness of United States industrial technology exports; and

(C) achieve emissions reduction in nonpower industrial sectors.

(2) Coordination In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall—

(A) coordinate with each relevant office in the Department and any other Federal agency;

(B) coordinate and collaborate with the Industrial Technology Innovation Advisory Committee established under [section 17115 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17115); and

(C) coordinate and seek to avoid duplication with the Future of Industry 11 So in original. program established under [section 17111 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17111).

(3) Leverage of existing resources In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall leverage, to the maximum extent practicable—

(A) existing resources and programs of the Department and other relevant Federal agencies; and

(B) public-private partnerships.

(c) Focus areas The program shall focus on—

(1) industrial production processes, including technologies and processes that—

(A) achieve emissions reduction in high emissions industrial materials production processes, including production processes for iron, steel, steel mill products, aluminum, cement, concrete, glass, pulp, paper, and industrial ceramics;

(B) achieve emissions reduction in medium- and high-temperature heat generation, including—

(i) through electrification of heating processes;

(ii) through renewable heat generation technology;

(iii) through combined heat and power; and

(iv) by switching to alternative fuels, including hydrogen and nuclear energy;

(C) achieve emissions reduction in chemical production processes, including by incorporating, if appropriate and practicable, principles, practices, and methodologies of sustainable chemistry and engineering;

(D) leverage smart manufacturing technologies and principles, digital manufacturing technologies, and advanced data analytics to develop advanced technologies and practices in information, automation, monitoring, computation, sensing, modeling, and networking to—

(i) model and simulate manufacturing production lines;

(ii) monitor and communicate production line status;

(iii) manage and optimize energy productivity and cost throughout production; and

(iv) model, simulate, and optimize the energy efficiency of manufacturing processes;

(E) leverage the principles of sustainable manufacturing to minimize the potential negative environmental impacts of manufacturing while conserving energy and resources, including—

(i) by designing products that enable reuse, refurbishment, remanufacturing, and recycling;

(ii) by minimizing waste from industrial processes, including through the reuse of waste as other resources in other industrial processes for mutual benefit; and

(iii) by increasing resource efficiency; and

(F) increase the energy efficiency of industrial processes;

(2) alternative materials that produce fewer emissions during production and result in fewer emissions during use, including—

(A) high-performance lightweight materials; and

(B) substitutions for critical materials and minerals;

(3) development of net-zero emissions liquid and gaseous fuels;

(4) emissions reduction in shipping, aviation, and long distance transportation;

(5) carbon capture technologies for industrial processes;

(6) other technologies that achieve net-zero emissions in nonpower industrial sectors, as determined by the Secretary, in consultation with the Director; and

(7) high-performance computing to develop advanced materials and manufacturing processes contributing to the focus areas described in paragraphs (1) through (6), including—

(A) modeling, simulation, and optimization of the design of energy efficient and sustainable products; and

(B) the use of digital prototyping and additive manufacturing to enhance product design.

(8) incorporation of sustainable chemistry and engineering principles, practices, and methodologies, as the Secretary determines appropriate; and

(9) other research or technology areas identified in the Strategic Plan authorized in [section 17114 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17114).

(d) Grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and demonstration projects

(1) Grants In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall award grants on a competitive basis to eligible entities for projects that the Secretary determines would best achieve the goals of the program.

(2) Contracts and cooperative agreements In carrying out the program, the Secretary may enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with eligible entities and Federal agencies for projects that the Secretary determines would further the purposes of the program.

(3) Demonstration projects In supporting technologies developed under this section, the Secretary shall fund demonstration projects that test and validate technologies described in subsection (c).

(4) Application An entity seeking funding or a contract or agreement under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(5) Cost sharing In awarding funds under this section, the Secretary shall require cost sharing in accordance with [section 16352 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16352).

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the demonstration projects authorized in subsection (d)(3)—

(1) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;

(2) $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2022;

(3) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2023;

(4) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2024; and

(5) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2025.

(f) Coordination The Secretary shall carry out the activities authorized in this section in accordance with [section 18631 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18631).

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 454](/us/pl/110/140/tIV/s454), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VI, § 6003(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVI/s6003/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2553](/us/stat/134/2553); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, § 40521(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tV/s40521/a/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/135/1062).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b)(2)(C). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) substituted “Future of Industry” for “energy-intensive industries”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), including authority of Secretary of Labor, see [section 18851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18851).

#### Purpose

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VI, § 6001](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVI/s6001), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2552](/us/stat/134/2552), provided that: “The purpose of this title [enacting this section and sections 17114 to 17115a of this title and amending [section 6351 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6351)] and the amendments made by this title is to encourage the development and evaluation of innovative technologies aimed at increasing— “(1) the technological and economic competitiveness of industry and manufacturing in the United States; and “(2) the emissions reduction of nonpower industrial sectors.”
