---
title: "§ 404c–11. Secretary of the Interior authorized to acquire additional lands; appropriation; approval of title"
identifier: "USC-T16-S404c–11"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section404c–11"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 5, 1942, ch. 341, § 11](/us/act/1942-06-05/ch341/s11), [56 Stat. 319](/us/stat/56/319); [June 30, 1948, ch. 764](/us/act/1948-06-30/ch764), [62 Stat. 1165](/us/stat/62/1165).)"
---
# § 404c–11. Secretary of the Interior authorized to acquire additional lands; appropriation; approval of title

##### § 404c–11. Secretary of the Interior authorized to acquire additional lands; appropriation; approval of title

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized in his discretion to acquire for inclusion within the Mammoth Cave National Park by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, any lands, interests in lands, and other property within the maximum boundaries thereof as authorized by sections 404 to 404b and 404c of this title, notwithstanding the provisions of sections 404b–1 and 404f of this title, or any action taken thereunder to exclude certain caves from the park area.

In order to provide for acquisition of property on behalf of the United States, in accordance with the provisions of this section, there is authorized to be appropriated the sum of not to exceed $350,000. Any of the funds appropriated pursuant to the provisions hereof which are not needed to acquire property as authorized by this section may, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, be used to acquire lands and interests in lands required for the development of a proper and suitable entrance road to Mammoth Cave National Park, as authorized in [section 404c–12 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s404c–12). The funds heretofore deposited in the Treasury under special fund receipt account 146664 shall, upon June 30, 1948, be transferred to the general fund of the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: *Provided*, That no part of this authorization shall be used for road development or construction until after all the lands within the maximum boundaries, as authorized by sections 404 to 404b and 404c of this title, have been acquired by purchase, condemnation or otherwise.

The title to lands, interests in lands, and other property to be acquired pursuant to this Act shall be satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior. Any property acquired pursuant to said sections upon acquisition by the Federal Government, shall become a part of the park, and shall be subject to all laws and regulations applicable thereto.

*([June 5, 1942, ch. 341, § 11](/us/act/1942-06-05/ch341/s11), [56 Stat. 319](/us/stat/56/319); [June 30, 1948, ch. 764](/us/act/1948-06-30/ch764), [62 Stat. 1165](/us/stat/62/1165).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 404c of this title](/us/usc/t16/s404c), referred to in text, was omitted from the Code.

This Act, referred to in text, is act June 5, 1942, which is classified to sections 404c–1 to 404c–12 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

1948—Act June 30, 1948, amended section to provide for an appropriation of $350,000 to acquire additional cave lands.
