---
title: "§ 3522. Agency plans; approval"
identifier: "USC-T5-S3522"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section3522"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–296, title XIII, § 1313(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/107/296/tXIII/s1313/a/1/A), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2292](/us/stat/116/2292).)"
---
# § 3522. Agency plans; approval

##### § 3522. Agency plans; approval

(a) Before obligating any resources for voluntary separation incentive payments, the head of each agency shall submit to the Office of Personnel Management a plan outlining the intended use of such incentive payments and a proposed organizational chart for the agency once such incentive payments have been completed.

(b) The plan of an agency under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) the specific positions and functions to be reduced or eliminated;

(2) a description of which categories of employees will be offered incentives;

(3) the time period during which incentives may be paid;

(4) the number and amounts of voluntary separation incentive payments to be offered; and

(5) a description of how the agency will operate without the eliminated positions and functions.

(c) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall review each agency’s plan an 11 So in original. Probably should be “and”. may make any appropriate modifications in the plan, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. A plan under this section may not be implemented without the approval of the Directive 22 So in original. Probably should be “Director”. of the Office of Personnel Management.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–296, title XIII, § 1313(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/107/296/tXIII/s1313/a/1/A), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2292](/us/stat/116/2292).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 60 days after Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 1313(a)(4) of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s1313/a/4), set out as a note under [section 3521 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s3521).
