---
title: "§ 9414b. United States Air Force Institute of Technology: administration"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9414b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9414b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 554(a)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tV/s554/a), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/125/1414), § 9314b; renumbered § 9414b, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/a/3), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1832](/us/stat/132/1832); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 556(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s556/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1392](/us/stat/133/1392); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 923(d)(5)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/t"
---
# § 9414b. United States Air Force Institute of Technology: administration

##### § 9414b. United States Air Force Institute of Technology: administration

(a) Director and Chancellor.—

(1) Selection.— The Director and Chancellor of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology shall be selected by the Secretary of the Air Force.

(2) Eligibility.— The Director and Chancellor shall be one of the following:

(A) An officer of the Air Force or the Space Force on active duty in a grade not below the grade of colonel who possesses such qualifications as the Secretary considers appropriate and is assigned or detailed to such position.

(B) A member of the Senior Executive Service or a civilian individual, including an individual who was retired from the Air Force or the Space Force in a grade not below brigadier general, who has the qualifications appropriate for the position of Director and Chancellor and is selected by the Secretary as the best qualified from among candidates for the position in accordance with a process and criteria determined by the Secretary.

(3) Term for civilian director and chancellor.— An individual selected for the position of Director and Chancellor under paragraph (2)(B) shall serve in that position for a term of not more than five years and may be continued in that position for an additional term of up to five years.

(b) Provost and Chief Academic Officer.—

(1) In general.— There is established at the United States Air Force Institute of Technology the civilian position of Provost and Chief Academic Officer who shall be selected by the Secretary.

(2) Term.— An individual selected for the position of Provost and Chief Academic Officer shall serve in that position for a term of not more than five years and may be continued in that position for an additional term of up to five years.

(3) Compensation.— The individual serving as Provost and Chief Academic Officer is entitled to such compensation for such service as the Secretary shall prescribe for purposes of this section, but not more than the rate of compensation authorized for level IV of the Executive Schedule.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 554(a)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tV/s554/a), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/125/1414), § 9314b; renumbered § 9414b, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/a/3), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1832](/us/stat/132/1832); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 556(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s556/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1392](/us/stat/133/1392); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 923(d)(5)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s923/d/5), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3814](/us/stat/134/3814); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title V, § 554(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tV/s554/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2594](/us/stat/136/2594); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521)(*l*), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1882](/us/stat/138/1882).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Level IV of the Executive Schedule, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is set out in [section 5315 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) struck out “or the equivalent grade in the Space Force” after “brigadier general”.

2022—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 554(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/263/s554/b/2), substituted “Chief Academic Officer” for “Academic Dean” wherever appearing.

[Pub. L. 117–263, § 554(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/s554/b/1), substituted “Chief Academic Officer” for “Academic Dean” in heading.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 554(b)(3)](/us/pl/117/263/s554/b/3), substituted “selected” for “appointed”.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 554(b)(4)](/us/pl/117/263/s554/b/4), added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “An individual appointed to the position of Provost and Academic Dean shall serve in that position for a term of five years.”

2021—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 923(d)(5)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/s923/d/5/A), inserted “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force” in two places.

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 923(d)(5)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s923/d/5/B), inserted “or the equivalent grade in the Space Force” after “brigadier general”.

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–92, § 556(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/s556/a/1), (2), substituted “Director and Chancellor” for “Commandant” in heading and “Director and Chancellor” for “Commandant” wherever appearing in text.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 116–92, § 556(a)(3)](/us/pl/116/92/s556/a/3), which directed substitution of “Director and Chancellor” for “Commandant” in heading, was executed by substituting “director and chancellor” for “commandant” to reflect the probable intent of Congress and conform the style of paragraph headings to that used in this title.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 9314b of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9314b) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 556(c)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s556/c), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1392](/us/stat/133/1392), provided that: “Any reference in any law, regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Commandant of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology shall be deemed to be a reference to the Director and Chancellor of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology.”

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
