---
title: "§ 1397n–10. Website"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1397n–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1397n–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2061, as added [Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title VIII, § 50802(2)](/us/pl/115/123/dE/tVIII/s50802/2), Feb. 9, 2018, [132 Stat. 281](/us/stat/132/281).)"
---
# § 1397n–10. Website

##### § 1397n–10. Website

(1) A copy of, or method of accessing, each notice published regarding a social impact partnership project pursuant to this division.

(2) A copy of each feasibility study funded under this division.

(3) For each State or local government that has entered into an agreement with the Secretary for a social impact partnership project, the website shall contain the following information:

(A) The outcome goals of the project.

(B) A description of each intervention in the project.

(C) The target population that will be served by the project.

(D) The expected social benefits to participants who receive the intervention and others who may be impacted.

(E) The detailed roles, responsibilities, and purposes of each Federal, State, or local government entity, intermediary, service provider, independent evaluator, investor, or other stakeholder.

(F) The payment terms, methodology used to calculate outcome payments, the payment schedule, and performance thresholds.

(G) The project budget.

(H) The project timeline.

(I) The project eligibility criteria.

(J) The evaluation design.

(K) The metrics used to determine whether the proposed outcomes have been achieved and how these metrics are measured.

(4) A copy of the progress reports and the final reports relating to each social impact partnership project.

(5) An estimate of the savings to the Federal, State, and local government, on a program-by-program basis and in the aggregate, resulting from the successful completion of the social impact partnership project.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2061, as added [Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title VIII, § 50802(2)](/us/pl/115/123/dE/tVIII/s50802/2), Feb. 9, 2018, [132 Stat. 281](/us/stat/132/281).)*
