---
title: "§ 3325. Reaffirmation of longstanding prohibition against drug trafficking by employees of the intelligence community"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3325"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3325"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–120, title III, § 313](/us/pl/106/120/tIII/s313), Dec. 3, 1999, [113 Stat. 1615](/us/stat/113/1615).)"
---
# § 3325. Reaffirmation of longstanding prohibition against drug trafficking by employees of the intelligence community

##### § 3325. Reaffirmation of longstanding prohibition against drug trafficking by employees of the intelligence community

(a) Finding Congress finds that longstanding statutes, regulations, and policies of the United States prohibit employees, agents, and assets of the elements of the intelligence community, and of every other Federal department and agency, from engaging in the illegal manufacture, purchase, sale, transport, and distribution of drugs.

(b) Obligation of employees of intelligence community Any employee of the intelligence community having knowledge of a fact or circumstance that reasonably indicates that an employee, agent, or asset of an element of the intelligence community is involved in any activity that violates a statute, regulation, or policy described in subsection (a) shall report such knowledge to an appropriate official.

(c) Intelligence community defined In this section, the term “intelligence community” has the meaning given that term in [section 3003(4) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003/4).

*([Pub. L. 106–120, title III, § 313](/us/pl/106/120/tIII/s313), Dec. 3, 1999, [113 Stat. 1615](/us/stat/113/1615).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403–8 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403–8) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
