---
title: "§ 1466. Administration of oaths, affirmations, etc., by employees of Division of Investigations; force and effect"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1466"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1466"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 878](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch878), [54 Stat. 1175](/us/stat/54/1175).)"
---
# § 1466. Administration of oaths, affirmations, etc., by employees of Division of Investigations; force and effect

##### § 1466. Administration of oaths, affirmations, etc., by employees of Division of Investigations; force and effect

Special agents and such other employees of the Division of Investigations, Department of the Interior of the United States, as are designated by the Secretary of the Interior for that purpose, are authorized and empowered to administer to or take from any person an oath, affirmation, affidavit, or deposition whenever necessary in the performance of their official duties. Any such oath, affirmation, affidavit, or deposition administered or taken by or before a special agent or such other employee of the Division of Investigations, Department of the Interior, designated by the Secretary of the Interior, when certified under his hand, shall have like force and effect as if administered or taken before an officer having a seal.

*([Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 878](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch878), [54 Stat. 1175](/us/stat/54/1175).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 498 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s498) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).
