---
title: "§ 1448. Price support levels for storable nonbasic agricultural commodities"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1448"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1448"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Oct. 31, 1949, ch. 792](/us/act/1949-10-31/ch792), title III, § 302, [63 Stat. 1053](/us/stat/63/1053).)"
---
# § 1448. Price support levels for storable nonbasic agricultural commodities

##### § 1448. Price support levels for storable nonbasic agricultural commodities

Without restricting price support to those commodities for which a marketing quota or marketing agreement or order program is in effect, price support shall, insofar as feasible, be made available to producers of any storable nonbasic agricultural commodity for which such a program is in effect and who are complying with such program. The level of such support shall not be in excess of 90 per centum of the parity price of such commodity nor less than the level provided in the following table: If the supply percentage as of the beginning of the marketing year is:The level of support shall be not less than the following percentage of the parity price:

*([Oct. 31, 1949, ch. 792](/us/act/1949-10-31/ch792), title III, § 302, [63 Stat. 1053](/us/stat/63/1053).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Inapplicability of Section

Section inapplicable to 2014 through 2018 crops of covered commodities, cotton, and sugar and inapplicable to milk during period beginning Feb. 7, 2014, through Dec. 31, 2018, see [section 9092(b)(9) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s9092/b/9).

Section inapplicable to 2008 through 2012 crops of covered commodities, peanuts, and sugar and inapplicable to milk during period beginning June 18, 2008, through Dec. 31, 2012, see [section 8782(b)(9) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8782/b/9).

Section inapplicable to 2002 through 2007 crops of covered commodities, peanuts, and sugar and inapplicable to milk during period beginning May 13, 2002, through Dec. 31, 2007, see [section 7992(b)(9) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7992/b/9).

Section inapplicable to 1996 through 2002 crops of loan commodities, peanuts, and sugar and inapplicable to milk during period beginning Apr. 4, 1996, and ending Dec. 31, 2002, see [section 7301(b)(1)(I) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7301/b/1/I).
