---
title: "§ 2806. Geospatial data standards"
identifier: "USC-T43-S2806"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section2806"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title VII, § 757](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tVII/s757), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3423](/us/stat/132/3423).)"
---
# § 2806. Geospatial data standards

##### § 2806. Geospatial data standards

(a) In general In accordance with section 216 of the E-Government Act of 2002 ([44 U.S.C. 3501](/us/usc/t44/s3501) note), the Committee shall establish standards for each National Geospatial Data Asset data theme, which—

(1) shall include—

(A) rules, conditions, guidelines, and characteristics for the geospatial data within the National Geospatial Data Asset data theme and related processes, technology, and organization; and

(B) content standards for metadata for geospatial data within the National Geospatial Data Asset data theme;

(2) to the maximum extent practicable, shall be consistent with international standards and protocols;

(3) shall include universal data standards that shall be acceptable for the purposes of declassified intelligence community data; and

(4) the Committee shall periodically review and update as necessary for the standards to remain current, relevant, and effective.

(b) Development of standards The Committee shall—

(1) develop and promulgate standards under this section—

(A) in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular A–119, or any successor thereto; and

(B) after consultation with a broad range of data users and providers;

(2) to the maximum extent possible, use national and international standards adopted by voluntary standards consensus bodies; and

(3) establish new standards only to the extent standards described in paragraph (2) do not exist.

(c) Exclusion The Secretary of the Interior shall withhold from public disclosure any information the disclosure of which reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national interest, security, or defense of the United States, including information relating to geospatial intelligence data activities, as determined in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title VII, § 757](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tVII/s757), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3423](/us/stat/132/3423).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 216 of the E-Government Act of 2002, referred to in subsec. (a), is [section 216 of Pub. L. 107–347](/us/pl/107/347/s216), which is set out in a note under [section 3501 of Title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3501), Public Printing and Documents.
