---
title: "§ 8441. Gateway communities"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8441"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8441"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 131](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s131), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2858](/us/stat/138/2858).)"
---
# § 8441. Gateway communities

##### § 8441. Gateway communities

(a) Assessment of impacts and needs in gateway communities The Secretaries—

(1) shall collaborate with State and local governments, Indian Tribes, housing authorities, applicable trade associations, nonprofit organizations, private entities, and other relevant stakeholders to identify needs and economic impacts in gateway communities, including—

(A) housing shortages;

(B) demands on existing municipal infrastructure;

(C) accommodation and management of sustainable visitation; and

(D) the expansion and diversification of visitor experiences by bolstering the visitation at—

(i) existing developed locations that are underutilized on nearby Federal recreational lands and waters that are suitable for developing, expanding, or enhancing recreation use, as identified by the Secretaries; or

(ii) existing developed and suitable lesser-known recreation sites, as identified under section 5(b)(1)(B),11 See References in Text note below. on nearby land managed by a State agency or a local agency; and

(2) may address a need identified under paragraph (1) by—

(A) providing financial or technical assistance to a gateway community under an existing program;

(B) entering into an agreement, right-of-way, or easement, in accordance with applicable laws; or

(C) issuing an entity referred to in paragraph (1) a special use permit (other than a special recreation permit (as defined in [section 6801 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6801)), in accordance with applicable laws.

(b) Technical and financial assistance to businesses

(1) In general The Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the Administrator of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service), in coordination with the Secretary and the Secretary of Commerce, shall provide to businesses in gateway communities the assistance described in paragraph (2) to establish, operate, or expand infrastructure to accommodate and manage sustainable visitation, including hotels, campgrounds, and restaurants.

(2) Assistance The Secretary of Agriculture may provide assistance under paragraph (1) through the use of existing, or the establishment of new, entrepreneur and vocational training programs, technical assistance programs, low-interest business loan programs, and loan guarantee programs.

(c) Partnerships In carrying out this section, the Secretaries may, in accordance with applicable laws, enter into a public-private partnership, cooperative agreement, memorandum of understanding, or similar agreement with a gateway community or a business in a gateway community.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 131](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s131), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2858](/us/stat/138/2858).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 5(b)(1)(B), referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(D)(ii), probably means [section 8442(b)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8442/b/1/B). Section 5(b)(1)(B) probably referred to section 5(b)(1)(B) of H.R. 3200 introduced in the House in the 118th Congress on May 10, 2023. A later version of H.R. 3200 was enacted as subtitle C of title I of [Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234), and, as enacted, does not contain a section 5. However, [section 132(b)(1)(B) of Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234/s132/b/1/B), which is classified to [section 8442(b)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8442/b/1/B), contains provisions identical to those in section 5(b)(1)(B) of H.R. 3200.
