---
title: "§ 220521. Certification of national governing bodies"
identifier: "USC-T36-S220521"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section220521"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/112/1471); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142](/us/pl/105/277/dC/tI/s142)(*l*), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–607](/us/stat/112/2681-607); [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(20)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/20), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/120/1212); [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/a/1), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 955](/us/stat/134/955).)"
---
# § 220521. Certification of national governing bodies

##### § 220521. Certification of national governing bodies

(a) In General.— With respect to each sport included on the program of the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, the Pan-American Games, or the Parapan American Games, the corporation—

(1) may certify as a national governing body an amateur sports organization, a high-performance management organization, or a paralympic sports organization that files an application and is eligible for such certification under section 220522; and

(2) may not certify more than 1 national governing body.

(b) Public Hearing.— Before certifying an organization as a national governing body, the corporation shall hold at least 2 public hearings on the application. The corporation shall publish notice of the time, place, and nature of the hearings. Publication shall be made in a regular issue of the corporation’s principal publication at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, before the date of the hearings. The corporation shall send written notice, which shall include a copy of the application, at least 30 days prior to the date of any such public hearing to all amateur sports organizations known to the corporation in that sport.

(c) Recommendation to International Sports Federation.— Within 61 days after certifying an organization as a national governing body, the corporation shall recommend and support in any appropriate manner the national governing body to the appropriate international sports federation as the representative of the United States for that sport.

(d) Review of Certification.— Not later than 8 years after the date of the enactment of the Empowering Olympic, Paralympic, and Amateur Athletes Act of 2020, and not less frequently than once every 4 years thereafter, the corporation—

(1) shall review all matters related to the continued certification of an organization as a national governing body;

(2) may take action the corporation considers appropriate, including placing conditions on the continued certification of an organization as a national governing body;

(3) shall submit to Congress a summary report of each review under paragraph (1); and

(4) shall make each such summary report available to the public.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/112/1471); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142](/us/pl/105/277/dC/tI/s142)(*l*), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–607](/us/stat/112/2681-607); [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(20)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/20), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/120/1212); [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/a/1), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 955](/us/stat/134/955).)*

In subsection (b), the words “under the authority granted under this subchapter and in accordance with the procedures and requirements of this section” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “public hearing” are substituted for “hearing open to the public”, and the words “for such recognition” are omitted, to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (c), the words “in accordance with subsection (a) of this section” in 36:391(d) and “in accordance with this subsection” in 36:395(b)(5) are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 220521(a) | 36:391(a) (1st, 2d sentences). | Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title II, §§ 201(a), (d), 204, 205(b)(5), as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 2, 92 Stat. 3050, 3052, 3055, 3057. |
| 220521(b) | 36:391(a) (3d–last sentences). |  |
| 220521(c) | 36:391(d).36:395(b)(5). |  |
| 220521(d) | 36:394. |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Empowering Olympic, Paralympic, and Amateur Athletes Act of 2020, referred to in subsec. (d), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 116–189](/us/pl/116/189), which was approved Oct. 30, 2020.

#### Amendments

2020—[Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/a/1/A), substituted “Certification of national governing bodies” for “Recognition of amateur sports organizations as national governing bodies” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/a/1/B), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) provided general authority for the corporation to recognize an eligible amateur sports organization as a national governing body.

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(a)(1)(C)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/a/1/C), (D), substituted “certifying” for “recognizing”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(a)(1)(E)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/a/1/E), amended subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The corporation may review all matters related to the continued recognition of an organization as a national governing body and may take action it considers appropriate, including placing conditions on the continued recognition.”

2006—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–284](/us/pl/109/284) substituted “subsection” for “subsections”.

1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142](/us/pl/105/277/s142)(*l*)(1), inserted first sentence and struck out former first sentence which read as follows: “For any sport that is included on the program of the Olympic Games or the Pan-American Games, the corporation may recognize as a national governing body an amateur sports organization that files an application and is eligible under [section 220522 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s220522).”

[Pub. L. 105–277, § 142](/us/pl/105/277/s142)(*l*)(2), substituted “approved, except as provided in section 220522(b) with respect to a paralympic sports organization.” for “approved.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142](/us/pl/105/277/s142)(*l*)(3)–(5), substituted “hold at least 2 public hearings” for “hold a public hearing”, substituted “hearings.” for “hearing.” in two places, and inserted at end “The corporation shall send written notice, which shall include a copy of the application, at least 30 days prior to the date of any such public hearing to all amateur sports organizations known to the corporation in that sport.”
