---
title: "§ 1621v. Offices of Indian Men’s Health and Indian Women’s Health"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1621v"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1621v"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title II, § 223](/us/pl/94/437/tII/s223), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title II, § 216](/us/pl/102/573/tII/s216), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4559](/us/stat/106/4559); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1621v. Offices of Indian Men’s Health and Indian Women’s Health

##### § 1621v. Offices of Indian Men’s Health and Indian Women’s Health

(a) Office of Indian Men’s Health

(1) Establishment The Secretary may establish within the Service an office, to be known as the “Office of Indian Men’s Health”.

(2) Director

(A) In general The Office of Indian Men’s Health shall be headed by a director, to be appointed by the Secretary.

(B) Duties The director shall coordinate and promote the health status of Indian men in the United States.

(3) Report Not later than 2 years after March 23, 2010, the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall submit to Congress a report describing—

(A) any activity carried out by the director as of the date on which the report is prepared; and

(B) any finding of the director with respect to the health of Indian men.

(b) Office of Indian Women’s Health The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall establish an office, to be known as the “Office of Indian Women’s Health”, to monitor and improve the quality of health care for Indian women (including urban Indian women) of all ages through the planning and delivery of programs administered by the Service, in order to improve and enhance the treatment models of care for Indian women.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title II, § 223](/us/pl/94/437/tII/s223), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title II, § 216](/us/pl/102/573/tII/s216), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4559](/us/stat/106/4559); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on section 136 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) substituted “Offices of Indian Men’s Health and Indian Women’s Health” for “Office of Indian Women’s Health Care” in section catchline, added subsec. (a), designated existing provisions as subsec. (b), inserted subsec. (b) heading, substituted “The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall establish an office, to be known as the ‘Office of Indian Women’s Health’, to” for “There is established within the Service an Office of Indian Women’s Health Care to oversee efforts of the Service to”, and inserted “(including urban Indian women)” before “of all ages”.
