---
title: "§ 12442. Purpose areas"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12442"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12442"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41102](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41102), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title I, § 107](/us/pl/109/162/tI/s107), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 2983](/us/stat/119/2983).)"
---
# § 12442. Purpose areas

##### § 12442. Purpose areas

(1) to develop or improve protocols, procedures, and policies for the purpose of preventing the release of personally identifying information of victims (such as developing alternative identifiers);

(2) to defray the costs of modifying or improving existing databases, registries, and victim notification systems to ensure that personally identifying information of victims is protected from release, unauthorized information sharing and disclosure;

(3) to develop confidential opt out systems that will enable victims of violence to make a single request to keep personally identifying information out of multiple databases, victim notification systems, and registries; or

(4) to develop safe uses of technology (such as notice requirements regarding electronic surveillance by government entities), to protect against abuses of technology (such as electronic or GPS stalking), or providing training for law enforcement on high tech electronic crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41102](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41102), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title I, § 107](/us/pl/109/162/tI/s107), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 2983](/us/stat/119/2983).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14043b–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14043b–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
