---
title: "§ 548. Removing or repacking goods in warehouses"
identifier: "USC-T18-S548"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section548"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 717](/us/stat/62/717); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(K)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/K), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 548. Removing or repacking goods in warehouses

##### § 548. Removing or repacking goods in warehouses

Whoever fraudulently conceals, removes, or repacks merchandise in any bonded warehouse or fraudulently alters, defaces or obliterates any marks or numbers placed upon packages deposited in such warehouse, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than two years, or both.

Merchandise so concealed, removed, or repacked, or packages upon which any marks or numbers have been so altered, defaced, or obliterated, shall be forfeited to the United States.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 717](/us/stat/62/717); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(K)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/K), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on [section 1597 of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1597), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Customs Duties ([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 597, [46 Stat. 752](/us/stat/46/752)).

This section was rewritten to place the criminal provisions ahead of the forfeiture provisions. This did not require any substantive changes except omission of reference to persons aiding. Such persons are made principals by [section 2 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s2).

The punishment prescribed by [section 545 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s545) was inserted to make this section complete without reference to another section. In doing so it was necessary to rephrase the punishment provision of [section 545 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s545), as originally enacted, without change of substance.

Forfeiture provision was rephrased to make it clear that forfeiture was not dependent upon conviction.

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $5,000”.
