---
title: "§ 3503. Indian tribal energy resource regulation"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXVI, § 2603](/us/pl/102/486/tXXVI/s2603), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title V, § 503(a)](/us/pl/109/58/tV/s503/a), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 768](/us/stat/119/768); amended [Pub. L. 115–325, title I, § 102](/us/pl/115/325/tI/s102), Dec. 18, 2018, [132 Stat. 4447](/us/stat/132/4447).)"
---
# § 3503. Indian tribal energy resource regulation

##### § 3503. Indian tribal energy resource regulation

(a) Grants The Secretary may provide to Indian tribes, on an annual basis, grants for use in accordance with subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds Funds from a grant provided under this section may be used—

(1)

(A) by an Indian tribe for the development of a tribal energy resource inventory or tribal energy resource on Indian land;

(B) by an Indian tribe for the development of a feasibility study or other report necessary to the development of energy resources on Indian land;

(C) by an Indian tribe (other than an Indian Tribe in the State of Alaska, except the Metlakatla Indian Community) for—

(i) the development and enforcement of tribal laws (including regulations) relating to tribal energy resource development; and

(ii) the development of technical infrastructure to protect the environment under applicable law; or

(D) by a Native Corporation for the development and implementation of corporate policies and the development of technical infrastructure to protect the environment under applicable law; and

(2) by an Indian tribe for the training of employees that—

(A) are engaged in the development of energy resources on Indian land; or

(B) are responsible for protecting the environment.

(c) Other assistance

(1) In carrying out the obligations of the United States under this chapter, the Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable and to the extent of available resources, that on the request of an Indian tribe or a tribal energy development organization, the Indian tribe or tribal energy development organization shall have available scientific and technical information and expertise, for use in the regulation, development, and management of energy resources of the Indian tribe on Indian land.

(2) The Secretary may carry out paragraph (1)—

(A) directly, through the use of Federal officials; or

(B) indirectly, by providing financial assistance to an Indian tribe or tribal energy development organization to secure independent assistance.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXVI, § 2603](/us/pl/102/486/tXXVI/s2603), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title V, § 503(a)](/us/pl/109/58/tV/s503/a), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 768](/us/stat/119/768); amended [Pub. L. 115–325, title I, § 102](/us/pl/115/325/tI/s102), Dec. 18, 2018, [132 Stat. 4447](/us/stat/132/4447).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3503, [Pub. L. 102–486, title XXVI, § 2603](/us/pl/102/486/tXXVI/s2603), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3114](/us/stat/106/3114); [Pub. L. 105–388, § 10](/us/pl/105/388/s10), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3484](/us/stat/112/3484), related to promotion of energy resource development and energy vertical integration on Indian reservations, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58).

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–325, § 102(1)](/us/pl/115/325/s102/1), substituted “on the request of an Indian tribe or a tribal energy development organization, the Indian tribe or tribal energy development organization” for “on the request of an Indian tribe, the Indian tribe”.

Subsec. (c)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 115–325, § 102(2)](/us/pl/115/325/s102/2), inserted “or tribal energy development organization” after “Indian tribe”.
