---
title: "§ 14122. Records: form; inspection; preservation"
identifier: "USC-T49-S14122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section14122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 893](/us/stat/109/893); amended [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, § 32501(d)](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII/s32501/d), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 803](/us/stat/126/803).)"
---
# § 14122. Records: form; inspection; preservation

##### § 14122. Records: form; inspection; preservation

(a) Form of Records.— The Secretary or the Board, as applicable, may prescribe the form of records required to be prepared or compiled under this subchapter by carriers and brokers, including records related to movement of traffic and receipts and expenditures of money.

(b) Right of Inspection.— The Secretary or Board, or an employee designated by the Secretary or Board, may on demand and display of proper credentials, in person or in writing—

(1) inspect and examine the lands, buildings, and equipment of a carrier or broker; and

(2) inspect and copy any record of—

(A) a carrier, broker, or association; and

(B) a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with a carrier if the Secretary or Board, as applicable, considers inspection relevant to that person’s relation to, or transaction with, that carrier.

(c) Period for Preservation of Records.— The Secretary or Board, as applicable, may prescribe the time period during which operating, accounting, and financial records must be preserved by carriers and brokers.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 893](/us/stat/109/893); amended [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, § 32501(d)](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII/s32501/d), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 803](/us/stat/126/803).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 11144 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s11144) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### Amendments

2012—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) inserted “, in person or in writing” after “proper credentials”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
