---
title: "§ 1804a. Planning grants"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1804a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1804a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–471, title I, § 104](/us/pl/95/471/tI/s104), as added [Pub. L. 98–192, § 4(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/192/s4/a/2), Dec. 1, 1983, [97 Stat. 1336](/us/stat/97/1336); amended [Pub. L. 105–244, title IX, § 901(b)(6)](/us/pl/105/244/tIX/s901/b/6), (8), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1828](/us/stat/112/1828).)"
---
# § 1804a. Planning grants

##### § 1804a. Planning grants

(a) Establishment of program The Secretary shall establish a program in accordance with this section to make grants to tribes and tribal entities (1) to conduct planning activities for the purpose of developing proposals for the establishment of tribally controlled colleges or universities, or (2) to determine the need and potential for the establishment of such colleges or universities.

(b) Procedures for submission and review of applications The Secretary shall establish, by regulation, procedures for the submission and review of applications for grants under this section.

(c) Reservation of funds; number of grants From the amount appropriated to carry out this subchapter for any fiscal year (exclusive of sums appropriated for [section 1805 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1805)), the Secretary shall reserve (and expend) an amount necessary to make grants to five applicants under this section of not more than $15,000 each, or an amount necessary to make grants in that amount to each of the approved applicants, if less than five apply and are approved.

*([Pub. L. 95–471, title I, § 104](/us/pl/95/471/tI/s104), as added [Pub. L. 98–192, § 4(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/192/s4/a/2), Dec. 1, 1983, [97 Stat. 1336](/us/stat/97/1336); amended [Pub. L. 105–244, title IX, § 901(b)(6)](/us/pl/105/244/tIX/s901/b/6), (8), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1828](/us/stat/112/1828).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) substituted “controlled colleges or universities” for “controlled community colleges” in cl. (1) and “such colleges or universities” for “such colleges” in cl. (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as a note under [section 1001 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001), Education.
