---
title: "§ 31324. Retention and examination of mortgages of vessels covered by preferred mortgages"
identifier: "USC-T46-S31324"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section31324"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–710, title I, § 102(c)](/us/pl/100/710/tI/s102/c), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4744](/us/stat/102/4744).)"
---
# § 31324. Retention and examination of mortgages of vessels covered by preferred mortgages

##### § 31324. Retention and examination of mortgages of vessels covered by preferred mortgages

(a) On request, the owner, master, or individual in charge of a vessel covered by a preferred mortgage shall permit a person to examine the mortgage if the person has business with the vessel that may give rise to a maritime lien or the sale, conveyance, mortgage, or assignment of a mortgage of the vessel.

(b) A mortgagor of a preferred mortgage covering a self-propelled vessel shall use diligence in keeping a certified copy of the mortgage on the vessel.

*([Pub. L. 100–710, title I, § 102(c)](/us/pl/100/710/tI/s102/c), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4744](/us/stat/102/4744).)*

Section 31324(a) provides for examination of mortgages of a vessel that is covered by a preferred mortgage by persons that have business with the vessel that may give rise to a maritime lien or the sale, conveyance, mortgage, or assignment of the mortgage. This subsection makes no substantive change to law.

Section 31324(b) requires that a certified copy of the mortgage must be on board a self-propelled vessel. This subsection makes no substantive change to law.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 31324 | 46:923 |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1989, with certain exceptions and qualifications, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 100–710](/us/pl/100/710/s107), set out as a note under [section 31301 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31301).
