---
title: "§ 18362. Retirement of Space Shuttle orbiters and transition of Space Shuttle program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18362"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18362"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–267, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/111/267/tVI/s602), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2828](/us/stat/124/2828).)"
---
# § 18362. Retirement of Space Shuttle orbiters and transition of Space Shuttle program

##### § 18362. Retirement of Space Shuttle orbiters and transition of Space Shuttle program

(a) In general The Administrator shall retire the Space Shuttle orbiters pursuant to a schedule established by the Administrator and in a manner consistent with provisions of this chapter regarding potential requirements for contingency utilization of Space Shuttle orbiters for ISS requirements.

(b) Utilization of workforce and assets in follow-on Space Launch System

(1) Utilization of vehicle assets In carrying out subsection (a), the Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable, utilize workforce, assets, and infrastructure of the Space Shuttle program in efforts relating to the initiation of a follow-on Space Launch System developed pursuant to [section 18322 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18322).

(2) Other assets With respect to the workforce, assets, and infrastructure not utilized as described in paragraph (1), the Administrator shall work closely with other departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and the private sector, to divest unneeded assets and to assist displaced workers with retraining and other placement efforts. Amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 101(2)(B) 11 See References in Text note below. shall be available for activities pursuant to this paragraph.

*([Pub. L. 111–267, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/111/267/tVI/s602), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2828](/us/stat/124/2828).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 101(2)(B), referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 111–267, title I, § 101(2)(B)](/us/pl/111/267/tI/s101/2/B), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2809](/us/stat/124/2809), which is not classified to the Code.
