---
title: "§ 15503. Approval of applications for assistance"
identifier: "USC-T40-S15503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section15503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1476](/us/stat/122/1476), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2238.)"
---
# § 15503. Approval of applications for assistance

##### § 15503. Approval of applications for assistance

(a) Evaluation by State Member.— An application to a Commission for a grant or any other assistance for a project under this subtitle shall be made through, and evaluated for approval by, the State member of the Commission representing the applicant.

(b) Certification.— An application to a Commission for a grant or other assistance for a project under this subtitle shall be eligible for assistance only on certification by the State member of the Commission representing the applicant that the application for the project—

(1) describes ways in which the project complies with any applicable State economic and infrastructure development plan;

(2) meets applicable criteria under section 15504;

(3) adequately ensures that the project will be properly administered, operated, and maintained; and

(4) otherwise meets the requirements for assistance under this subtitle.

(c) Votes for Decisions.— On certification by a State member of a Commission of an application for a grant or other assistance for a specific project under this section, an affirmative vote of the Commission under section 15302 shall be required for approval of the application.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1476](/us/stat/122/1476), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2238.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after June 18, 2008, see [section 14217(d) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s14217/d), set out as a note under [section 15101 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s15101).
