---
title: "§ 1087–58. Work colleges"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1087–58"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1087–58"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, § 448](/us/pl/89/329/tIV/s448), as added [Pub. L. 102–325, title IV, § 447](/us/pl/102/325/tIV/s447), July 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 567](/us/stat/106/567); amended [Pub. L. 105–244, title IV, § 445](/us/pl/105/244/tIV/s445), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1714](/us/stat/112/1714); [Pub. L. 110–315, title IV, § 447](/us/pl/110/315/tIV/s447), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3260](/us/stat/122/3260).)"
---
# § 1087–58. Work colleges

##### § 1087–58. Work colleges

(a) Purpose The purpose of this section is to recognize, encourage, and promote the use of comprehensive work-learning-service programs as a valuable educational approach when it is an integral part of the institution’s educational program and a part of a financial plan which decreases reliance on grants and loans.

(b) Source and use of funds

(1) Source of funds In addition to the sums appropriated under subsection (f) of this section, funds allocated to the institution under this part and part E of this subchapter may be transferred for use under this section to provide flexibility in strengthening the self-help-through-work element in financial aid packaging.

(2) Activities authorized From the sums appropriated pursuant to subsection (f) of this section, and from the funds available under paragraph (1), eligible institutions may, following approval of an application under subsection (c) of this section by the Secretary—

(A) support the educational costs of qualified students through self-help payments or credits provided under the work-learning-service program of the institution within the limits of part F of this subchapter;

(B) promote the work-learning-service experience as a tool of postsecondary education, financial self-help and community service-learning opportunities;

(C) carry out activities described in section 1087–53 or 1087–56 of this title;

(D) be used for the administration, development and assessment of comprehensive work-learning-service programs, including—

(i) community-based work-learning-service alternatives that expand opportunities for community service and career-related work; and

(ii) alternatives that develop sound citizenship, encourage student persistence, and make optimum use of assistance under this part in education and student development;

(E) coordinate and carry out joint projects and activities to promote work service learning; and

(F) carry out a comprehensive, longitudinal study of student academic progress and academic and career outcomes, relative to student self-sufficiency in financing their higher education, repayment of student loans, continued community service, kind and quality of service performed, and career choice and community service selected after graduation.

(c) Application Each eligible institution may submit an application for funds authorized by subsection (f) of this section to use funds under subsection (b)(1) of this section at such time and in such manner as the Secretary, by regulation, may reasonably require.

(d) Match required Funds made available to work-colleges pursuant to this section shall be matched on a dollar-for-dollar basis from non-Federal sources.

(e) Definitions For the purpose of this section—

(1) the term “work college” means an eligible institution that—

(A) has been a public or private nonprofit, four-year, degree-granting institution with a commitment to community service;

(B) has operated a comprehensive work-learning-service program for at least two years;

(C) requires students, including at least one-half of all students who are enrolled on a full-time basis, to participate in a comprehensive work-learning-service program for at least five hours each week, or at least 80 hours during each period of enrollment, except summer school, unless the student is engaged in an institutionally organized or approved study abroad or externship program; and

(D) provides students participating in the comprehensive work-learning-service program with the opportunity to contribute to their education and to the welfare of the community as a whole; and

(2) the term “comprehensive student work-learning-service program” means a student work-learning-service program that—

(A) is an integral and stated part of the institution’s educational philosophy and program;

(B) requires participation of all resident students for enrollment and graduation;

(C) includes learning objectives, evaluation, and a record of work performance as part of the student’s college record;

(D) provides programmatic leadership by college personnel at levels comparable to traditional academic programs;

(E) recognizes the educational role of work-learning-service supervisors; and

(F) includes consequences for nonperformance or failure in the work-learning-service program similar to the consequences for failure in the regular academic program.

(f) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2009 and each of the five succeeding fiscal years.

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, § 448](/us/pl/89/329/tIV/s448), as added [Pub. L. 102–325, title IV, § 447](/us/pl/102/325/tIV/s447), July 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 567](/us/stat/106/567); amended [Pub. L. 105–244, title IV, § 445](/us/pl/105/244/tIV/s445), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1714](/us/stat/112/1714); [Pub. L. 110–315, title IV, § 447](/us/pl/110/315/tIV/s447), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3260](/us/stat/122/3260).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 2756b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2756b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to transfer to this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 448 of Pub. L. 89–329](/us/pl/89/329/s448), title IV, as added [Pub. L. 96–374, title IV, § 437](/us/pl/96/374/tIV/s437), Oct. 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 1436](/us/stat/94/1436), which related to work study programs for community service-learning, was omitted in the general revision of this part by [Pub. L. 99–498, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/99/498/tIV/s403/a), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1429](/us/stat/100/1429). See [section 1087–57 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1087–57).

#### Amendments

2008—Subsecs. (a), (b)(2)(A), (D). [Pub. L. 110–315, § 447(1)](/us/pl/110/315/s447/1), substituted “work-learning-service” for “work-learning” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 110–315, § 447(2)](/us/pl/110/315/s447/2), added subsec. (e) and struck out former subsec. (e) which defined “work-college” and “comprehensive student work-learning program”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 110–315, § 447(3)](/us/pl/110/315/s447/3), substituted “such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2009 and each of the five succeeding fiscal years” for “$5,000,000 for fiscal year 1999 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 4 succeeding fiscal years”.

1998—Subsec. (b)(2)(E), (F). [Pub. L. 105–244, § 445(1)](/us/pl/105/244/s445/1), added subpars. (E) and (F).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 105–244, § 445(2)](/us/pl/105/244/s445/2), substituted “1999” for “1993”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as a note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1992, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 102–325](/us/pl/102/325/s2), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).
