---
title: "§ 257. Market entry barriers proceeding"
identifier: "USC-T47-S257"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section257"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 257, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 77](/us/stat/110/77); amended [Pub. L. 115–141, div. P, title IV, § 402(f)](/us/pl/115/141/dP/tIV/s402/f), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/132/1089).)"
---
# § 257. Market entry barriers proceeding

##### § 257. Market entry barriers proceeding

(a) Elimination of barriers Within 15 months after February 8, 1996, the Commission shall complete a proceeding for the purpose of identifying and eliminating, by regulations pursuant to its authority under this chapter (other than this section), market entry barriers for entrepreneurs and other small businesses in the provision and ownership of telecommunications services and information services, or in the provision of parts or services to providers of telecommunications services and information services.

(b) National policy In carrying out subsection (a), the Commission shall seek to promote the policies and purposes of this chapter favoring diversity of media voices, vigorous economic competition, technological advancement, and promotion of the public interest, convenience, and necessity.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 257, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 77](/us/stat/110/77); amended [Pub. L. 115–141, div. P, title IV, § 402(f)](/us/pl/115/141/dP/tIV/s402/f), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/132/1089).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–141](/us/pl/115/141) struck out subsec. (c). Text read as follows: “Every 3 years following the completion of the proceeding required by subsection (a), the Commission shall review and report to Congress on—

“(1) any regulations prescribed to eliminate barriers within its jurisdiction that are identified under subsection (a) and that can be prescribed consistent with the public interest, convenience, and necessity; and

“(2) the statutory barriers identified under subsection (a) that the Commission recommends be eliminated, consistent with the public interest, convenience, and necessity.”
