---
title: "§ 47139. Emission credits for air quality projects"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47139"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47139"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–176, title I, § 158(a)](/us/pl/108/176/tI/s158/a), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2508](/us/stat/117/2508); amended [Pub. L. 112–95, title I](/us/pl/112/95/tI), §§ 111(c)(2)(A)(v), 152(d), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 18](/us/stat/126/18), 34; [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 166(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s166/b/2), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3226](/us/stat/132/3226); [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 782](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s782), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1302](/us/stat/138/1302).)"
---
# § 47139. Emission credits for air quality projects

##### § 47139. Emission credits for air quality projects

(a) In General.— The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall issue guidance on how to ensure that airport sponsors may receive appropriate emission reduction credits for carrying out projects, including projects described in sections 40117(a)(3)(G), 47102(3)(K), and 47102(3)(L). Such guidance shall include, at a minimum, the following considerations:

(1) The provision of credits is consistent with the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C. 7402](/us/usc/t42/s7402) et seq.).

(2) Credits generated by the emissions reductions are kept by the airport sponsor, including for an airport outside of a nonattainment area or maintenance area, and may be used for purposes of any current or future general conformity determination under the Clean Air Act, as offsets under the Environmental Protection Agency’s new source review program for projects on the airport or associated with the airport, or as part of a State implementation plan.

(3) Credits are calculated and provided to airports on a consistent basis nationwide.

(4) Credits are provided to airport sponsors in a timely manner.

(5) The establishment of a method to assure the Secretary that, for any specific airport project for which funding is being requested, the appropriate credits will be granted.

(b) State Authority Under CAA.— Nothing in this section shall be construed as overriding existing State law or regulation pursuant to section 116 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C. 7416](/us/usc/t42/s7416)).

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–176, title I, § 158(a)](/us/pl/108/176/tI/s158/a), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2508](/us/stat/117/2508); amended [Pub. L. 112–95, title I](/us/pl/112/95/tI), §§ 111(c)(2)(A)(v), 152(d), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 18](/us/stat/126/18), 34; [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 166(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s166/b/2), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3226](/us/stat/132/3226); [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 782](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s782), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1302](/us/stat/138/1302).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Clean Air Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), (2), is [act July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), [69 Stat. 322](/us/stat/69/322), which is classified generally to chapter 85 (§ 7401 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7401 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7401) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 782(1)(A)](/us/pl/118/63/s782/1/A), substituted “airport sponsors may receive” for “airport sponsors receive”, “carrying out projects, including projects” for “carrying out projects”, and “considerations” for “conditions” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 782(1)(B)](/us/pl/118/63/s782/1/B), substituted “airport sponsor, including for an airport outside of a nonattainment area or maintenance area,” for “airport sponsor”, “, as offsets” for “or as offsets”, and “, or as part of a State implementation plan.” for period at end and struck out “only” after “may”.

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 782(2)](/us/pl/118/63/s782/2), (3), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (b) read as follows: “As a condition for making a grant for a project described in section 47102(3)(K), 47102(3)(L), or 47140 or as a condition for granting approval to collect or use a passenger facility charge for a project described in section 40117(a)(3)(G), 47102(3)(K), 47102(3)(L), or 47140, the Secretary must receive assurance from the State in which the project is located, or from the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency where there is a Federal implementation plan, that the airport sponsor will receive appropriate emission credits in accordance with the conditions of this section.”

2018—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (c) read as follows: “The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary, shall determine how to provide appropriate emissions credits to airport projects previously approved under section 47136 consistent with the guidance and conditions specified in subsection (a).”

2012—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 112–95, § 152(d)(1)](/us/pl/112/95/s152/d/1), struck out “47102(3)(F),” after “40117(a)(3)(G),” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–95, § 152(d)(2)](/us/pl/112/95/s152/d/2), struck out “47102(3)(F),” after “grant for a project described in section” and “47103(3)(F),” after “40117(a)(3)(G),”.

[Pub. L. 112–95, § 111(c)(2)(A)(v)](/us/pl/112/95/s111/c/2/A/v), substituted “charge” for “fee”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
