---
title: "§ 2277. Disclosure of National Security Space Launch program contract pricing terms"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2277"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2277"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVI, § 1601(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVI/s1601/a/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2073](/us/stat/135/2073).)"
---
# § 2277. Disclosure of National Security Space Launch program contract pricing terms

##### § 2277. Disclosure of National Security Space Launch program contract pricing terms

(a) In General.— With respect to any contract awarded by the Secretary of the Air Force for the launch of a national security payload under the National Security Space Launch program, not later than 30 days after entering into such a contract, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a description of the pricing terms of the contract. For those contracts that include the launch of assets of the National Reconnaissance Office, the Secretary shall also submit the pricing terms to the congressional intelligence committees (as defined by section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 ([50 U.S.C. 3003](/us/usc/t50/s3003))).

(b) Competitively Sensitive Trade Secret Data.— The congressional defense committees and the congressional intelligence committees shall—

(1) treat a description of pricing terms submitted under subsection (a) as competitively sensitive trade secret data; and

(2) use the description solely for committee purposes, subject to appropriate restrictions to maintain the confidentiality of the description.

(c) Rule of Construction.— For purposes of [section 1905 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1905), a disclosure of contract pricing terms under subsection (a) shall be construed as a disclosure authorized by law.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVI, § 1601(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVI/s1601/a/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2073](/us/stat/135/2073).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2277, added [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title IX, § 913(c)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tIX/s913/c/1), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1875](/us/stat/126/1875), related to report on foreign counter-space programs, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1051(a)(13)(A)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1051/a/13/A), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1561](/us/stat/131/1561).

Another prior section 2277, [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 127](/us/stat/70A/127), related to availability of appropriations, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, § 821(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tVIII/s821/a/1), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1704](/us/stat/107/1704).
