---
title: "§ 220. Enforcement of section 219"
identifier: "USC-T50-S220"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section220"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 5316.)"
---
# § 220. Enforcement of section 219

##### § 220. Enforcement of section 219

It shall be unlawful to take any vessel or cargo detained under [section 219 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s219) from the custody of the proper officers of the customs, unless by process of some court of the United States; and in case of any attempt otherwise to take such vessel or cargo by any force, or combination, or assemblage of persons, too great to be overcome by the officers of the customs, the President, or such person as he shall have empowered for that purpose, may employ such part of the Army or Navy or militia of the United States, or such force of citizen volunteers as may be necessary, to prevent the removal of such vessel or cargo, and to protect the officers of the customs in retaining the custody thereof.

*(R.S. § 5316.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 5316 derived from [act July 12, 1861, ch. 3, § 3](/us/act/1861-07-12/ch3/s3), [12 Stat. 256](/us/stat/12/256).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

All offices of collector of customs, comptroller of customs, surveyor of customs, and appraiser of merchandise of Bureau of Customs of Department of the Treasury to which appointments were required to be made by President with advice and consent of Senate ordered abolished, with such offices to be terminated not later than Dec. 31, 1966, by Reorg. Plan No. 1, of 1965, eff. May 25, 1965, 30 F.R. 7035, [79 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/79/1317), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. All functions of offices eliminated were already vested in Secretary of the Treasury by Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, [64 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/64/1280), set out in the Appendix to Title 5.
