---
title: "§ 3699A. Provision of certain information to educational institutions"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3699A"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3699A"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–48, title III, § 308(a)](/us/pl/115/48/tIII/s308/a), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 994](/us/stat/131/994).)"
---
# § 3699A. Provision of certain information to educational institutions

##### § 3699A. Provision of certain information to educational institutions

(a) In General.— For each veteran or other individual pursuing a course of education that has been approved under this chapter using educational assistance to which the veteran or other individual is entitled under chapter 30, 32, 33, or 35 of this title, the Secretary shall make available to the educational institution offering the course information about the amount of such educational assistance to which the veteran or other individual is entitled. Such information shall be provided to such educational institution through a secure information technology system accessible by the educational institution and shall be regularly updated to reflect any amounts used by the veteran or other individual.

(b) Election.— A veteran or other individual pursuing a course of education described in subsection (a) may elect not to provide the information described in such subsection to an educational institution in a manner prescribed by the Secretary.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–48, title III, § 308(a)](/us/pl/115/48/tIII/s308/a), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 994](/us/stat/131/994).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 115–48, title III, § 308(c)](/us/pl/115/48/tIII/s308/c), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 994](/us/stat/131/994), provided that: “[Section 3699A of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s3699A), United States Code, as added by this section, shall take effect on August 1, 2018.”
