---
title: "§ 951. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S951"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section951"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 907, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch907/s2), [64 Stat. 777](/us/stat/64/777); [Pub. L. 87–814, § 1](/us/pl/87/814/s1), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 923](/us/stat/76/923); [Pub. L. 114–81, title II, § 203](/us/pl/114/81/tII/s203), Nov. 5, 2015, [129 Stat. 660](/us/stat/129/660).)"
---
# § 951. Definitions

##### § 951. Definitions

(1) Antigua Convention The term “Antigua Convention” means the Convention for the Strengthening of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission Established by the 1949 Convention Between the United States of America and the Republic of Costa Rica, signed at Washington, November 14, 2003.

(2) Commission The term “Commission” means the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission provided for by the Convention.

(3) Convention The term “Convention” means—

(A) the Convention for the Establishment of an Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission, signed at Washington, May 31, 1949, by the United States of America and the Republic of Costa Rica;

(B) the Antigua Convention, upon its entry into force for the United States, and any amendments thereto that are in force for the United States; or

(C) both such Conventions, as the context requires.

(4) Person The term “person” means an individual, partnership, corporation, or association subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(5) United States The term “United States” includes all areas under the sovereignty of the United States.

(6) United States Commissioners The term “United States commissioners” 11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. means the individuals appointed in accordance with [section 952(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s952/a).

*([Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 907, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch907/s2), [64 Stat. 777](/us/stat/64/777); [Pub. L. 87–814, § 1](/us/pl/87/814/s1), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 923](/us/stat/76/923); [Pub. L. 114–81, title II, § 203](/us/pl/114/81/tII/s203), Nov. 5, 2015, [129 Stat. 660](/us/stat/129/660).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—[Pub. L. 114–81](/us/pl/114/81) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section defined terms for this chapter.

1962—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 87–814](/us/pl/87/814) substituted definition of “United States” for definition of “enforcement agency”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Act Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 907, § 14](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch907/s14), [64 Stat. 780](/us/stat/64/780), provided: “This Act [this chapter] shall take effect with respect to each of the conventions upon the entry into force of that convention, unless such entry into force shall be prior to the date of approval of this Act [Sept. 7, 1950] in which case this Act [this chapter] shall take effect immediately.” The Costa Rican convention was ratified on March 3, 1950, and the Mexican convention on July 11, 1950. Therefore, the act took effect upon its approval on Sept. 7, 1950.

#### Short Title of 2015 Amendment

[Pub. L. 114–81, title II, § 201](/us/pl/114/81/tII/s201), Nov. 5, 2015, [129 Stat. 660](/us/stat/129/660), provided that: “This title [amending sections 951 to 953, 955, 957, 959, and 962 of this title and repealing chapter 16B of this title and provisions set out as a note under [section 972 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s972)] may be cited as the ‘Antigua Convention Implementing Act of 2015’.”

#### Short Title

[Act Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 907, § 1](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch907/s1), [64 Stat. 777](/us/stat/64/777), provided: “That this Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Tuna Conventions Act of 1950’.”

#### Separability

[Act Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 907, § 13](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch907/s13), [64 Stat. 780](/us/stat/64/780), provided: “If any provision of this Act [this chapter] or the application of such provision to any circumstances or persons shall be held invalid, the validity of the remainder of the Act and the applicability of such provision to other circumstances or persons shall not be affected thereby.”

#### Landing of Catch of Fish by Foreign Vessels

[Pub. L. 87–814, § 6](/us/pl/87/814/s6), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 926](/us/stat/76/926), provided that: “Nothing in this Act [amending this section and sections 955 to 957, 959 of this title] shall be construed to amend or repeal the provisions of section 4311 of the Revised Statutes, as amended ([former] 46 U.S.C. [App.] 251) [see [46 U.S.C. 55114](/us/usc/t46/s55114)].”
