---
title: "§ 4142. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T12-S4142"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section4142"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–242, title II, § 252](/us/pl/100/242/tII/s252), as added [Pub. L. 102–550, title III, § 312](/us/pl/102/550/tIII/s312), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3766](/us/stat/106/3766).)"
---
# § 4142. Purposes

##### § 4142. Purposes

(1) to promote the ability of residents of eligible low-income housing to meaningfully participate in the preservation process established by this title 11 See References in Text note below. and affect decisions about the future of their housing;

(2) to promote the ability of community-based nonprofit housing developers and resident councils to acquire, rehabilitate, and competently own and manage eligible housing as rental or cooperative housing for low- and moderate-income people; and

(3) to assist the Secretary in discharging the obligation under [section 4110 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s4110) to notify potential qualified purchasers of the availability of properties for sale and to otherwise facilitate the coordination and oversight of the preservation program established under this title.^1

*([Pub. L. 100–242, title II, § 252](/us/pl/100/242/tII/s252), as added [Pub. L. 102–550, title III, § 312](/us/pl/102/550/tIII/s312), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3766](/us/stat/106/3766).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in pars. (1) and (3), means title II of [Pub. L. 100–242](/us/pl/100/242), as amended by [Pub. L. 101–625, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/101/625/tVI/s601/a), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4249](/us/stat/104/4249), known as the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s4101) and Tables.
