---
title: "§ 28501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S28501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section28501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tIV/s401/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4955](/us/stat/122/4955); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. C, § 30001(b)(4)](/us/pl/117/58/dC/s30001/b/4), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 890](/us/stat/135/890).)"
---
# § 28501. Definitions

##### § 28501. Definitions

(1) the term “Board” means the Surface Transportation Board;

(2) the term “capital work” means maintenance, restoration, reconstruction, capacity enhancement, or rehabilitation work on trackage that would be treated, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as a capital item rather than an expense;

(3) the term “commuter rail passenger transportation” has the meaning given that term in section 24102;

(4) the term “public transportation authority” means a local governmental authority (as defined in section 5302) established to provide, or make a contract providing for, commuter rail passenger transportation;

(5) the term “rail carrier” means a person, other than a governmental authority, providing common carrier railroad transportation for compensation subject to the jurisdiction of the Board under chapter 105;

(6) the term “segregated fixed guideway facility” means a fixed guideway facility constructed within the railroad right-of-way of a rail carrier but physically separate from trackage, including relocated trackage, within the right-of-way used by a rail carrier for freight transportation purposes; and

(7) the term “trackage” means a railroad line of a rail carrier, including a spur, industrial, team, switching, side, yard, or station track, and a facility of a rail carrier.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tIV/s401/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4955](/us/stat/122/4955); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. C, § 30001(b)(4)](/us/pl/117/58/dC/s30001/b/4), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 890](/us/stat/135/890).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Par. (4). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) substituted “section 5302” for “section 5302(a)(6)”.
