---
title: "§ 1105. Extended unemployment compensation account"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title IX, § 905, as added [Pub. L. 91–373, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/91/373/tIII/s305/a), Aug. 10, 1970, [84 Stat. 716](/us/stat/84/716); amended [Pub. L. 92–329, § 2(c)](/us/pl/92/329/s2/c), June 30, 1972, [86 Stat. 398](/us/stat/86/398); [Pub. L. 94–566, title II, § 211(e)(2) [(c)(2)]](/us/pl/94/566/tII/s211/e/2/s2), Oct. 20, 1976, [90 Stat. 2677](/us/stat/90/2677); [Pub. L. 97–248, title II](/us/pl/97/248/tII), §§ 271(b)(2)(B), 275, Sept."
---
# § 1105. Extended unemployment compensation account

##### § 1105. Extended unemployment compensation account

(a) Establishment There is hereby established in the Unemployment Trust Fund an extended unemployment compensation account. For the purposes provided for in [section 1104(e) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1104/e), such account shall be maintained as a separate book account.

(b) Transfers to account

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer (as of the close of each month) from the employment security administration account to the extended unemployment compensation account established by subsection (a), an amount (determined by such Secretary) equal to 20 percent of the amount by which—

If for any such month the payments referred to in subparagraph (B) exceed the transfers referred to in subparagraph (A), proper adjustments shall be made in the amounts subsequently transferred.

(A) the transfers to the employment security administration account pursuant to [section 1101(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101/b/2) during such month, exceed

(B) the payments during such month from the employment security administration account pursuant to section 1101(b)(3) and (d) of this title.

(2) Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury determines pursuant to [section 1101(f) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101/f) that there is an excess in the employment security administration account as of the close of any fiscal year beginning after June 30, 1972, there shall be transferred (as of the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year) to the extended unemployment compensation account the total amount of such excess or so much thereof as is required to increase the amount in the extended unemployment compensation account to whichever of the following is the greater:

(A) $750,000,000, or

(B) the amount (determined by the Secretary of Labor and certified by him to the Secretary of the Treasury) equal to 0.5 percent of the total wages subject (determined without any limitation on amount) to contributions under all State unemployment compensation laws for the calendar year ending during the fiscal year for which the excess is determined.

(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall make no transfer pursuant to paragraph (1) as of the close of any month if he determines that the amount in the extended unemployment compensation account is equal to (or in excess of) the limitation provided in paragraph (2).

(c) Transfers to State accounts Amounts in the extended unemployment compensation account shall be available for transfer to the accounts of the States in the Unemployment Trust Fund as provided in section 204(e) of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970.

(d) Advances to account; repayment There are hereby authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, to the extended unemployment compensation account, as repayable advances, such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970. Amounts appropriated as repayable advances shall be repaid by transfers from the extended unemployment compensation account to the general fund of the Treasury, at such times as the amount in the extended unemployment compensation account is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, to be adequate for such purpose. Repayments under the preceding sentence shall be made whenever the Secretary of the Treasury (after consultation with the Secretary of Labor) determines that the amount then in the account exceeds the amount necessary to meet the anticipated payments from the account during the next 3 months. Any amount transferred as a repayment under this subsection shall be credited against, and shall operate to reduce, any balance of advances repayable under this subsection. Amounts appropriated as repayable advances for purposes of this subsection shall bear interest at a rate equal to the average rate of interest, computed as of the end of the calendar month next preceding the date of such advance, borne by all interest bearing obligations of the United States then forming part of the public debt; except that in cases in which such average rate is not a multiple of one-eighth of 1 percent, the rate of interest shall be the multiple of one-eighth of 1 percent next lower than such average rate.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title IX, § 905, as added [Pub. L. 91–373, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/91/373/tIII/s305/a), Aug. 10, 1970, [84 Stat. 716](/us/stat/84/716); amended [Pub. L. 92–329, § 2(c)](/us/pl/92/329/s2/c), June 30, 1972, [86 Stat. 398](/us/stat/86/398); [Pub. L. 94–566, title II, § 211(e)(2) [(c)(2)]](/us/pl/94/566/tII/s211/e/2/s2), Oct. 20, 1976, [90 Stat. 2677](/us/stat/90/2677); [Pub. L. 97–248, title II](/us/pl/97/248/tII), §§ 271(b)(2)(B), 275, Sept. 3, 1982, [96 Stat. 555](/us/stat/96/555), 558; [Pub. L. 100–203, title IX](/us/pl/100/203/tIX), §§ 9154(b)(2), (c)(1), 9155(a), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1330–326](/us/stat/101/1330-326); [Pub. L. 102–318, title V, § 531(a)](/us/pl/102/318/tV/s531/a), July 3, 1992, [106 Stat. 315](/us/stat/106/315); [Pub. L. 103–152, § 5](/us/pl/103/152/s5), Nov. 24, 1993, [107 Stat. 1518](/us/stat/107/1518).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970, referred to in subsecs. (c) and (d), is [Pub. L. 91–373, title II](/us/pl/91/373/tII), Aug. 10, 1970, [84 Stat. 708](/us/stat/84/708), which is set out as a note under [section 3304 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s3304), Internal Revenue Code. Section 204(e) of that Act is part of that note. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1105, [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title IX, § 905](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531/tIX/s905), as added [Pub. L. 87–6, § 13](/us/pl/87/6/s13), Mar. 24, 1961, [75 Stat. 14](/us/stat/75/14); amended [Pub. L. 88–31, § 2(c)](/us/pl/88/31/s2/c), May 29, 1963, [77 Stat. 51](/us/stat/77/51), related to Federal extended compensation account, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 91–373, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/91/373/tIII/s305/a), Aug. 10, 1970, [84 Stat. 716](/us/stat/84/716).

Another prior section 1105, [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title IX, § 905](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531/tIX/s905), [49 Stat. 641](/us/stat/49/641), related to administration, refunds and penalties. For further details, see Prior Law note set out preceding [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101).

#### Amendments

1993—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 103–152](/us/pl/103/152) amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer (as of the close of each month), from the employment security administration account to the extended unemployment compensation account established by subsection (a) of this section, an amount determined by him to be equal to the sum of—

“(A) 100 percent of the transfers to the employment security administration account pursuant to [section 1101(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101/b/2) during such month on account of liabilities referred to in [section 1101(b)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101/b/1/B), plus

“(B) 20 percent of the excess of the transfers to such account pursuant to [section 1101(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101/b/2) during such month on account of amounts referred to in [section 1101(b)(1)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101/b/1/A) over the payments during such month from the employment security administration account pursuant to section 1101(b)(3) and (d) of this title.

If for any such month the payments referred to in subparagraph (B) exceed the transfers referred to in subparagraph (B), proper adjustments shall be made in the amounts subsequently transferred.”

1992—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 102–318, § 531(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/318/s531/a/1), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “Except as provided by paragraph (3), the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer (as of the close of July 1970, and each month thereafter), from the employment security administration account to the extended unemployment compensation account established by subsection (a) of this section, an amount determined by him to be equal, in the case of any month before April 1972, to one-fifth, and in the case of any month after March 1972, to one-tenth, of the amount by which—

“(A) transfers to the employment security administration account pursuant to [section 1101(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101/b/2) during such month, exceed

“(B) payments during such month from the employment security administration account pursuant to section 1101(b)(3) and (d) of this title.

If for any such month the payments referred to in subparagraph (B) exceed the transfers referred to in subparagraph (A), proper adjustments shall be made in the amounts subsequently transferred.”

Subsec. (b)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 102–318, § 531(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/318/s531/a/2), substituted “0.5 percent” for “three-eighths of 1 percent”.

1987—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 100–203, § 9154(c)(1)](/us/pl/100/203/s9154/c/1), struck out at end “In the case of any month after March 1983 and before April 1 of the first calendar year to which paragraph (2) of section 3301 of the Federal Unemployment Tax Act applies, the first sentence of this paragraph shall be applied by substituting ‘40 percent’ for ‘one-tenth’.”

Subsec. (b)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 100–203, § 9154(b)(2)](/us/pl/100/203/s9154/b/2), substituted “three-eighths” for “one-eighth”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 100–203, § 9155(a)](/us/pl/100/203/s9155/a), struck out “(without interest)” after “account, as repayable advances” and “, without interest,” after “shall be repaid” and inserted sentence at end providing that amounts appropriated as repayable advances for purposes of this subsection shall bear interest.

1982—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 97–248, § 271(b)(2)(B)](/us/pl/97/248/s271/b/2/B), substituted “1983” for “1977”, inserted “1” after “April”, and substituted “40 percent” for “five-fourteenths” in provisions following subpar. (B).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 97–248, § 275](/us/pl/97/248/s275), inserted provision that repayment shall be made whenever the Secretary of the Treasury determines that the amount then in the account exceeds the amount necessary to meet the anticipated payments from the account during the next 3 months.

1976—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 94–566](/us/pl/94/566) substituted “In the case of any month after March 1977 and before April of the first calendar year to which paragraph (2) of section 3301 of the Federal Unemployment Tax Act applies, the first sentence of this paragraph shall be applied by substituting ‘five-fourteenths’ for ‘one-tenth’ ” for “In the case of any month after March 1973 and before April 1974, the first sentence of this paragraph shall be applied by substituting ‘thirteen fifty-eighths’ for ‘one-tenth’ ”.

1972—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 92–329](/us/pl/92/329) inserted provisions for transfers in the case of any month after March 1973 and before April 1974.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [section 531(a) of Pub. L. 102–318](/us/pl/102/318/s531/a) effective July 3, 1992, except that amendment by [section 531(a)(2) of Pub. L. 102–318](/us/pl/102/318/s531/a/2) applicable to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 1993, see [section 531(e) of Pub. L. 102–318](/us/pl/102/318/s531/e), set out as a note under [section 1102 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1102).

#### Effective Date of 1987 Amendment

Amendment by [section 9155(a) of Pub. L. 100–203](/us/pl/100/203/s9155/a) applicable to advances made on or after Dec. 22, 1987, see [section 9155(d) of Pub. L. 100–203](/us/pl/100/203/s9155/d), set out as a note under [section 1103 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1103).

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [section 271(b)(2)(B) of Pub. L. 97–248](/us/pl/97/248/s271/b/2/B) applicable to remuneration paid after Dec. 31, 1982, see [section 271(d)(1) of Pub. L. 97–248](/us/pl/97/248/s271/d/1), as amended, set out as a note under [section 3301 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s3301), Internal Revenue Code.

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–566](/us/pl/94/566) effective Oct. 20, 1976, see [section 211(d)(3) of Pub. L. 94–566](/us/pl/94/566/s211/d/3), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101).
