---
title: "§ 300mm–31. Identification and initial health evaluation of screening-eligible and certified-eligible WTC survivors"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300mm–31"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300mm–31"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3321, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3648](/us/stat/124/3648); amended [Pub. L. 114–113, div. O, title III, § 302(f)](/us/pl/114/113/dO/tIII/s302/f), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 3000](/us/stat/129/3000); [Pub. L. 116–59, div. B, title VI, § 1602(b)](/us/pl/116/59/dB/tVI/s1602/b), Sept. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/133/1107); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title VII, "
---
# § 300mm–31. Identification and initial health evaluation of screening-eligible and certified-eligible WTC survivors

##### § 300mm–31. Identification and initial health evaluation of screening-eligible and certified-eligible WTC survivors

(a) Identification of screening-eligible WTC survivors and certified-eligible WTC survivors

(1) Screening-eligible WTC survivors

(A) Definition In this subchapter, the term “screening-eligible WTC survivor” means, subject to subparagraph (C) and paragraph (3), an individual who is described in any of the following clauses:

The Administrator shall not modify such criteria under clause (iii) on or after the date that the number of certifications for certified-eligible WTC survivors under paragraph (2)(B) has reached 80 percent of the limit described in paragraph (3) or on or after the date that the number of enrollments of WTC responders has reached 80 percent of the limit described in [section 300mm–21(a)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–21/a/4).

(i) Currently identified survivor An individual, including a WTC responder, who has been identified as eligible for medical treatment and monitoring by the WTC Environmental Health Center as of January 2, 2011.

(ii) Survivor who meets current eligibility criteria An individual who is not a WTC responder, for purposes of the initial health evaluation under subsection (b), claims symptoms of a WTC-related health condition and meets any of the current eligibility criteria described in subparagraph (B).

(iii) Survivor who meets modified eligibility criteria An individual who is not a WTC responder, for purposes of the initial health evaluation under subsection (b), claims symptoms of a WTC-related health condition and meets such eligibility criteria relating to exposure to airborne toxins, other hazards, or adverse conditions resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks as the WTC Administrator determines, after consultation with the Data Centers described in [section 300mm–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–4) and the WTC Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee and WTC Health Program Steering Committees under [section 300mm–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–1).

(B) Current eligibility criteria The eligibility criteria described in this subparagraph for an individual are that the individual is described in any of the following clauses:

(i) A person who was present in the New York City disaster area in the dust or dust cloud on September 11, 2001.

(ii) A person who worked, resided, or attended school, childcare, or adult daycare in the New York City disaster area for—

(I) at least 4 days during the 4-month period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on January 10, 2002; or

(II) at least 30 days during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on July 31, 2002.

(iii) Any person who worked as a cleanup worker or performed maintenance work in the New York City disaster area during the 4-month period described in subparagraph (B)(i) and had extensive exposure to WTC dust as a result of such work.

(iv) A person who was deemed eligible to receive a grant from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation Residential Grant Program, who possessed a lease for a residence or purchased a residence in the New York City disaster area, and who resided in such residence during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on May 31, 2003.

(v) A person whose place of employment—

(I) at any time during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on May 31, 2003, was in the New York City disaster area; and

(II) was deemed eligible to receive a grant from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation WTC Small Firms Attraction and Retention Act program or other government incentive program designed to revitalize the lower Manhattan economy after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

(C) Application and determination process for screening eligibility

(i) In general The WTC Program Administrator in consultation with the Data Centers shall establish a process for individuals, other than individuals described in subparagraph (A)(i), to be determined to be screening-eligible WTC survivors. Under such process—

(I) there shall be no fee charged to the applicant for making an application for such determination;

(II) the Administrator shall make a determination on such an application not later than 60 days after the date of filing the application;

(III) the Administrator shall make such a determination relating to an applicant’s compliance with this subchapter and shall not determine that an individual is not so eligible or deny written documentation under clause (ii) to such individual unless the Administrator determines that—

(aa) based on the application submitted, the individual does not meet the eligibility criteria; or

(bb) the numerical limitation on certifications of certified-eligible WTC survivors set forth in paragraph (3) has been met; and

(IV) an individual who is determined not to be a screening-eligible WTC survivor shall have an opportunity to appeal such determination in a manner established under such process.

(ii) Written documentation of screening-eligibility

(I) In general In the case of an individual who is described in subparagraph (A)(i) or who is determined under clause (i) (consistent with paragraph (3)) to be a screening-eligible WTC survivor, the WTC Program Administrator shall provide an appropriate written documentation of such fact.

(II) Timing

(aa) Currently identified survivors In the case of an individual who is described in subparagraph (A)(i), the WTC Program Administrator shall provide the written documentation under subclause (I) not later than July 1, 2011.

(bb) Other members In the case of another individual who is determined under clause (i) and consistent with paragraph (3) to be a screening-eligible WTC survivor, the WTC Program Administrator shall provide the written documentation under subclause (I) at the time of such determination.

(2) Certified-eligible WTC survivors

(A) Definition The term “certified-eligible WTC survivor” means, subject to paragraph (3), a screening-eligible WTC survivor who the WTC Program Administrator certifies under subparagraph (B) to be eligible for followup monitoring and treatment under this subpart.

(B) Certification of eligibility for monitoring and treatment

(i) In general The WTC Program Administrator shall establish a certification process under which the Administrator shall provide appropriate certification to screening-eligible WTC survivors who, pursuant to the initial health evaluation under subsection (b), are determined to be eligible for followup monitoring and treatment under this subpart.

(ii) Timing

(I) Currently identified survivors In the case of an individual who is described in paragraph (1)(A)(i), the WTC Program Administrator shall provide the certification under clause (i) not later than July 1, 2011.

(II) Other members In the case of another individual who is determined under clause (i) to be eligible for followup monitoring and treatment, the WTC Program Administrator shall provide the certification under such clause at the time of such determination.

(3) Numerical limitation on certified-eligible WTC survivors

(A) In general The total number of individuals not described in paragraph (1)(A)(i) who may be certified as certified-eligible WTC survivors under paragraph (2)(B) shall not exceed 75,000 at any time.

(B) Process In implementing subparagraph (A), the WTC Program Administrator shall—

(i) limit the number of certifications provided under paragraph (2)(B)—

(I) in accordance with such subparagraph; and

(II) to such number, as determined by the Administrator based on the best available information and subject to amounts made available under this subchapter, that will ensure sufficient funds will be available to provide treatment and monitoring benefits under this subchapter, with respect to all individuals receiving such certifications; and

(ii) provide priority in such certifications in the order in which individuals apply for a determination under paragraph (2)(B).

(4) Disqualification of individuals on terrorist watch list No individual who is on the terrorist watch list maintained by the Department of Homeland Security shall qualify as a screening-eligible WTC survivor or a certified-eligible WTC survivor. Before determining any individual to be a screening-eligible WTC survivor under paragraph (1) or certifying any individual as a certified eligible 11 So in original. Probably should be “certified-eligible”. WTC survivor under paragraph (2), the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall determine whether the individual is on such list.

(b) Initial health evaluation to determine eligibility for followup monitoring or treatment

(1) In general In the case of a screening-eligible WTC survivor, the WTC Program shall provide for an initial health evaluation to determine if the survivor has a WTC-related health condition and is eligible for followup monitoring and treatment benefits under the WTC Program. Initial health evaluation protocols under [section 300mm–4(a)(2)(A)(ii) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–4/a/2/A/ii) shall be subject to approval by the WTC Program Administrator.

(2) Initial health evaluation providers The initial health evaluation described in paragraph (1) shall be provided through a Clinical Center of Excellence with respect to the individual involved.

(3) Limitation on initial health evaluation benefits Benefits for an initial health evaluation under this subpart for a screening-eligible WTC survivor shall consist only of a single medical initial health evaluation consistent with initial health evaluation protocols described in paragraph (1). Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as preventing such an individual from seeking additional medical initial health evaluations at the expense of the individual.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3321, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3648](/us/stat/124/3648); amended [Pub. L. 114–113, div. O, title III, § 302(f)](/us/pl/114/113/dO/tIII/s302/f), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 3000](/us/stat/129/3000); [Pub. L. 116–59, div. B, title VI, § 1602(b)](/us/pl/116/59/dB/tVI/s1602/b), Sept. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/133/1107); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title VII, § 7701(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tVII/s7701/b/2), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5965](/us/stat/136/5965); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVIII, § 1851(c)(2)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVIII/s1851/c/2), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 708](/us/stat/137/708).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (a)(3)(B)(i)(II). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) substituted “this subchapter” for “sections 300mm–61 and 300mm–62 of this title”.

2022—Subsec. (a)(3)(B)(i)(II). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) substituted “sections 300mm–61 and 300mm–62 of this title” for “[section 300mm–61 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–61)”.

2019—Subsec. (a)(3)(A). [Pub. L. 116–59](/us/pl/116/59) substituted “75,000” for “25,000”.

2015—Subsec. (a)(3)(B)(i)(II). [Pub. L. 114–113](/us/pl/114/113) struck out “through the end of fiscal year 2020” after “certifications”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction

Nothing in amendment made by [Pub. L. 116–59](/us/pl/116/59) to alter the annual limitations on amounts appropriated to the World Trade Center Health Program Fund under [section 300mm–61(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–61/a/2), see [section 1602(c) of Pub. L. 116–59](/us/pl/116/59/s1602/c), set out as a note under [section 300mm–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–21).
