---
title: "§ 10383. Renewal of grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10383"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10383"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1703](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1703), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title I, § 10003(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tI/s10003/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/108/1812).)"
---
# § 10383. Renewal of grants

##### § 10383. Renewal of grants

(a) In general Except for grants made for hiring or rehiring additional career law enforcement officers, a grant under this subchapter may be renewed for up to 2 additional years after the first fiscal year during which a recipient receives its initial grant, if the Attorney General determines that the funds made available to the recipient were used in a manner required under an approved application and if the recipient can demonstrate significant progress in achieving the objectives of the initial application.

(b) Grants for hiring Grants made for hiring or rehiring additional career law enforcement officers may be renewed for up to 5 years, subject to the requirements of subsection (a), but notwithstanding the limitation in that subsection concerning the number of years for which grants may be renewed.

(c) Multiyear grants A grant for a period exceeding 1 year may be renewed as provided in this section, except that the total duration of such a grant including any renewals may not exceed 3 years, or 5 years if it is a grant made for hiring or rehiring additional career law enforcement officers.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1703](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1703), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title I, § 10003(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tI/s10003/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/108/1812).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796dd–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796dd–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
