---
title: "§ 4426. Provision of facilities"
identifier: "USC-T20-S4426"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section4426"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–498, title XV, § 1519](/us/pl/99/498/tXV/s1519), as added [Pub. L. 102–325, title XIII, § 1331(k)](/us/pl/102/325/tXIII/s1331/k), July 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 808](/us/stat/106/808).)"
---
# § 4426. Provision of facilities

##### § 4426. Provision of facilities

(a) Plan The Board shall prepare a master plan on the short- and long-term facilities needs of the Institute. The master plan shall include evaluation of all facets of existing Institute programs, including support activities and programs and facilities. The master plan shall include impact projections for the Institute’s move to a new campus site. This master plan shall evaluate development and construction requirements (based on a growth plan approved by the Board), including (but not limited to) items such as infrastructure and site analysis, development of a phased plan with architectural and engineering studies, cost projections, landscaping, and related studies which cover all facets of the Institute’s programs and planned functions.

(b) Deadline for transmittal The plan required by this subsection shall be transmitted to Congress no later than 18 months after July 23, 1992. Such plan shall include a prioritization of needs, as determined by the Board.

*([Pub. L. 99–498, title XV, § 1519](/us/pl/99/498/tXV/s1519), as added [Pub. L. 102–325, title XIII, § 1331(k)](/us/pl/102/325/tXIII/s1331/k), July 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 808](/us/stat/106/808).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1992, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 102–325](/us/pl/102/325/s2), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).
