---
title: "§ 18631. Crosscutting research and development"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18631"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18631"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–246, title II, § 203](/us/pl/115/246/tII/s203), Sept. 28, 2018, [132 Stat. 3135](/us/stat/132/3135).)"
---
# § 18631. Crosscutting research and development

##### § 18631. Crosscutting research and development

(a) In general The Secretary shall use the capabilities of the Department to identify strategic opportunities for collaborative research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of innovative science and technologies.

(b) Existing programs; coordination of activities To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall seek—

(1) to leverage existing programs of the Department; and

(2) to consolidate and coordinate activities throughout the Department to promote collaboration and crosscutting approaches within programs of the Department.

(c) Additional actions The Secretary shall—

(1) prioritize activities that use all affordable domestic resources;

(2) develop a planning, evaluation, and technical assessment framework for setting objective long-term strategic goals and evaluating progress that—

(A) ensures integrity and independence; and

(B) provides the flexibility to adapt to market dynamics;

(3) ensure that activities shall be undertaken in a manner that does not duplicate other activities within the Department or other Federal Government activities; and

(4) identify programs that may be more effectively left to the States, industry, nongovernmental organizations, institutions of higher education, or other stakeholders.

*([Pub. L. 115–246, title II, § 203](/us/pl/115/246/tII/s203), Sept. 28, 2018, [132 Stat. 3135](/us/stat/132/3135).)*
