---
title: "§ 5311. Establishment of coordinated program"
identifier: "USC-T7-S5311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section5311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–445, title I, § 101](/us/pl/101/445/tI/s101), Oct. 22, 1990, [104 Stat. 1035](/us/stat/104/1035).)"
---
# § 5311. Establishment of coordinated program

##### § 5311. Establishment of coordinated program

(a) In general There is established a ten-year coordinated program, to be known as the National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Program, to carry out the purposes of this chapter.

(b) Implementation responsibility The Secretaries shall be responsible for the implementation of the coordinated program.

(c) Establishment of Board To assist in implementing the coordinated program, there is established an Interagency Board for Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research, of which an Assistant Secretary in the Department of Agriculture (designated by the Secretary of Agriculture) and an Assistant Secretary in the Department of Health and Human Services (designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services) shall be joint chairpersons. The remaining membership of the Board shall consist of additional representatives of Federal agencies, as determined appropriate by the joint chairpersons of the Board. The Board shall meet no less often than once every three months for the two-year period following October 22, 1990, and when appropriate thereafter.

(d) Administrator To establish a central focus and coordinator for the coordinated program, the Secretaries may appoint an Administrator of Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research. The Administrator shall—

(1) be an individual who is eminent in the field of nutrition monitoring and related areas and be selected on the basis of the established record of expertise and distinguished service of such individual; and

(2) administer the coordinated program with the advice and counsel of the joint chairpersons of the Board, serve as the focal point for the coordinated program, and serve as the Executive Secretary for the National Nutrition Monitoring Advisory Council.

*([Pub. L. 101–445, title I, § 101](/us/pl/101/445/tI/s101), Oct. 22, 1990, [104 Stat. 1035](/us/stat/104/1035).)*
