---
title: "§ 290cc–31. Failure to comply with agreements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290cc–31"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290cc–31"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 531, as added [Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, § 611(3)](/us/pl/100/77/tVI/s611/3), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 521](/us/stat/101/521); amended [Pub. L. 101–645, title V, § 511](/us/pl/101/645/tV/s511), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4731](/us/stat/104/4731).)"
---
# § 290cc–31. Failure to comply with agreements

##### § 290cc–31. Failure to comply with agreements

(a) Repayment of payments

(1) The Secretary may, subject to subsection (c), require a State to repay any payments received by the State under [section 290cc–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–21) that the Secretary determines were not expended by the State in accordance with the agreements required to be contained in the application submitted by the State pursuant to [section 290cc–29 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–29).

(2) If a State fails to make a repayment required in paragraph (1), the Secretary may offset the amount of the repayment against the amount of any payment due to be paid to the State under [section 290cc–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–21).

(b) Withholding of payments

(1) The Secretary may, subject to subsection (c), withhold payments due under [section 290cc–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–21) if the Secretary determines that the State involved is not expending amounts received under such section in accordance with the agreements required to be contained in the application submitted by the State pursuant to [section 290cc–29 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–29).

(2) The Secretary shall cease withholding payments from a State under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that there are reasonable assurances that the State will expend amounts received under [section 290cc–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–21) in accordance with the agreements referred to in such paragraph.

(3) The Secretary may not withhold funds under paragraph (1) from a State for a minor failure to comply with the agreements referred to in such paragraph.

(c) Opportunity for hearing Before requiring repayment of payments under subsection (a)(1), or withholding payments under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary shall provide to the State an opportunity for a hearing.

(d) Rule of construction Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a State receiving payments under [section 290cc–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–21) may not, with respect to any agreements required to be contained in the application submitted under [section 290cc–29 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–29), be considered to be in violation of any such agreements by reason of the fact that the State, in the regular course of providing services under [section 290cc–22(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–22/b) to eligible homeless individuals, incidentally provides services to homeless individuals who are not eligible homeless individuals.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 531, as added [Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, § 611(3)](/us/pl/100/77/tVI/s611/3), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 521](/us/stat/101/521); amended [Pub. L. 101–645, title V, § 511](/us/pl/101/645/tV/s511), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4731](/us/stat/104/4731).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1990—[Pub. L. 101–645](/us/pl/101/645) amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to failure to comply with agreements for provision relating to technical assistance.
