---
title: "§ 5517. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5517"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5517"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–409, § 19](/us/pl/93/409/s19), Sept. 3, 1974, [88 Stat. 1078](/us/stat/88/1078); [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(c)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/c), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433).)"
---
# § 5517. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 5517. Authorization of appropriations

(a) Appropriations to National Aeronautics and Space Administration There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, to carry out the functions vested in the Administrator by this subchapter.

(b) Appropriations to Department of Housing and Urban Development There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended. Any sums so appropriated shall be available (1) to carry out the functions vested in the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by this subchapter, and (2) for transfer to the Department of Defense, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the General Services Administration to enable them to carry out their respective functions under this subchapter.

(c) Appropriations for programs under this subchapter There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1976, 1977, 1978, and 1979, $50,000,000 in the aggregate to carry out the programs established by this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 93–409, § 19](/us/pl/93/409/s19), Sept. 3, 1974, [88 Stat. 1078](/us/stat/88/1078); [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(c)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/c), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) substituted “National Institute of Standards and Technology” for “National Bureau of Standards”.
