---
title: "§ 5036. Speedy trial"
identifier: "USC-T18-S5036"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section5036"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 858](/us/stat/62/858); [Pub. L. 93–415, title V, § 506](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s506), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1136](/us/stat/88/1136).)"
---
# § 5036. Speedy trial

##### § 5036. Speedy trial

If an alleged delinquent who is in detention pending trial is not brought to trial within thirty days from the date upon which such detention was begun, the information shall be dismissed on motion of the alleged delinquent or at the direction of the court, unless the Attorney General shows that additional delay was caused by the juvenile or his counsel, or consented to by the juvenile and his counsel, or would be in the interest of justice in the particular case. Delays attributable solely to court calendar congestion may not be considered in the interest of justice. Except in extraordinary circumstances, an information dismissed under this section may not be reinstituted.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 858](/us/stat/62/858); [Pub. L. 93–415, title V, § 506](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s506), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1136](/us/stat/88/1136).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 926 ([June 16, 1938, ch. 486, § 6](/us/act/1938-06-16/ch486/s6), [52 Stat. 766](/us/stat/52/766)).

The words “foster homes” were inserted to remove any doubt as to the authority to commit to such foster homes in accordance with past and present administrative practice.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1974—[Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415) amended section generally, substituting “Speedy trial” for “Contracts for support; payment” in section catchline, and substituting provisions relating to dismissal of information due to delay, for provisions relating to contracts with public or private agencies for custody and care of juvenile delinquents.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Repeals

[Pub. L. 93–415, title V, § 506](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s506), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1136](/us/stat/88/1136), cited as a credit to this section, was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–385, title III, § 307](/us/pl/115/385/tIII/s307), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5152](/us/stat/132/5152).
