---
title: "§ 3807. Bounties for induction; substitutes; purchase of release"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3807"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3807"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 24, 1948, ch. 625](/us/act/1948-06-24/ch625), title I, § 8, [62 Stat. 614](/us/stat/62/614); [Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, § 22(d)](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041/s22/d), [70A Stat. 630](/us/stat/70A/630).)"
---
# § 3807. Bounties for induction; substitutes; purchase of release

##### § 3807. Bounties for induction; substitutes; purchase of release

No bounty may be paid to induce any person to be inducted into an armed force. A clothing allowance authorized by law is not a bounty for the purposes of this section. No person liable for training and service under this Act may furnish a substitute for that training or service. No person may be enlisted, inducted, or appointed in an armed force as a substitute for another. No person liable for training and service under [section 3803 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3803) may escape that training and service or be discharged before the end of his period of training and service by paying money or any other valuable thing as consideration for his release from that training and service or liability therefor.

*([June 24, 1948, ch. 625](/us/act/1948-06-24/ch625), title I, § 8, [62 Stat. 614](/us/stat/62/614); [Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, § 22(d)](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041/s22/d), [70A Stat. 630](/us/stat/70A/630).)*

#### Termination of Induction for Training and Service

For provisions relating to termination of induction for training and service in the Armed Forces after July 1, 1973, see [section 3815(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3815/c).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [act June 24, 1948, ch. 625](/us/act/1948-06-24/ch625), [62 Stat. 604](/us/stat/62/604), known as the Military Selective Service Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under [section 3801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3801) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 458 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section 8 of act June 24, 1948, [62 Stat. 614](/us/stat/62/614), cited as a credit to this section, was repealed by [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, § 53](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041/s53), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641), 678, and provisions thereof (as applicable to induction) were restated in this section by section 22(d) of act Aug. 10, 1956. Provisions of such section 8 (less applicability to induction) were restated by first section of act Aug. 10, 1956, as [section 514 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s514), Armed Forces.

#### Amendments

1956—Act Aug. 10, 1956, struck out provisions which prohibited payment of any bounty to induce any person to enlist into Armed Forces. See [section 514 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s514), Armed Forces.
