---
title: "§ 2304. Administrative provisions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S2304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section2304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–292, § 1](/us/pl/106/292/s1), Oct. 12, 2000, [114 Stat. 1032](/us/stat/114/1032).)"
---
# § 2304. Administrative provisions

##### § 2304. Administrative provisions

(a) Experts and Consultants.— The Museum may obtain the services of experts and consultants in accordance with the provisions of [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109), at rates not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315).

(b) Authority To Contract.— The Museum may, in accordance with applicable law, enter into contracts and other arrangements with public agencies and with private organizations and persons and may make such payments as may be necessary to carry out its functions under this chapter.

(c) Assistance From Other Federal Departments and Agencies.— The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Library of Congress, and the heads of all executive branch departments, agencies, and establishments of the United States may assist the Museum in the performance of its functions under this chapter.

(d) Administrative Services and Support.— The Secretary of the Interior may provide administrative services and support to the Museum on a reimbursable basis.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–292, § 1](/us/pl/106/292/s1), Oct. 12, 2000, [114 Stat. 1032](/us/stat/114/1032).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2304, [Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1278](/us/stat/112/1278), related to gifts, bequests, and devises of property to the Holocaust Memorial Council, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 106–292](/us/pl/106/292).
