---
title: "§ 1541. Administrative Law Judges"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1541"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1541"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–160, § 10](/us/pl/105/160/s10), Mar. 6, 1998, [112 Stat. 27](/us/stat/112/27); [Pub. L. 114–327, title I, § 122](/us/pl/114/327/tI/s122), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1985](/us/stat/130/1985).)"
---
# § 1541. Administrative Law Judges

##### § 1541. Administrative Law Judges

Notwithstanding [section 559 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s559), with respect to any marine resource conservation law or regulation administered by the Secretary of Commerce acting through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, all adjudicatory functions which are required by chapter 5 of title 5 to be performed by an Administrative Law Judge may be performed by another Federal agency on a reimbursable basis. Should another Federal agency require the detail of an Administrative Law Judge to perform any of these functions, it may request such temporary or occasional assistance from the Office of Personnel Management pursuant to [section 3344 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3344).

*([Pub. L. 105–160, § 10](/us/pl/105/160/s10), Mar. 6, 1998, [112 Stat. 27](/us/stat/112/27); [Pub. L. 114–327, title I, § 122](/us/pl/114/327/tI/s122), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1985](/us/stat/130/1985).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–327](/us/pl/114/327) substituted “another Federal agency” for “the United States Coast Guard” in two places.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
