---
title: "§ 2032. Annual report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2032"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2032"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–283, title V, § 502](/us/pl/89/283/tV/s502), Oct. 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 1025](/us/stat/79/1025).)"
---
# § 2032. Annual report to Congress

##### § 2032. Annual report to Congress

(1) the production of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts in the United States and Canada.

(2) the retail prices of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts in the United States and Canada.

(3) employment in the motor vehicle industry and motor vehicle parts industry in the United States and Canada, and

(4) United States and Canadian trade in motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts, particularly trade between the United States and Canada.

*([Pub. L. 89–283, title V, § 502](/us/pl/89/283/tV/s502), Oct. 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 1025](/us/stat/79/1025).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 89–283](/us/pl/89/283), Oct. 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 1016](/us/stat/79/1016). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2001) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 12713. Delegation of Authority for Submission of Report

Ex. Ord. No. 12713, May 1, 1990, 55 F.R. 18719, provided:

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including the Automotive Products Trade Act of 1965 ([19 U.S.C. 2001](/us/usc/t19/s2001) *et seq*.) (“Act”), and in order to provide for the submission to the Congress of the annual report required by section 502 of the Act ([19 U.S.C. 2032](/us/usc/t19/s2032)), it is hereby ordered that authority for submission of the report is delegated to the Secretary of Commerce.
