---
title: "§ 4957. Participation of younger and older persons"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4957"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4957"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–113, title I, § 107](/us/pl/93/113/tI/s107), Oct. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 399](/us/stat/87/399); [Pub. L. 103–82, title III, § 326](/us/pl/103/82/tIII/s326), Sept. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 901](/us/stat/107/901).)"
---
# § 4957. Participation of younger and older persons

##### § 4957. Participation of younger and older persons

In carrying out this part and part C, the Director shall take necessary steps, including the development of special projects, where appropriate, to encourage the fullest participation of individuals 18 through 27 years of age, and individuals 55 years of age and older, in the various programs and activities authorized under such parts.

*([Pub. L. 93–113, title I, § 107](/us/pl/93/113/tI/s107), Oct. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 399](/us/stat/87/399); [Pub. L. 103–82, title III, § 326](/us/pl/103/82/tIII/s326), Sept. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 901](/us/stat/107/901).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—[Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “In carrying out this part and part C of this subchapter, the Director shall take necessary steps, including the development of special projects, where appropriate, to encourage the fullest participation of older persons and older persons membership groups as volunteers and participant agencies in the various programs and activities authorized under such parts and, because of the high proportion of older persons within the poverty group, shall encourage the development of a variety of volunteer services to older persons, including special projects, to assure that such persons are served in proportion to their need.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1993 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82) effective Oct. 1, 1993, see [section 392 of Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82/s392), set out as a note under [section 4951 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4951).
