---
title: "§ 406d–5. Use for reclamation purposes of certain lands within exterior boundary"
identifier: "USC-T16-S406d–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section406d–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Sept. 14, 1950, ch. 950, § 9](/us/act/1950-09-14/ch950/s9), [64 Stat. 853](/us/stat/64/853).)"
---
# § 406d–5. Use for reclamation purposes of certain lands within exterior boundary

##### § 406d–5. Use for reclamation purposes of certain lands within exterior boundary

Nothing in this Act shall affect the use for reclamation purposes, in accordance with the Act of June 17, 1902 ([32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388)), and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, of the lands within the exterior boundary of the park as prescribed by this Act which have been withdrawn or acquired for reclamation purposes or the operation, maintenance, rehabilitation, and improvement of the reservoir and other reclamation facilities located on such withdrawn or acquired lands.

*([Sept. 14, 1950, ch. 950, § 9](/us/act/1950-09-14/ch950/s9), [64 Stat. 853](/us/stat/64/853).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 14, 1950, ch. 950](/us/act/1950-09-14/ch950), [64 Stat. 849](/us/stat/64/849), which enacted this section, sections 406d–1 to 406d–4, 431a, 451a, 482m, 673b, and 673c of this title, and provisions set out as notes under [section 406d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s406d–1). Section 1 of the Act was partially repealed and restated as sections 104907 and 320301(d) of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Act of June 17, 1902 ([32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388)), referred to in text, is popularly known as the “Reclamation Act” and is classified generally to chapter 12 (§ 371 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section comprises only the first sentence of section 9 of act Sept. 14, 1950. The second sentence of section 9 repealed all laws “inconsistent with” the [act Sept. 14, 1950, ch. 950](/us/act/1950-09-14/ch950), and is set out in a note under [section 406d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s406d–1). The third sentence thereof, which related to availability of unexpended appropriated funds, is also set out in a note under [section 406d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s406d–1).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Repeal of Inconsistent Laws

Repeal of laws inconsistent with act Sept. 14, 1950, see note set out under [section 406d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s406d–1).
