---
title: "§ 44906. Foreign air carrier security programs"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1208](/us/stat/108/1208); [Pub. L. 104–132, title III, § 322](/us/pl/104/132/tIII/s322), Apr. 24, 1996, [110 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/110/1254); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 101(f)(7)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s101/f/7), (9), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 603](/us/stat/115/603); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(d)(6)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/d/6), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3632](/us/stat/132/3632).)"
---
# § 44906. Foreign air carrier security programs

##### § 44906. Foreign air carrier security programs

The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall continue in effect the requirement of section 129.25 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, that a foreign air carrier must adopt and use a security program approved by the Administrator. The Administrator shall not approve a security program of a foreign air carrier under section 129.25, or any successor regulation, unless the security program requires the foreign air carrier in its operations to and from airports in the United States to adhere to the identical security measures that the Administrator requires air carriers serving the same airports to adhere to. The foregoing requirement shall not be interpreted to limit the ability of the Administrator to impose additional security measures on a foreign air carrier or an air carrier when the Administrator determines that a specific threat warrants such additional measures. The Administrator shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1208](/us/stat/108/1208); [Pub. L. 104–132, title III, § 322](/us/pl/104/132/tIII/s322), Apr. 24, 1996, [110 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/110/1254); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 101(f)(7)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s101/f/7), (9), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 603](/us/stat/115/603); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(d)(6)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/d/6), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3632](/us/stat/132/3632).)*

The text of 49 App.:1357(k)(3) and the words “Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act” in section 105(c) of the Aviation Security Improvement Act of 1990 ([Public Law 101–604](/us/pl/101/604), [104 Stat. 3075](/us/stat/104/3075)) are omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 44906(a)(1) | 49 App.:1357(k) (1)–(3). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 316(k)(1)–(3); added Nov. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101–604, § 105(a), 104 Stat. 3074. |
|  | 49 App.:1357 (note). | Nov. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101–604, § 105(c), 104 Stat. 3075. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security” and, wherever appearing, “Administrator” for “Under Secretary”.

2001—[Pub. L. 107–71](/us/pl/107/71) substituted “Under Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing and “of Transportation for Security” for “of the Federal Aviation Administration”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–132](/us/pl/104/132) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall continue in effect the requirement of section 129.25 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, that a foreign air carrier must adopt and use a security program approved by the Administrator. The Administrator may approve a security program of a foreign air carrier under section 129.25 only if the Administrator decides the security program provides passengers of the foreign air carrier a level of protection similar to the level those passengers would receive under the security programs of air carriers serving the same airport. The Administrator shall require a foreign air carrier to use procedures equivalent to those required of air carriers serving the same airport if the Administrator decides that the procedures are necessary to provide a level of protection similar to that provided passengers of the air carriers serving the same airport. The Administrator shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.”
