---
title: "§ 40116. University-based Centers for Research on Aviation Training"
identifier: "USC-T51-S40116"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section40116"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3381](/us/stat/124/3381).)"
---
# § 40116. University-based Centers for Research on Aviation Training

##### § 40116. University-based Centers for Research on Aviation Training

(a) In General.— The Administrator shall award grants to institutions of higher education (or consortia thereof) to establish one or more Centers for Research on Aviation Training under cooperative agreements with appropriate Administration Centers.

(b) Purpose.— The purpose of the Centers for Research on Aviation Training shall be to investigate the impact of new technologies and procedures, particularly those related to the aircraft flight deck and to the air traffic management functions, on training requirements for pilots and air traffic controllers.

(c) Application.— An institution of higher education (or a consortium of such institutions) seeking funding under this section shall submit an application to the Administrator at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Administrator may require, including, at a minimum, a 5-year research plan.

(d) Award Duration.— An award made by the Administrator under this section shall be for a period of 5 years and may be renewed on the basis of—

(1) satisfactory performance in meeting the goals of the research plan proposed in the application submitted under subsection (c); and

(2) other requirements as specified by the Administrator.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3381](/us/stat/124/3381).)*

In subsection (b), the words “Centers for Research on Aviation Training” are substituted for “Centers” for clarity. There are references to both “Centers for Research on Aviation Training” and “Administration Centers” in subsection (a).

In subsection (d)(1), the words “proposed in the application submitted under subsection (c)” are substituted for “proposed by the Center in its application under subsection (c)” for clarity. Under section (c), applications are filed by an institution of higher education (or a consortium of such institutions) seeking funding, and not by the Center for which such funding is sought.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40116 | 42 U.S.C. 16727. | Pub. L. 109–155, title IV, § 427, Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2926; Pub. L. 110–422, title III, § 308, Oct. 15, 2008, 122 Stat. 4788. |
