---
title: "§ 1058. Transfers of securities under certain agreements"
identifier: "USC-T26-S1058"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section1058"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–345, § 2(d)(1)](/us/pl/95/345/s2/d/1), Aug. 15, 1978, [92 Stat. 482](/us/stat/92/482).)"
---
# § 1058. Transfers of securities under certain agreements

##### § 1058. Transfers of securities under certain agreements

(a) General rule In the case of a taxpayer who transfers securities (as defined in section 1236(c)) pursuant to an agreement which meets the requirements of subsection (b), no gain or loss shall be recognized on the exchange of such securities by the taxpayer for an obligation under such agreement, or on the exchange of rights under such agreement by that taxpayer for securities identical to the securities transferred by that taxpayer.

(b) Agreement requirements In order to meet the requirements of this subsection, an agreement shall—

(1) provide for the return to the transferor of securities identical to the securities transferred;

(2) require that payments shall be made to the transferor of amounts equivalent to all interest, dividends, and other distributions which the owner of the securities is entitled to receive during the period beginning with the transfer of the securities by the transferor and ending with the transfer of identical securities back to the transferor;

(3) not reduce the risk of loss or opportunity for gain of the transferor of the securities in the securities transferred; and

(4) meet such other requirements as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe.

(c) Basis Property acquired by a taxpayer described in subsection (a), in a transaction described in that subsection, shall have the same basis as the property transferred by that taxpayer.

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–345, § 2(d)(1)](/us/pl/95/345/s2/d/1), Aug. 15, 1978, [92 Stat. 482](/us/stat/92/482).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1058 was renumbered [section 1063 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1063).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to amounts received after Dec. 31, 1976, as payments with respect to securities loans (as defined in [section 512(a)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t26/s512/a/5)), and transfers of securities, under agreements described in this section, occurring after such date, see [section 2(e) of Pub. L. 95–345](/us/pl/95/345/s2/e), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 509 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s509).
