---
title: "§ 8483. Submission of reports"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8483"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8483"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–620, title VIII, § 807](/us/pl/95/620/tVIII/s807), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3348](/us/stat/92/3348).)"
---
# § 8483. Submission of reports

##### § 8483. Submission of reports

Copies of any report required by this chapter to be submitted to the Congress shall be separately submitted to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 95–620, title VIII, § 807](/us/pl/95/620/tVIII/s807), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3348](/us/stat/92/3348).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–620](/us/pl/95/620), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3289](/us/stat/92/3289), known as the Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 8301 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8301) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives immediately prior to noon on Jan. 3, 1981, by House Resolution No. 549, Ninety-sixth Congress, Mar. 25, 1980. Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.
