---
title: "§ 10455. Senior Policy Advisor for Culturally Specific Communities"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10455"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10455"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2018](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2018), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tIX/s902), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 911](/us/stat/136/911).)"
---
# § 10455. Senior Policy Advisor for Culturally Specific Communities

##### § 10455. Senior Policy Advisor for Culturally Specific Communities

(a) Establishment There is established in the Office on Violence Against Women a Senior Policy Advisor for Culturally Specific Communities.

(b) Duties The Senior Policy Advisor for Culturally Specific Communities, under the guidance and authority of the Director, shall—

(1) advise on the administration of grants related to culturally specific services and contracts with culturally specific organizations;

(2) coordinate development of Federal policy, protocols, and guidelines on matters relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in culturally specific communities;

(3) advise the Director on policies, legislation, implementation of laws, and other issues relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in culturally specific communities;

(4) provide technical assistance, coordination, and support to other offices and bureaus in the Department of Justice to develop policy and to enforce Federal laws relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in culturally specific communities;

(5) ensure that appropriate technical assistance, developed and provided by entities with expertise in culturally specific communities, is made available to grantees and potential grantees proposing to serve culturally specific communities;

(6) ensure access to grants and technical assistance for culturally specific organizations; and

(7) analyze the distribution of grant funding in order to identify barriers for culturally specific organizations.

(c) Qualifications Not later than 120 days after March 15, 2022, the Director shall hire for the position established under subsection (a) an individual with personal, lived, and work experience from a culturally specific community, and a demonstrated history and expertise addressing domestic violence or sexual assault in a nongovernmental agency.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2018](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2018), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tIX/s902), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 911](/us/stat/136/911).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.
