---
title: "§ 40127. Prohibitions on discrimination"
identifier: "USC-T49-S40127"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section40127"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–181, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/106/181/tVII/s706/a), Apr. 5, 2000, [114 Stat. 157](/us/stat/114/157).)"
---
# § 40127. Prohibitions on discrimination

##### § 40127. Prohibitions on discrimination

(a) Persons in Air Transportation.— An air carrier or foreign air carrier may not subject a person in air transportation to discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, or ancestry.

(b) Use of Private Airports.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no State or local government may prohibit the use or full enjoyment of a private airport within its jurisdiction by any person on the basis of that person’s race, color, national origin, religion, sex, or ancestry.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–181, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/106/181/tVII/s706/a), Apr. 5, 2000, [114 Stat. 157](/us/stat/114/157).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 1999, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 106–181](/us/pl/106/181/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 2000 Amendments note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).

#### Training Policies Regarding Racial, Ethnic, and Religious Nondiscrimination

[Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIV/s407), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3330](/us/stat/132/3330), provided that: “(a) In General.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 2018], the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress [Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives] and the Secretary of Transportation a report describing—“(1) each air carrier’s training policy for its employees and contractors regarding racial, ethnic, and religious nondiscrimination; and “(2) how frequently an air carrier is required to train new employees and contractors because of turnover in positions that require such training. “(b) Best Practices.—After the date the report is submitted under subsection (a), the Secretary shall develop and disseminate to air carriers best practices necessary to improve the training policies described in subsection (a), based on the findings of the report and in consultation with—“(1) passengers of diverse racial, ethnic, and religious backgrounds; “(2) national organizations that represent impacted communities; “(3) air carriers; “(4) airport operators; and “(5) contract service providers.”
