---
title: "§ 1591c. Expiration date; exception"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1591c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1591c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title I, § 104, [65 Stat. 295](/us/stat/65/295); [June 30, 1953, ch. 170, § 16](/us/act/1953-06-30/ch170/s16), [67 Stat. 125](/us/stat/67/125); [June 29, 1954, ch. 410, § 3](/us/act/1954-06-29/ch410/s3), [68 Stat. 320](/us/stat/68/320); [Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649](/us/act/1954-08-02/ch649), title I, § 129, [68 Stat. 609](/us/stat/68/609); [June 30, 1955, ch. 251, § 2](/us/act/1955-06-30/ch251/s2), [69 Stat. 225](/us/stat/69/225); [Aug. 11, 1955, c"
---
# § 1591c. Expiration date; exception

##### § 1591c. Expiration date; exception

After June 30, 1953, no construction of permanent housing may be begun under subchapter IX of this chapter. After July 31, 1954, (a) no mortgage may be insured under title IX of the National Housing Act, as amended [[12 U.S.C. 1750](/us/usc/t12/s1750) et seq.] (except (i) pursuant to a commitment to insure issued on or before such date or (ii) after July 31, 1954, and until August 1, 1955, during such period, or for such project or projects, as the President may designate hereunder or (iii) pursuant to a commitment to insure issued pursuant to the preceding clause (ii)), (b) no agreement may be made to extend assistance for the provision of community facilities or services under subchapter IX of this chapter, and no construction of temporary housing or community facilities by the United States may be begun under such subchapter, except after July 31, 1954, and until August 1, 1955, during such period, or for such project or projects, as the President may designate hereunder: *Provided*, That to the extent necessary to assure the adequate completion of any facilities for which prior agreements have been made under subchapter IX, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, at any time after July 31, 1954, enter into amendatory agreements under such subchapter involving the expenditure of additional Federal funds within the balance available therefor on or before such date, (c) no loan may be made or obligations purchased by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under [section 1701g–1 of title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1701g–1) (except pursuant to a commitment issued on or before June 30, 1953, or to refinance an existing loan or existing obligations held under such section by said Secretary on June 30, 1953).

*([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title I, § 104, [65 Stat. 295](/us/stat/65/295); [June 30, 1953, ch. 170, § 16](/us/act/1953-06-30/ch170/s16), [67 Stat. 125](/us/stat/67/125); [June 29, 1954, ch. 410, § 3](/us/act/1954-06-29/ch410/s3), [68 Stat. 320](/us/stat/68/320); [Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649](/us/act/1954-08-02/ch649), title I, § 129, [68 Stat. 609](/us/stat/68/609); [June 30, 1955, ch. 251, § 2](/us/act/1955-06-30/ch251/s2), [69 Stat. 225](/us/stat/69/225); [Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783](/us/act/1955-08-11/ch783), title I, § 105, [69 Stat. 637](/us/stat/69/637); [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Housing Act, referred to in text, is [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), [48 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/48/1246). Title IX of the National Housing Act is title IX of [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), as added by [act Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378, title II, § 201](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378/tII/s201), [65 Stat. 295](/us/stat/65/295), which is classified generally to subchapter X (§ 1750 et seq.) of chapter 13 of Title 12, Banks and Banking. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1701 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1701) and Tables.

[Section 1701g–1 of title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1701g–1), referred to in text, has been omitted from the Code.

#### Amendments

1955—Act Aug. 11, 1955, inserted item (iii) in cl. (a).

Act June 30, 1955, substituted “August 1, 1955” for “July 1, 1955” in two places in second sentence.

1954—Act Aug. 2, 1954, gave President standby authority to use mortgage insurance authority under title IX of the National Housing Act and the provisions in subchapter IX of this chapter for Federal aid in providing defense housing and community facilities and services in critical defense areas, in substitution for provisions under which authority for new projects under these two programs would have expired on June 30, 1954, and authorized the Housing and Home Finance Administrator to enter into amendatory agreements after June 30, 1954, to provide additional Federal assistance with respect to defense community facilities undertaken on or before such date where he finds it necessary to do so to assure the adequate completion of such facilities.

Act June 29, 1954, substituted “July 31, 1954” for “June 30, 1954” at beginning of second sentence.

1953—Act June 30, 1953, inserted sentence prohibiting the beginning of permanent housing construction under subchapter IX of this chapter, after June 30, 1953; substituted “June 30, 1954” for “June 30, 1953” at beginning of present second sentence and “temporary housing” for “housing” in cl. (b) of present second sentence; struck a former cl. (c) out of existing second sentence which provided that (after June 30, 1953) no land might be acquired by the Housing and Home Finance Administrator under subchapter X of this chapter; and redesignated cl. (d) as (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see note set out under [section 1581 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1581).
