---
title: "§ 2370c–2. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2370c–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2370c–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–457, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/110/457/tIV/s405), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5090](/us/stat/122/5090); [Pub. L. 115–425, title II, § 212(c)](/us/pl/115/425/tII/s212/c), Jan. 8, 2019, [132 Stat. 5486](/us/stat/132/5486).)"
---
# § 2370c–2. Reports

##### § 2370c–2. Reports

(a) Investigation of allegations regarding child soldiers United States missions abroad shall thoroughly investigate reports of the use of child soldiers.

(b) Information for annual Human Rights Reports In preparing those portions of the annual Human Rights Report that relate to child soldiers under sections 2151n and 2304 of this title, the Secretary of State shall ensure that such reports include a description of the use of child soldiers in each foreign country, including—

(1) trends toward improvement in such country of the status of child soldiers or the continued or increased tolerance of such practices; and

(2) the role of the government of such country in engaging in or tolerating the use of child soldiers.

(c) Annual report to Congress If a country is notified pursuant to [section 2370c–1(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2370c–1/b/2), or a waiver is granted pursuant to [section 2370c–1(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2370c–1/c/1), the President shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees not later than June 15 of the following year. The report shall include—

(1) a list of the countries receiving notification that they are in violation of the standards under sections 2370c to 2370c–2 of this title;

(2) a description and the amount of any assistance withheld under this title pursuant to the application to those countries of the prohibition in [section 2370c–1(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2370c–1/a);

(3) a list of any waivers or exceptions exercised under sections 2370c to 2370c–2 of this title;

(4) justification for any such waivers and exceptions; and

(5) a description and the amount of any assistance provided under sections 2370c to 2370c–2 of this title pursuant to the issuance of such waiver.

(d) Information to be included in annual trafficking in persons report If the Secretary of State notifies a country pursuant to [section 2370c–1(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2370c–1/b/2), or the President grants a waiver pursuant to [section 2370c–1(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2370c–1/c/1), the Secretary of State shall include, in each report required under [section 7107(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7107/b), the information required to be included in the annual report to Congress under paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (c).

*([Pub. L. 110–457, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/110/457/tIV/s405), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5090](/us/stat/122/5090); [Pub. L. 115–425, title II, § 212(c)](/us/pl/115/425/tII/s212/c), Jan. 8, 2019, [132 Stat. 5486](/us/stat/132/5486).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 2370c to 2370c–2 of this title, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), (3), (5), was in the original “this title”, meaning title IV of [Pub. L. 110–457](/us/pl/110/457), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5087](/us/stat/122/5087), known as the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008, which is classified principally to sections 2370c to 2370c–2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2008 Amendment note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008, and also as part of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–425, § 212(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/425/s212/c/1/A), in introductory provisions, struck out “, during any of the 5 years following December 23, 2008,” after “If” and substituted “waiver” for “wavier”.

Subsec. (c)(2) to (5). [Pub. L. 115–425, § 212(c)(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/425/s212/c/1/B)–(D), added par. (2), redesignated former pars. (2) to (4) as (3) to (5), respectively, and in par. (5), inserted “and the amount” after “a description”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 115–425, § 212(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/425/s212/c/2), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 23, 2008, see [section 407 of Pub. L. 110–457](/us/pl/110/457/s407), set out as a note under [section 2370c of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2370c).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority

Memorandum of President of the United States, June 14, 2012, 77 F.R. 37551, provided:

Memorandum for the Secretary of State

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including [section 301 of title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), United States Code, I hereby delegate to you the functions conferred upon the President by section 405(c) of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008, title IV of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 ([Public Law 110–457](/us/pl/110/457)).

You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
