---
title: "§ 40741. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S40741"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section40741"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–253, § 2](/us/pl/112/253/s2), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2407](/us/stat/126/2407).)"
---
# § 40741. Definitions

##### § 40741. Definitions

(1) DNA arrestee collection process The term “DNA arrestee collection process” means, with respect to a State, a process under which the State provides for the collection, for purposes of inclusion in the index described in [section 12592(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12592/a) (in this subchapter referred to as the “National DNA Index System”), of DNA profiles or DNA data from the following individuals who are at least 18 years of age:

(A) Individuals who are arrested for or charged with a criminal offense under State law that consists of a homicide.

(B) Individuals who are arrested for or charged with a criminal offense under State law that has an element involving a sexual act or sexual contact with another and that is punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year.

(C) Individuals who are arrested for or charged with a criminal offense under State law that has an element of kidnaping or abduction and that is punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year.

(D) Individuals who are arrested for or charged with a criminal offense under State law that consists of burglary punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year.

(E) Individuals who are arrested for or charged with a criminal offense under State law that consists of aggravated assault punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year.

(2) State The term “State” means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

*([Pub. L. 112–253, § 2](/us/pl/112/253/s2), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2407](/us/stat/126/2407).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 112–253](/us/pl/112/253), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2407](/us/stat/126/2407), known as the Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act of 2012, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2013 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14137 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14137), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
