---
title: "§ 1217. Transmittal of information to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T5-S1217"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section1217"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–12, § 3(a)(13)](/us/pl/101/12/s3/a/13), Apr. 10, 1989, [103 Stat. 28](/us/stat/103/28); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1097(h)(3)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1097/h/3), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1625](/us/stat/131/1625).)"
---
# § 1217. Transmittal of information to Congress

##### § 1217. Transmittal of information to Congress

(a) In General.— The Special Counsel or any employee of the Special Counsel designated by the Special Counsel, shall transmit to the Congress on the request of any committee or subcommittee thereof, by report, testimony, or otherwise, information and the Special Counsel’s views on functions, responsibilities, or other matters relating to the Office. Such information shall be transmitted concurrently to the President and any other appropriate agency in the executive branch.

(b) Additional Report Required.—

(1) In general.— If an allegation submitted to the Special Counsel is resolved by an agreement between an agency and an individual, the Special Counsel shall submit to Congress and each congressional committee with jurisdiction over the agency a report regarding the agreement.

(2) Contents.— Any report required under paragraph (1) shall identify, with respect to an agreement described in that paragraph—

(A) the agency that entered into the agreement;

(B) the position and employment location of the employee who submitted the allegation that formed the basis of the agreement, provided the information is not so specific as to be reasonably likely to identify the employee;

(C) the position and employment location of any employee alleged by an employee described in subparagraph (B) to have committed a prohibited personnel practice, as defined in section 2302(a)(1);

(D) a description of the allegation described in subparagraph (B); and

(E) whether the agency that entered into the agreement has agreed to pursue any disciplinary action as a result of the allegation described in subparagraph (B).

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–12, § 3(a)(13)](/us/pl/101/12/s3/a/13), Apr. 10, 1989, [103 Stat. 28](/us/stat/103/28); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1097(h)(3)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1097/h/3), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1625](/us/stat/131/1625).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).
