---
title: "§ 4024. Merit-based award of grants for research and development"
identifier: "USC-T10-S4024"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4024"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–355, title VII, § 7203(a)(2)](/us/pl/103/355/tVII/s7203/a/2), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3380](/us/stat/108/3380), § 2374; renumbered § 4024 and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII), §§ 1841(b)(1), (c), 1883(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4243](/us/stat/134/4243), 4294; [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(u)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVII/s1701/u/2/B), (D), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2151](/us/stat/135/2151); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, "
---
# § 4024. Merit-based award of grants for research and development

##### § 4024. Merit-based award of grants for research and development

(a) It is the policy of Congress that an agency named in [section 3063 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3063) should not be required by legislation to award a new grant for research, development, test, or evaluation to a non-Federal Government entity. It is further the policy of Congress that any program, project, or technology identified in legislation be awarded through merit-based selection procedures.

(b) A provision of law may not be construed as requiring a new grant to be awarded to a specified non-Federal Government entity unless that provision of law—

(1) specifically refers to this subsection;

(2) specifically identifies the particular non-Federal Government entity involved; and

(3) specifically states that the award to that entity is required by such provision of law in contravention of the policy set forth in subsection (a).

(c) For purposes of this section, a grant is a new grant unless the work provided for in the grant is a continuation of the work performed by the specified entity under a preceding grant.

(d) This section shall not apply with respect to any grant that calls upon the National Academy of Sciences to investigate, examine, or experiment upon any subject of science or art of significance to an agency named in [section 3063 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3063) and to report on such matters to the Congress or any agency of the Federal Government.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–355, title VII, § 7203(a)(2)](/us/pl/103/355/tVII/s7203/a/2), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3380](/us/stat/108/3380), § 2374; renumbered § 4024 and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII), §§ 1841(b)(1), (c), 1883(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4243](/us/stat/134/4243), 4294; [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(u)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVII/s1701/u/2/B), (D), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2151](/us/stat/135/2151); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVIII, § 1801(a)(31)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVIII/s1801/a/31), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 685](/us/stat/137/685).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 4024 was renumbered [section 7374 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7374).

#### Amendments

2023—Subsecs. (a), (d). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) substituted “[section 3063 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3063)” for “[section 2303(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2303/a)”.

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283, § 1841(c)](/us/pl/116/283/s1841/c), which directed the renumbering of [section 2374 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2374) as section 4008 instead of this section, was amended generally by [Pub. L. 117–81, § 1701(u)(2)(D)](/us/pl/117/81/s1701/u/2/D), effective as if included therein, so that such renumbering was no longer directed.

[Pub. L. 116–283, § 1841(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1841/b/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–81, § 1701(u)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/81/s1701/u/2/B), renumbered [section 2374 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2374) as this section.

Subsecs. (a), (d). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1883(b)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/s1883/b/2), which directed that each reference in the text of title 10 to a section that was redesignated by title XVIII of [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283), as such section was in effect before the redesignation, be amended by striking such reference and inserting a reference to the appropriate redesignated section, was not executed with respect to “section 2303(a)”, which was redesignated as multiple sections.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) applicable as if included in the enactment of title XVIII of [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) as enacted, see [section 1701(a)(2) of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s1701/a/2), set out in a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001) and note below.

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Effective Date

For effective date and applicability of section, see [section 10001 of Pub. L. 103–355](/us/pl/103/355/s10001), set out as an Effective Date of 1994 Amendment note under [section 8752 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8752).
