---
title: "§ 6108. Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Fund"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–247, § 9](/us/pl/106/247/s9), July 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 596](/us/stat/114/596); [Pub. L. 109–363, title III, § 302(h)(1)](/us/pl/109/363/tIII/s302/h/1), (2), (3)(B), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2076](/us/stat/120/2076), 2077.)"
---
# § 6108. Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Fund

##### § 6108. Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Fund

(a) Establishment There is established in the Treasury a separate account, which shall be known as the “Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Fund”. The Fund shall consist of amounts deposited into the Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury under subsection (b).

(b) Deposits into the Fund The Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit into the Fund—

(1) all amounts received by the Secretary in the form of donations under subsection (d); and

(2) other amounts appropriated to the Fund.

(c) Use

(1) In general Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may use amounts in the Account,11 So in original. Probably should be “Fund”. without further Act of appropriation, to carry out this chapter.

(2) Administrative expenses Of amounts in the Account ^1 available for each fiscal year, the Secretary may expend not more than 3 percent or up to $100,000, whichever is greater, to pay the administrative expenses necessary to carry out this chapter.

(d) Acceptance and use of donations The Secretary may accept and use donations to carry out this chapter. Amounts received by the Secretary in the form of donations shall be transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit into the Fund.

*([Pub. L. 106–247, § 9](/us/pl/106/247/s9), July 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 596](/us/stat/114/596); [Pub. L. 109–363, title III, § 302(h)(1)](/us/pl/109/363/tIII/s302/h/1), (2), (3)(B), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2076](/us/stat/120/2076), 2077.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–363, § 302(h)(1)](/us/pl/109/363/s302/h/1), substituted “Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Fund” for “Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Account” in section catchline.

Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 109–363, § 302(h)(1)](/us/pl/109/363/s302/h/1), added subsecs. (a) and (b) and struck out former subsecs. (a) and (b) which related to the establishment of and deposits into the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Account.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 109–363, § 302(h)(2)](/us/pl/109/363/s302/h/2), substituted “$100,000” for “$80,000”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–363, § 302(h)(3)(B)](/us/pl/109/363/s302/h/3/B), substituted “Fund” for “Account”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Funds

[Pub. L. 109–363, title III, § 302(h)(4)](/us/pl/109/363/tIII/s302/h/4), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2077](/us/stat/120/2077), provided that: “The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer to the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Fund amounts that were in the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Account immediately before the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 2006].”
