---
title: "§ 847. Art. 47. Refusal of person not subject to chapter to appear, testify, or produce evidence"
identifier: "USC-T10-S847"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section847"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041). [70A Stat. 53](/us/stat/70A/53); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XI, § 1111](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXI/s1111), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 461](/us/stat/110/461); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1057(a)(5)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1057/a/5), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3440](/us/stat/119/3440); [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 542(a)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tV/s542/a), (b), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/125/1411); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, "
---
# § 847. Art. 47. Refusal of person not subject to chapter to appear, testify, or produce evidence

##### § 847. Art. 47. Refusal of person not subject to chapter to appear, testify, or produce evidence

(a) In General.—

(1) Any person described in paragraph (2) who—

is guilty of an offense against the United States.

(A) willfully neglects or refuses to appear; or

(B) willfully refuses to qualify as a witness or to testify or to produce any evidence which that person is required to produce;

(2) The persons referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:

(A) Any person not subject to this chapter who—

(i) is issued a subpoena or other process described in subsection (c) of [section 846 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s846) (article 46); and

(ii) is provided a means for reimbursement from the Government for fees and mileage at the rates allowed to witnesses attending the courts of the United States or, in the case of extraordinary hardship, is advanced such fees and mileage.

(B) Any person not subject to this chapter who is issued a subpoena or other process described in subsection (d) of [section 846 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s846) (article 46).

(b) Any person who commits an offense named in subsection (a) shall be tried on indictment or information in a United States district court or in a court of original criminal jurisdiction in any of the Commonwealths or possessions of the United States, and jurisdiction is conferred upon those courts for that purpose. Upon conviction, such a person shall be fined or imprisoned, or both, at the court’s discretion.

(c) The United States attorney or the officer prosecuting for the United States in any such court of original criminal jurisdiction shall, upon the certification of the facts to him by the military court, commission, court of inquiry, board, or convening authority, file an information against and prosecute any person violating this article.

(d) The fees and mileage of witnesses shall be advanced or paid out of the appropriations for the compensation of witnesses.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041). [70A Stat. 53](/us/stat/70A/53); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XI, § 1111](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXI/s1111), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 461](/us/stat/110/461); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1057(a)(5)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1057/a/5), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3440](/us/stat/119/3440); [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 542(a)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tV/s542/a), (b), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/125/1411); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1702(c)(3)(D)](/us/pl/113/66/dA/tXVII/s1702/c/3/D), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 958](/us/stat/127/958); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LVII, § 5229](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLVII/s5229), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2913](/us/stat/130/2913).)*

In subsection (a), the word “Any” is substituted for the word “Every”. The word “is” is substituted for the words “shall be deemed”.

In subsection (b), the words “named in subsection (a)” are substituted for the words “denounced by this article”. The words “Territories, Commonwealths, or” are substituted for the word “Territorial”. The words “not more than” are substituted for the words “a period not exceeding”.

In subsection (c), the words “It shall be the duty of * * * to” are omitted as surplusage. The words “United States Attorney” are substituted for the words “United States district attorney”, to conform to the terminology of [section 501 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s501). The word “shall” is inserted after the word “jurisdiction”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 847(a)847(b) | 50:622(a).50:622(b). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 47), 64 Stat. 123. |
| 847(c) | 50:622(c). |  |
| 847(d) | 50:622(d). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–328, § 5229(b)](/us/pl/114/328/s5229/b), amended section catchline generally, substituting “Refusal of person not subject to chapter to appear, testify, or produce evidence” for “Refusal to appear or testify”.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 5229(a)](/us/pl/114/328/s5229/a), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: “Any person not subject to this chapter who—

“(1) has been duly subpoenaed to appear as a witness before a court-martial, military commission, court of inquiry, or any other military court or board, or before any military or civil officer designated to take a deposition to be read in evidence before such a court, commission, or board, or has been duly issued a subpoena duces tecum for a preliminary hearing pursuant to [section 832 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s832) (article 32);

“(2) has been provided a means for reimbursement from the Government for fees and mileage at the rates allowed to witnesses attending the courts of the United States or, in the case of extraordinary hardship, is advanced such fees and mileage; and

“(3) willfully neglects or refuses to appear, or refuses to qualify as a witness or to testify or to produce any evidence which that person may have been legally subpoenaed to produce;

is guilty of an offense against the United States.”

2013—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 113–66](/us/pl/113/66) substituted “a preliminary hearing pursuant to [section 832 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s832) (article 32)” for “an investigation pursuant to [section 832(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s832/b) (article 32(b))”.

2011—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 112–81, § 542(b)](/us/pl/112/81/s542/b), substituted “subpoenaed” for “subpenaed” in two places.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 112–81, § 542(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/112/81/s542/a/1/A), substituted “board, or has been duly issued a subpoena duces tecum for an investigation pursuant to [section 832(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s832/b) (article 32(b));” for “board;”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 112–81, § 542(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/112/81/s542/a/1/B), substituted “provided a means for reimbursement from the Government for fees and mileage” for “duly paid or tendered the fees and mileage of a witness” and inserted “or, in the case of extraordinary hardship, is advanced such fees and mileage” before semicolon.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–81, § 542(a)(2)](/us/pl/112/81/s542/a/2), substituted “board, or convening authority” for “or board”.

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163) substituted “Commonwealths or possessions” for “Territories, Commonwealths, or possessions”.

1996—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) inserted “indictment or” after “shall be tried on” and substituted “shall be fined or imprisoned, or both, at the court’s discretion” for “shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–66](/us/pl/113/66) effective on the later of Dec. 26, 2014, or the date of the enactment of the Carl Levin and Howard P. “Buck” McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Dec. 19, 2014) and applicable with respect to preliminary hearings conducted on or after that effective date, see [section 1702(d)(1) of Pub. L. 113–66](/us/pl/113/66/s1702/d/1), set out as a note under [section 802 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s802).

#### Effective Date of 2011 Amendment

[Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 542(c)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tV/s542/c), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/125/1411), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to subpoenas issued after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 31, 2011].”
