---
title: "§ 7454. Physician assistants and other health care professionals: additional pay"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7454"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7454"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 401(b)(4)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s401/b/4), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 234](/us/stat/105/234); amended [Pub. L. 107–135, title I, § 121(a)](/us/pl/107/135/tI/s121/a), Jan. 23, 2002, [115 Stat. 2450](/us/stat/115/2450); [Pub. L. 108–170, title III](/us/pl/108/170/tIII), §§ 301(d), 303(a), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2057](/us/stat/117/2057), 2058; [Pub. L. 111–163, title VI, § 601(k)(2)](/us/pl/111/163/tVI/s601/k/2), May 5, 2010, [124 Stat. 1171](/us/stat/124/1171).)"
---
# § 7454. Physician assistants and other health care professionals: additional pay

##### § 7454. Physician assistants and other health care professionals: additional pay

(a) Physician assistants and expanded-function dental auxiliaries shall be entitled to additional pay on the same basis as provided for nurses in [section 7453 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7453).

(b)

(1) When the Secretary determines it to be necessary in order to obtain or retain the services of individuals in positions listed in [section 7401(3) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7401/3), the Secretary may, on a nationwide, local, or other geographic basis, pay persons employed in such positions additional pay on the same basis as provided for nurses in [section 7453 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7453).

(2) Health care professionals employed in positions referred to in paragraph (1) shall be entitled to additional pay on the same basis as provided for nurses in [section 7453(c) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7453/c).

(3) Employees appointed under [section 7408 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7408) performing service on a tour of duty, any part of which is within the period commencing at midnight Friday and ending at midnight Sunday, shall receive additional pay in addition to the rate of basic pay provided such employees for each hour of service on such tour at a rate equal to 25 percent of such employee’s hourly rate of basic pay.

(c) The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation standards for compensation and payment under this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 401(b)(4)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s401/b/4), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 234](/us/stat/105/234); amended [Pub. L. 107–135, title I, § 121(a)](/us/pl/107/135/tI/s121/a), Jan. 23, 2002, [115 Stat. 2450](/us/stat/115/2450); [Pub. L. 108–170, title III](/us/pl/108/170/tIII), §§ 301(d), 303(a), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2057](/us/stat/117/2057), 2058; [Pub. L. 111–163, title VI, § 601(k)(2)](/us/pl/111/163/tVI/s601/k/2), May 5, 2010, [124 Stat. 1171](/us/stat/124/1171).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 4107(f) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4107/f) prior to the repeal of that section as part of the complete revision of chapter 73 of this title by [Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40).

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 111–163](/us/pl/111/163) amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (3) read as follows: “Employees appointed under [section 7408 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7408) shall be entitled to additional pay on the same basis as provided for nurses in [section 7453(c) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7453/c).”

2003—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 108–170, § 301(d)](/us/pl/108/170/s301/d), substituted “individuals in positions listed in [section 7401(3) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7401/3),” for “certified or registered respiratory therapists, licensed physical therapists, licensed practical or vocational nurses, pharmacists, or occupational therapists,”.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 108–170, § 303(a)](/us/pl/108/170/s303/a), added par. (3).

2002—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–135](/us/pl/107/135) designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–170, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/108/170/tIII/s303/b), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2058](/us/stat/117/2058), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect with respect to the first pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2004.”

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

[Pub. L. 107–135, title I, § 121(b)](/us/pl/107/135/tI/s121/b), Jan. 23, 2002, [115 Stat. 2450](/us/stat/115/2450), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to pay periods beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 23, 2002].”
