---
title: "§ 10707. Evaluation of performance of Department of Justice programs"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–198, title VII, § 701(b)](/us/pl/114/198/tVII/s701/b), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 737](/us/stat/130/737).)"
---
# § 10707. Evaluation of performance of Department of Justice programs

##### § 10707. Evaluation of performance of Department of Justice programs

(1) Evaluation of Justice Department Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program Not later than 5 years after July 22, 2016, the Attorney General shall complete an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program under part LL of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 [[34 U.S.C. 10701](/us/usc/t34/s10701) et seq.] administered by the Department of Justice based upon the information reported under paragraph (4).

(2) Interim evaluation Not later than 3 years after July 22, 2016, the Attorney General shall complete an interim evaluation assessing the nature and extent of the incidence of opioid abuse and illegal opioid distribution in the United States.

(3) Metrics and outcomes for evaluation Not later than 180 days after July 22, 2016, the Attorney General shall identify outcomes that are to be achieved by activities funded by the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program and the metrics by which the achievement of such outcomes shall be determined.

(4) Metrics data collection The Attorney General shall require grantees under the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program (and those receiving subawards under section 3021(b) of part LL of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 [[34 U.S.C. 10701(b)](/us/usc/t34/s10701/b)]) to collect and annually report to the Department of Justice data based upon the metrics identified under paragraph (3).

(5) Publication of data and findings

(A) Publication of outcomes and metrics The Attorney General shall, not later than 30 days after completion of the requirement under paragraph (3), publish the outcomes and metrics identified under that paragraph.

(B) Publication of evaluation In the case of the interim evaluation under paragraph (2), and the final evaluation under paragraph (1), the entity conducting the evaluation shall, not later than 90 days after such an evaluation is completed, publish the results of such evaluation and issue a report on such evaluation to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate. Such report shall also be published along with the data used to make such evaluation.

(6) Independent evaluation For purposes of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), the Attorney General shall—

(A) enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences; or

(B) enter into a contract or cooperative agreement with an entity that is not an agency of the Federal Government, and is qualified to conduct and evaluate research pertaining to opioid use and abuse, and draw conclusions about overall opioid use and abuse on the basis of that research.

*([Pub. L. 114–198, title VII, § 701(b)](/us/pl/114/198/tVII/s701/b), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 737](/us/stat/130/737).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, referred to in par. (1), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197). Part LL of title I of the Act is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016, and not as part of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797ff–6 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797ff–6), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
