---
title: "§ 1503. Millimeter wave spectrum"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–141, div. P, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/115/141/dP/tVI/s604), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1099](/us/stat/132/1099).)"
---
# § 1503. Millimeter wave spectrum

##### § 1503. Millimeter wave spectrum

(a) FCC proceeding Not later than 2 years after March 23, 2018, the Commission shall publish a notice of proposed rulemaking to consider service rules to authorize mobile or fixed terrestrial wireless operations, including for advanced mobile service operations, in the radio frequency band between 42000 and 42500 megahertz.

(b) Considerations In conducting a rulemaking under subsection (a), the Commission shall—

(1) consider how the band described in subsection (a) may be used to provide commercial wireless broadband service, including whether—

(A) such spectrum may be best used for licensed or unlicensed services, or some combination thereof; and

(B) to permit additional licensed operations in such band on a shared basis; and

(2) include technical characteristics under which the band described in subsection (a) may be employed for mobile or fixed terrestrial wireless operations, including any appropriate coexistence requirements.

(c) Spectrum made available on and after February 11, 2016 Any spectrum that has been made available for licensed or unlicensed use on or after February 11, 2016, and that otherwise satisfies the requirements of [section 1502 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1502) may be counted towards the requirements of [section 1502(a) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1502/a).

*([Pub. L. 115–141, div. P, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/115/141/dP/tVI/s604), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1099](/us/stat/132/1099).)*
