---
title: "§ 286e–9. Stabilization programs"
identifier: "USC-T22-S286e–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section286e–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([July 31, 1945, ch. 339, § 30](/us/act/1945-07-31/ch339/s30), as added [Pub. L. 95–435, § 4](/us/pl/95/435/s4), Oct. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 1052](/us/stat/92/1052); amended [Pub. L. 96–389, § 2(b)](/us/pl/96/389/s2/b), Oct. 7, 1980, [94 Stat. 1553](/us/stat/94/1553); [Pub. L. 101–240, title V, § 541(d)(1)](/us/pl/101/240/tV/s541/d/1), (f)(2), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2518](/us/stat/103/2518), 2519.)"
---
# § 286e–9. Stabilization programs

##### § 286e–9. Stabilization programs

The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director on the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund to initiate a wide consultation with the managing director of the Fund and other member country executive directors with regard to encouraging the staff of the Fund to formulate stabilization programs which, to the maximum feasible extent, foster a broader base of productive investment and employment, especially in those productive activities which are designed to meet basic human needs.

*([July 31, 1945, ch. 339, § 30](/us/act/1945-07-31/ch339/s30), as added [Pub. L. 95–435, § 4](/us/pl/95/435/s4), Oct. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 1052](/us/stat/92/1052); amended [Pub. L. 96–389, § 2(b)](/us/pl/96/389/s2/b), Oct. 7, 1980, [94 Stat. 1553](/us/stat/94/1553); [Pub. L. 101–240, title V, § 541(d)(1)](/us/pl/101/240/tV/s541/d/1), (f)(2), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2518](/us/stat/103/2518), 2519.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1989—[Pub. L. 101–240](/us/pl/101/240) struck out subsec. (a) designation and struck out subsec. (b) which read as follows: “In order to gain a better understanding of the social, political and economic impact of the Fund’s stabilization programs on borrowing countries, especially as it relates to the poor majority within those countries, the United States Governor of the Fund shall prepare and submit, not later than 180 days after the close of each calendar year, a report to the Congress. Such report shall evaluate, to the maximum extent feasible, with respect to countries to which loans are made during each year, the effects of policies of those countries which result from the standby agreements on basic human needs in such countries.”

1980—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 96–389, § 2(b)(1)](/us/pl/96/389/s2/b/1), struck out “entered into pursuant to loans from the Supplementary Financing Facility” after “stabilization programs”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 96–389, § 2(b)(2)](/us/pl/96/389/s2/b/2), (3), struck out “entered into pursuant to loans from the Supplementary Financing Facility” after “stabilization programs” and “by the Supplementary Financing Facility” after “loans are made”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–389](/us/pl/96/389) effective Oct. 7, 1980, see [section 12 of Pub. L. 96–389](/us/pl/96/389/s12), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 286s of this title](/us/usc/t22/s286s).
