---
title: "§ 6836. Support for voluntary building energy codes"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6836"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6836"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–385, title III, § 307](/us/pl/94/385/tIII/s307), as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 101(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/486/tI/s101/a/2), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2785](/us/stat/106/2785).)"
---
# § 6836. Support for voluntary building energy codes

##### § 6836. Support for voluntary building energy codes

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary, after consulting with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, other appropriate Federal agencies, CABO, ASHRAE, the National Conference of States on Building Codes and Standards, and any other appropriate building codes and standards organization, shall support the upgrading of voluntary building energy codes for new residential and commercial buildings. Such support shall include—

(1) a compilation of data and other information regarding building energy efficiency standards and codes in the possession of the Federal Government, State and local governments, and industry organizations;

(2) assistance in improving the technical basis for such standards and codes;

(3) assistance in determining the cost-effectiveness and the technical feasibility of the energy efficiency measures included in such standards and codes; and

(4) assistance in identifying appropriate measures with regard to radon and other indoor air pollutants.

(b) Review The Secretary shall periodically review the technical and economic basis of voluntary building energy codes and, based upon ongoing research activities—

(1) recommend amendments to such codes including measures with regard to radon and other indoor air pollutants;

(2) seek adoption of all technologically feasible and economically justified energy efficiency measures; and

(3) otherwise participate in any industry process for review and modification of such codes.

*([Pub. L. 94–385, title III, § 307](/us/pl/94/385/tIII/s307), as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 101(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/486/tI/s101/a/2), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2785](/us/stat/106/2785).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6836, [Pub. L. 94–385, title III, § 307](/us/pl/94/385/tIII/s307), Aug. 14, 1976, [90 Stat. 1149](/us/stat/90/1149); [Pub. L. 95–619, title II, § 255](/us/pl/95/619/tII/s255), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3238](/us/stat/92/3238), set forth provisions respecting grants to States for adoption and implementation of performance standards, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 97–35, title X, § 1041(b)](/us/pl/97/35/tX/s1041/b), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 621](/us/stat/95/621).
