---
title: "§ 1151. Administrative summary cease and desist orders and summary seizure orders against multiple employer welfare arrangements in financially hazardous condition"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1151"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1151"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 521](/us/pl/93/406/tI/s521), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6605(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tVI/s6605/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 780](/us/stat/124/780).)"
---
# § 1151. Administrative summary cease and desist orders and summary seizure orders against multiple employer welfare arrangements in financially hazardous condition

##### § 1151. Administrative summary cease and desist orders and summary seizure orders against multiple employer welfare arrangements in financially hazardous condition

(a) In general The Secretary may issue a cease and desist (ex parte) order under this subchapter if it appears to the Secretary that the alleged conduct of a multiple employer welfare arrangement described in [section 1002(40) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1002/40), other than a plan or arrangement described in subsection (g), is fraudulent, or creates an immediate danger to the public safety or welfare, or is causing or can be reasonably expected to cause significant, imminent, and irreparable public injury.

(b) Hearing A person that is adversely affected by the issuance of a cease and desist order under subsection (a) may request a hearing by the Secretary regarding such order. The Secretary may require that a proceeding under this section, including all related information and evidence, be conducted in a confidential manner.

(c) Burden of proof The burden of proof in any hearing conducted under subsection (b) shall be on the party requesting the hearing to show cause why the cease and desist order should be set aside.

(d) Determination Based upon the evidence presented at a hearing under subsection (b), the cease and desist order involved may be affirmed, modified, or set aside by the Secretary in whole or in part.

(e) Seizure The Secretary may issue a summary seizure order under this subchapter if it appears that a multiple employer welfare arrangement is in a financially hazardous condition.

(f) Regulations The Secretary may promulgate such regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out this section.

(g) Exception This section shall not apply to any plan or arrangement that does not fall within the meaning of the term “multiple employer welfare arrangement” under [section 1002(40)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1002/40/A).

*([Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 521](/us/pl/93/406/tI/s521), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6605(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tVI/s6605/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 780](/us/stat/124/780).)*
