---
title: "§ 1206. Collective-bargaining agreements"
identifier: "USC-T39-S1206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section1206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 735](/us/stat/84/735).)"
---
# § 1206. Collective-bargaining agreements

##### § 1206. Collective-bargaining agreements

(a) Collective-bargaining agreements between the Postal Service and bargaining representatives recognized under [section 1203 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s1203) shall be effective for not less than 2 years.

(b) Collective-bargaining agreements between the Postal Service and bargaining representatives recognized under section 1203 may include any procedures for resolution by the parties of grievances and adverse actions arising under the agreement, including procedures culminating in binding third-party arbitration, or the parties may adopt any such procedures by mutual agreement in the event of a dispute.

(c) The Postal Service and bargaining representatives recognized under section 1203 may by mutual agreement adopt procedures for the resolution of disputes or impasses arising in the negotiation of a collective-bargaining agreement.

*([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 735](/us/stat/84/735).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–9 of the Board of Governors. See [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375/s15/a), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s101).

#### Use of Funds for Restructuring of Employee Compensation Practices

[Pub. L. 98–396, title III, § 303](/us/pl/98/396/tIII/s303), Aug. 22, 1984, [98 Stat. 1422](/us/stat/98/1422), provided that: “None of the funds made available to the United States Postal Service under this Act [see Tables for classification] or any other Act may be used to restructure employee compensation practices as in effect under the most recently effective collective bargaining agreement under [section 1206 of title 39](/us/usc/t39/s1206), United States Code, except in accordance with the results of procedures set forth in section 1207 of such title.”
