---
title: "§ 4140. Claim filing period"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4140"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4140"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title II, § 210, as added [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 103](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s103), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1111](/us/stat/76/1111).)"
---
# § 4140. Claim filing period

##### § 4140. Claim filing period

Within sixty days after the enactment of this subchapter or of legislation making appropriations to the Commission for payment of administrative expenses incurred in carrying out its functions under this subchapter, whichever date is later, the Commission shall give public notice by publication in the Federal Register of the time when, and the limit of time within which claims may be filed, which limit shall not be more than eighteen months after such publication.

*([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title II, § 210, as added [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 103](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s103), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1111](/us/stat/76/1111).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The enactment of this subchapter, referred to in text, probably means the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 87–846](/us/pl/87/846), which was approved Oct. 22, 1962.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2017i of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Protests Relating to Awards by Commission; Notice by Publication in Federal Register

Notwithstanding the provisions of this section and [section 4141 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4141), receipt and consideration of filed and published protests relating to awards made by the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission which result in modification of such awards shall be certified and paid by the Secretary of the Treasury out of the War Claims Fund in accordance with [section 4143 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4143). See section 615 of [act Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54](/us/act/1950-03-10/ch54), as added by [Pub. L. 94–542](/us/pl/94/542), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2512](/us/stat/90/2512), set out as a note under [section 1623 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s1623), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
