---
title: "§ 1402. Extension of industrial alcohol and internal revenue laws to Virgin Islands"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1936, ch. 830](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch830), title III, § 329(c), [49 Stat. 1957](/us/stat/49/1957).)"
---
# § 1402. Extension of industrial alcohol and internal revenue laws to Virgin Islands

##### § 1402. Extension of industrial alcohol and internal revenue laws to Virgin Islands

Title III of the National Prohibition Act, as amended, and all provisions of the internal revenue laws relating to the enforcement thereof, are extended to and made applicable to the Virgin Islands, from and after August 27, 1935. The Insular Government shall advance to the Treasury of the United States such funds as may be required from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury for the purpose of defraying all expenses incurred by the Treasury Department in connection with the enforcement in the Virgin Islands of the said Title III and regulations promulgated thereunder. The funds so advanced shall be deposited in a separate trust fund in the Treasury of the United States and shall be available to the Treasury Department for the purposes of this section.

*([June 26, 1936, ch. 830](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch830), title III, § 329(c), [49 Stat. 1957](/us/stat/49/1957).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Prohibition Act, as amended, referred to in text, is [act Oct. 28, 1919, ch. 85](/us/act/1919-10-28/ch85), [41 Stat. 305](/us/stat/41/305). Title III of such Act was classified principally to chapter 3 (§ 71 et seq.) of Title 27, Intoxicating Liquors, and was omitted from the Code in view of the incorporation of such provisions in the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, and subsequently into the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

#### Codification

Provisions similar to those comprising this section relating to Puerto Rico are classified to [section 734a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s734a).
