---
title: "§ 10364. Local applications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10364"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10364"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1604](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1604), as added [Pub. L. 102–521, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/521/s4/a/3), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3405](/us/stat/106/3405).)"
---
# § 10364. Local applications

##### § 10364. Local applications

(a) In general

(1) To request funds under this subchapter from a State, the chief executive of a local entity shall submit an application to the office designated under [section 10362(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10362/b).

(2) An application under paragraph (1) shall be considered approved, in whole or in part, by the State not later than 45 days after such application is first received unless the State informs the applicant in writing of specific reasons for disapproval.

(3) The State shall not disapprove any application submitted to the State without first affording the applicant reasonable notice and an opportunity for reconsideration.

(4) If an application under paragraph (1) is approved, the local entity is eligible to receive funds under this subchapter.

(b) Distribution to local entities A State that receives funds under [section 10361 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10361) in a fiscal year shall make such funds available to a local entity with an approved application within 45 days after the Bureau has approved the application submitted by the State and has made funds available to the State. The Director may waive the 45-day requirement in this section upon a finding that the State is unable to satisfy the requirement of the preceding sentence under State statutes.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1604](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1604), as added [Pub. L. 102–521, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/521/s4/a/3), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3405](/us/stat/106/3405).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796cc–3 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796cc–3), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
