---
title: "§ 3451. Purpose"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3451"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3451"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 89–358, § 2](/us/pl/89/358/s2), Mar. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 12](/us/stat/80/12), § 1651; renumbered § 3451, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)"
---
# § 3451. Purpose

##### § 3451. Purpose

The Congress of the United States hereby declares that the education program created by this chapter is for the purpose of (1) enhancing and making more attractive service in the Armed Forces of the United States, (2) extending the benefits of a higher education to qualified and deserving young persons who might not otherwise be able to afford such an education, (3) providing vocational readjustment and restoring lost educational opportunities to those service men and women whose careers have been interrupted or impeded by reason of active duty after January 31, 1955, and (4) aiding such persons in attaining the vocational and educational status which they might normally have aspired to and obtained had they not served their country.

*(Added [Pub. L. 89–358, § 2](/us/pl/89/358/s2), Mar. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 12](/us/stat/80/12), § 1651; renumbered § 3451, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those comprising clauses (3) and (4) of this section were contained in [Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1175](/us/stat/72/1175), which was classified to former [section 1601(c) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1601/c), prior to repeal by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 89–358](/us/pl/89/358/s4/a).

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) renumbered [section 1651 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1651) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 89–358, § 12(a)](/us/pl/89/358/s12/a), Mar. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 28](/us/stat/80/28), provided that: “Except as otherwise specifically provided, the provisions of this Act [see Tables for classification] shall take effect on the date of its enactment [Mar. 3, 1966], but no educational assistance allowance shall be payable under chapter 34 of title 38, United States Code, as added by section 2 of this Act, for any period before June 1, 1966, nor for the month of June 1966, unless (1) the eligible veteran commenced the pursuit of the course of education on or after June 1, 1966, or (2) the pursuit of such course continued through June 30, 1966.”

#### Savings Provision

[Pub. L. 89–358, § 4(b)](/us/pl/89/358/s4/b), Mar. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 23](/us/stat/80/23), provided that: “Nothing in this Act or any amendment or repeal made by it [see Tables for classification], shall affect any right or liability (civil or criminal) which matured under chapter 33 of this title 38 before the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 3, 1966]: and all offenses committed, and all penalties and forfeitures incurred, under any provision of law amended or repealed by this Act, may be punished or recovered, as the case may be, in the same manner and with the same effect as if such amendments or repeals had not been made.”
