---
title: "§ 2506. Functions of National Advisory Council for Career Education"
identifier: "USC-T20-S2506"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section2506"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–482, title III, § 336](/us/pl/94/482/tIII/s336), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2224](/us/stat/90/2224); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)"
---
# § 2506. Functions of National Advisory Council for Career Education

##### § 2506. Functions of National Advisory Council for Career Education

The National Advisory Council for Career Education established pursuant to [section 2612a(g) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s2612a/g) shall, in addition to its duties under that section, advise the Secretary of Education with respect to the implementation of this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 94–482, title III, § 336](/us/pl/94/482/tIII/s336), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2224](/us/stat/90/2224); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2612a of this title](/us/usc/t20/s2612a), referred to in text, has been omitted from the Code.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 30 days after Oct. 12, 1976, except either as specifically otherwise provided or, if not so specifically otherwise provided, effective July 1, 1976, where section provides for authorization of appropriations, see [section 532 of Pub. L. 94–482](/us/pl/94/482/s532), set out as an Effective Date of 1976 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Education” substituted in text for “Commissioner” pursuant to sections 301(a)(1) and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441(a)(1) and 3507 of this title and which transferred functions of Commissioner of Education to Secretary of Education.

#### Termination of Advisory Councils

Advisory councils established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a council established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such council is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a council established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
