---
title: "§ 10286. Expedited payment for public safety officers involved in the prevention, investigation, rescue, or recovery efforts related to a terrorist attack"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10286"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10286"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–56, title VI, § 611](/us/pl/107/56/tVI/s611), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 369](/us/stat/115/369); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1086(b)(2)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1086/b/2), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/126/1968).)"
---
# § 10286. Expedited payment for public safety officers involved in the prevention, investigation, rescue, or recovery efforts related to a terrorist attack

##### § 10286. Expedited payment for public safety officers involved in the prevention, investigation, rescue, or recovery efforts related to a terrorist attack

(a) In general Notwithstanding the limitations of subsection (b) of section 1201 or the provisions of subsections (c), (d), and (e) of such section or section 1202 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3796](/us/usc/t42/s3796), 3796a),11 See References in Text note below. upon certification (containing identification of all eligible payees of benefits pursuant to section 1201 of such Act) by a public agency that a public safety officer employed by such agency or an entity described in section 1204(7)(B) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3796b(7)(B)](/us/usc/t42/s3796b/7/B)) 1 was killed or suffered a catastrophic injury producing permanent and total disability as a direct and proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the line of duty as described in section 1201 of such Act in connection with prevention, investigation, rescue, or recovery efforts related to a terrorist attack, the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall authorize payment to qualified beneficiaries, said payment to be made not later than 30 days after receipt of such certification, benefits described under subpart 1 of part L of such Act ([42 U.S.C. 3796](/us/usc/t42/s3796) et seq.).1

(b) Definitions For purposes of this section, the terms “catastrophic injury”, “public agency”, and “public safety officer” have the same meanings given such terms in section 1204 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3796b](/us/usc/t42/s3796b)).^1

*([Pub. L. 107–56, title VI, § 611](/us/pl/107/56/tVI/s611), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 369](/us/stat/115/369); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1086(b)(2)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1086/b/2), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/126/1968).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197). The reference to subpart 1 of part L of the Act probably means subpart 1 of part L of title I of the Act, which was classified to part A (§ 3796 et seq.) of subchapter XII of chapter 46 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as this part. Sections 1201, 1202, and 1204 of the Act were classified to sections 3796, 3796a, and 3796b, respectively, of Title 42 prior to editorial reclassification as sections 10281, 10282, and 10284, respectively, of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 or USA PATRIOT Act, and not as part of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796c–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796c–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) inserted “or an entity described in section 1204(7)(B) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3796b(7)(B)](/us/usc/t42/s3796b/7/B))” after “employed by such agency”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) effective Jan. 2, 2013, and applicable to matters pending on Jan. 2, 2013, or filed or accruing after that date, with certain exceptions, see [section 1086(d) of Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/d), set out as a note under [section 10251 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10251).
