---
title: "§ 12143. Program requirements"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12143"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12143"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 30303](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s30303), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1845](/us/stat/108/1845).)"
---
# § 12143. Program requirements

##### § 12143. Program requirements

(a) Description An applicant shall include a description of the distinctive factors that contribute to chronic violent crime within the area proposed to be served by the grant. Such factors may include lack of alternative activities and programs for youth, deterioration or lack of public facilities, inadequate public services such as public transportation, street lighting, community-based substance abuse treatment facilities, or employment services offices, and inadequate police or public safety services, equipment, or facilities.

(b) Comprehensive plan An applicant shall include a comprehensive, community-based plan to attack intensively the principal factors identified in subsection (a). Such plans shall describe the specific purposes for which funds are proposed to be used and how each purpose will address specific factors. The plan also shall specify how local nonprofit organizations, government agencies, private businesses, citizens groups, volunteer organizations, and interested citizens will cooperate in carrying out the purposes of the grant.

(c) Evaluation An applicant shall include an evaluation plan by which the success of the plan will be measured, including the articulation of specific, objective indicia of performance, how the indicia will be evaluated, and a projected timetable for carrying out the evaluation.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 30303](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s30303), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1845](/us/stat/108/1845).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13773 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13773), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
