---
title: "§ 12644b. Consolidated application and reporting requirements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12644b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12644b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 185](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s185), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1612](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1612), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1538](/us/stat/123/1538).)"
---
# § 12644b. Consolidated application and reporting requirements

##### § 12644b. Consolidated application and reporting requirements

(a) In general To promote efficiency and eliminate duplicative requirements, the Corporation shall consolidate or modify application procedures and reporting requirements for programs, projects, and activities funded under the national service laws.

(b) Report to Congress Not later than 18 months after the effective date of the Serve America Act, the Corporation shall submit to the authorizing committees a report containing information on the actions taken to consolidate or modify the application procedures and reporting requirements for programs, projects, and activities funded under the national service laws, including a description of the procedures for consultation with recipients of the funding.

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 185](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s185), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1612](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1612), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1538](/us/stat/123/1538).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For the effective date of the Serve America Act, referred to in subsec. (b), as Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 185 of Pub. L. 101–610](/us/pl/101/610/s185) amended sections 1070a–6 and 1087vv of title 20 prior to repeal by [section 122(a) of Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82/s122/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).
