---
title: "§ 7653. Annual reports on prevention of mother-to-child transmission of the HIV infection"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7653"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7653"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–25, title III, § 313](/us/pl/108/25/tIII/s313), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 741](/us/stat/117/741); [Pub. L. 110–293, title III, § 308](/us/pl/110/293/tIII/s308), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2964](/us/stat/122/2964).)"
---
# § 7653. Annual reports on prevention of mother-to-child transmission of the HIV infection

##### § 7653. Annual reports on prevention of mother-to-child transmission of the HIV infection

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after May 27, 2003, and annually thereafter for a period of 10 years, the President shall submit to appropriate congressional committees a report on the activities of relevant executive branch agencies during the reporting period to assist in the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of the HIV infection.

(b) Report elements Each report shall include—

(1) a statement of whether or not all relevant executive branch agencies have met the goal described in [section 7652(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7652/b/1); and

(2) a description of efforts made by the relevant executive branch agencies to expand those activities, including—

(A) information on the number of sites supported for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of the HIV infection;

(B) the specific activities supported;

(C) the number of women tested and counseled; and

(D) the number of women receiving preventative drug therapies.

(c) Reporting period defined In this section, the term “reporting period” means, in the case of the initial report, the period since May 27, 2003, and, in the case of any subsequent report, the period since the date of submission of the most recent report.

*([Pub. L. 108–25, title III, § 313](/us/pl/108/25/tIII/s313), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 741](/us/stat/117/741); [Pub. L. 110–293, title III, § 308](/us/pl/110/293/tIII/s308), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2964](/us/stat/122/2964).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–293](/us/pl/110/293) substituted “10 years” for “5 years”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381), and Memorandum of President of Feb. 23, 2004, 69 F.R. 9509, set out as a note under [section 7611 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7611).
