---
title: "§ 50322. Nominations"
identifier: "USC-T34-S50322"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section50322"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–298, title II, § 202](/us/pl/110/298/tII/s202), July 31, 2008, [122 Stat. 2990](/us/stat/122/2990).)"
---
# § 50322. Nominations

##### § 50322. Nominations

(a) In general A State or local agency head may nominate for a State and Local Law Enforcement Badge an individual—

(1) who is a State or local law enforcement officer working within the agency of the State or local agency head making the nomination; and

(2) who—

(A)

(i) sustained a physical injury while—

(I) engaged in the lawful duties of the individual; and

(II) performing an act characterized as bravery by the State or local agency head making the nomination; and

(ii) put the individual at personal risk when the injury described in clause (i) occurred; or

(B) while not injured, performed an act characterized as bravery by the State or local agency head making the nomination that placed the individual at risk of serious physical injury or death.

(b) Contents A nomination under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) a written narrative, of not more than 2 pages, describing the circumstances under which the nominee performed the act of bravery described in subsection (a) and how the circumstances meet the criteria described in such subsection;

(2) the full name of the nominee;

(3) the home mailing address of the nominee;

(4) the agency in which the nominee served on the date when such nominee performed the act of bravery described in subsection (a);

(5) the occupational title and grade or rank of the nominee;

(6) the field office address of the nominee on the date when such nominee performed the act of bravery described in subsection (a); and

(7) the number of years of government service by the nominee as of the date when such nominee performed the act of bravery described in subsection (a).

(c) Submission deadline A State or local agency head shall submit each nomination under subsection (a) to the Office not later than February 15 of the year following the date on which the nominee performed the act of bravery described in subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 110–298, title II, § 202](/us/pl/110/298/tII/s202), July 31, 2008, [122 Stat. 2990](/us/stat/122/2990).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15252 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15252), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
