---
title: "§ 4115. Collection of training information"
identifier: "USC-T5-S4115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section4115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 438](/us/stat/80/438); [Pub. L. 95–454, title IX, § 906(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/454/tIX/s906/a/2), (3), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/92/1224).)"
---
# § 4115. Collection of training information

##### § 4115. Collection of training information

The Office of Personnel Management, to the extent it considers appropriate in the public interest, may collect information concerning training programs, plans, and the methods inside and outside the Government. The Office, on request, may make the information available to an agency and to Congress.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 438](/us/stat/80/438); [Pub. L. 95–454, title IX, § 906(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/454/tIX/s906/a/2), (3), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/92/1224).)*

In the first sentence, the words “from time to time” are omitted as unnecessary. In the second sentence, the word “appropriate” is omitted as unnecessary.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 2315. | July 7, 1958, Pub. L. 85–507, § 16, 72 Stat. 335. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) substituted “Office of Personnel Management” and “Office” for “Civil Service Commission” and “Commission”, respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Department of Homeland Security

Exception from provisions of this section of those elements of the Department of Homeland Security that are supervised by the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Information Analysis and Infrastructure Protection through the Department’s Assistant Secretary for Information Analysis, see Ex. Ord. No. 13286, § 86, Feb. 28, 2003, 68 F.R. 10632, set out as a note under [section 111 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s111), Domestic Security.

#### Central Intelligence Agency

Exception of Central Intelligence Agency from provisions of this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 10805, Feb. 18, 1959, 24 F.R. 1301, set out as a note under [section 4102 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s4102).
