---
title: "§ 18813. Leveraging smart manufacturing infrastructure at National Laboratories"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18813"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18813"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, § 40533](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tV/s40533), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1069](/us/stat/135/1069).)"
---
# § 18813. Leveraging smart manufacturing infrastructure at National Laboratories

##### § 18813. Leveraging smart manufacturing infrastructure at National Laboratories

(a) Study

(1) In general Not later than 180 days after November 15, 2021, the Secretary shall conduct a study on how the Department can increase access to existing high-performance computing resources in the National Laboratories, particularly for small and medium manufacturers.

(2) Inclusions In identifying ways to increase access to National Laboratories under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—

(A) focus on increasing access to the computing facilities of the National Laboratories; and

(B) ensure that—

(i) the information from the manufacturer is protected; and

(ii) the security of the National Laboratory facility is maintained.

(3) Report Not later than 1 year after November 15, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing the results of the study.

(b) Actions for increased access The Secretary shall facilitate access to the National Laboratories studied under subsection (a) for small and medium manufacturers so that small and medium manufacturers can fully use the high-performance computing resources of the National Laboratories to enhance the manufacturing competitiveness of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, § 40533](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tV/s40533), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1069](/us/stat/135/1069).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), including authority of Secretary of Labor, see [section 18851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18851).
