---
title: "§ 24702. Transportation requested by States, authorities, and other persons"
identifier: "USC-T49-S24702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section24702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title II, § 201(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tII/s201/b/1), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4910](/us/stat/122/4910).)"
---
# § 24702. Transportation requested by States, authorities, and other persons

##### § 24702. Transportation requested by States, authorities, and other persons

(a) Contracts for Transportation.— Amtrak may enter into a contract with a State, a regional or local authority, or another person for Amtrak to operate an intercity rail service or route not included in the national rail passenger transportation system upon such terms as the parties thereto may agree.

(b) Discontinuance.— Upon termination of a contract entered into under this section, or the cessation of financial support under such a contract by either party, Amtrak may discontinue such service or route, notwithstanding any other provision of law.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title II, § 201(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tII/s201/b/1), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4910](/us/stat/122/4910).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 24702, [Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 923](/us/stat/108/923); [Pub. L. 104–287, § 5(48)](/us/pl/104/287/s5/48), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3393](/us/stat/110/3393), related to carrying out plan to improve intercity rail passenger service prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 105–134, title I, § 101(b)](/us/pl/105/134/tI/s101/b), Dec. 2, 1997, [111 Stat. 2572](/us/stat/111/2572).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Access to Amtrak Equipment and Services

[Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title II, § 217](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tII/s217), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4930](/us/stat/122/4930), as amended by [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title XI, § 11006(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tXI/s11006/b/1), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1624](/us/stat/129/1624), provided that: “If a State desires to select or selects an entity other than Amtrak to provide services required for the operation of an intercity passenger train route described in section 24102(7)(D) or 24702 of title 49, United States Code, the State may make an agreement with Amtrak to use facilities and equipment of, or have services provided by, Amtrak under terms agreed to by the State and Amtrak to enable the State to utilize an entity other than Amtrak to provide services required for operation of the route. If the parties cannot agree upon terms, and the Surface Transportation Board finds that access to Amtrak’s facilities or equipment, or the provision of services by Amtrak, is necessary to carry out this provision and that the operation of Amtrak’s other services will not be impaired thereby, the Surface Transportation Board shall, within 120 days after submission of the dispute, issue an order that the facilities and equipment be made available, and that services be provided, by Amtrak, and shall determine reasonable compensation, liability, and other terms for use of the facilities and equipment and provision of the services. Compensation shall be determined, as appropriate, in accordance with the methodology established pursuant to section 209 of this division [[49 U.S.C. 24101](/us/usc/t49/s24101) note], if available.”
