---
title: "§ 3355c. Protection of national security information and other information"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3355c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3355c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–567, title VII, § 705](/us/pl/106/567/tVII/s705), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2861](/us/stat/114/2861); [Pub. L. 110–53, title VI, § 602(1)](/us/pl/110/53/tVI/s602/1), (3), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 335](/us/stat/121/335), 336; [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVIII, § 6824(d)(3)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVIII/s6824/d/3), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3615](/us/stat/136/3615).)"
---
# § 3355c. Protection of national security information and other information

##### § 3355c. Protection of national security information and other information

(a) In general Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the authority of the head of an agency to classify information or to continue the classification of information previously classified by that agency.

(b) Special access programs Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the authority of the head of an agency to grant or deny access to a special access program.

(c) Authorities of Director of National Intelligence Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the authorities of the Director of National Intelligence as the head of the intelligence community, including the Director’s responsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure as required by [section 3024(i) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3024/i).

(d) Exemptions to release of information Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit any exemption or exception to the release to the public under this subchapter of information that is protected under subsection (b) of [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552) (commonly referred to as the “Freedom of Information Act”), or [section 552a of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a) (commonly referred to as the “Privacy Act”).

(e) Withholding information from Congress Nothing in this subchaper shall be construed to authorize the withholding of information from Congress.

*([Pub. L. 106–567, title VII, § 705](/us/pl/106/567/tVII/s705), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2861](/us/stat/114/2861); [Pub. L. 110–53, title VI, § 602(1)](/us/pl/110/53/tVI/s602/1), (3), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 335](/us/stat/121/335), 336; [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVIII, § 6824(d)(3)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVIII/s6824/d/3), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3615](/us/stat/136/3615).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out in a note under [section 3161 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3161).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) substituted “[section 3024(i) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3024/i)” for “section 103(c)(6) of the National Security Act of 1947”.

2007—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53) substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence” in heading and text.
