---
title: "§ 24313. Rail safety system program"
identifier: "USC-T49-S24313"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section24313"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 917](/us/stat/108/917).)"
---
# § 24313. Rail safety system program

##### § 24313. Rail safety system program

(1) periodic analyses of accident information, including primary and secondary causes;

(2) periodic evaluations of the activities of the program, particularly specific steps taken in response to an accident;

(3) periodic reports on amounts spent for occupational health and safety activities of the program;

(4) periodic reports on reduced costs and personal injuries because of accident prevention activities of the program;

(5) periodic reports on direct accident costs, including claims related to accidents; and

(6) reports and evaluations of other information Amtrak considers appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 917](/us/stat/108/917).)*

In this section, before clause (1), the words “No later than January 1, 1979” are omitted as executed. The word “maintain” is substituted for “develop and implement” for clarity. The words “designed to serve as” and “required under this section” are omitted as surplus. In clause (1), the words “if known” are omitted as surplus. In clause (2), the words “undertaken” and “causes” are omitted as surplus. In clauses (3)–(6), the word “reports” is substituted for “identification” for clarity. In clause (3), the word “included” is omitted as surplus. In clause (4), the words “personal injuries” are substituted for “fatalities, and casualties” for consistency in the revised title. The word “activities” is added for clarity. In clause (6), the words “or data” and “necessary or” are omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 24313 | 45:646. | Oct. 30, 1970, Pub. L. 91–518, 84 Stat. 1327, § 807; added Oct. 5, 1978, Pub. L. 95–421, § 13, 92 Stat. 929. |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Comprehensive Rail Safety Review of Amtrak

[Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title II, § 22407](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tII/s22407), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 739](/us/stat/135/739), provided that: “(a) Comprehensive Safety Assessment.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 15, 2021], the Secretary [of Transportation] shall—“(1) conduct a focused review of Amtrak’s safety-related processes and procedures, compliance with safety regulations and requirements, and overall safety culture; and “(2) submit a report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives that includes the findings and recommendations resulting from such assessment. “(b) Plan.—“(1) Initial plan.—Not later than 6 months after the completion of the comprehensive safety assessment under subsection (a)(1), Amtrak shall submit a plan to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives for addressing the findings and recommendations raised in the comprehensive safety assessment. “(2) Annual updates.—Amtrak shall submit annual updates of its progress toward implementing the plan submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) to the committees listed in such paragraph.”
