---
title: "§ 6961. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6961"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6961"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 245](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s245), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3223](/us/stat/108/3223).)"
---
# § 6961. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment

##### § 6961. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment

(a) Authorization The Secretary is authorized to establish in the Department the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment.

(b) Confirmation required If the Secretary establishes the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment authorized under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

(c) Functions of Under Secretary

(1) Principal functions Upon establishment, the Secretary shall delegate to the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment those functions under the jurisdiction of the Department that are related to natural resources and environment (except to the extent those functions are delegated under [section 6932 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6932)).

(2) Additional functions The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment shall perform such other functions and duties as may be required by law or prescribed by the Secretary.

(d) Succession Any official who is serving as Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment on October 13, 1994, and who was appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall not be required to be reappointed under subsection (b) to the successor position authorized under subsection (a) if the Secretary establishes the position, and the official occupies the new position, within 180 days after October 13, 1994 (or such later date set by the Secretary if litigation delays rapid succession).

*([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 245](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s245), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3223](/us/stat/108/3223).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 245 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s245). Subsec. (e) of [section 245 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s245) amended [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees.
