---
title: "§ 20110. Strength in grade: Space Force general officers in a Space Force active status, not on sustained duty"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title V, § 501(c)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tV/s501/c), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 854](/us/stat/139/854).)"
---
# § 20110. Strength in grade: Space Force general officers in a Space Force active status, not on sustained duty

##### § 20110. Strength in grade: Space Force general officers in a Space Force active status, not on sustained duty

(a) Authorized Strength.— The authorized strength of general officers in the Space Force serving in a Space Force active status but not on sustained duty is five.

(b) Exclusions.— The following Space Force general officers shall not be counted for purposes of this section:

(1) Those counted under [section 526 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s526).

(2) Those serving in a joint duty assignment for purposes of chapter 38 of this title, except that the number of officers who may be excluded under this paragraph may not exceed two.

(c) Permanent Grade.— A Space Force general officer may not be reduced in permanent grade because of a reduction in the number authorized under subsection (a).

(d) Temporary Exclusion.— The limitations of subsection (a) do not apply to an officer released from a joint duty assignment or other non-joint active service assignment, but only during the 60-day period beginning on the date the officer departs the joint duty or other active service assignment. The Secretary of Defense may authorize the Secretary of the Air Force to extend the 60-day period by an additional 120 days, except that not more than three Space Force officers may be covered by an extension under this subsection at the same time.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title V, § 501(c)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tV/s501/c), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 854](/us/stat/139/854).)*
