---
title: "§ 1808. Annual asylum fee"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1808"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1808"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–21, title X, § 100009](/us/pl/119/21/tX/s100009), July 4, 2025, [139 Stat. 371](/us/stat/139/371).)"
---
# § 1808. Annual asylum fee

##### § 1808. Annual asylum fee

(a) Fee authorized In addition to any other fee authorized by law, for each calendar year that an alien’s application for asylum remains pending, the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General, as applicable, shall require the payment of a fee, equal to the amount specified in subsection (b), by such alien.

(b) Amount specified

(1) Initial amount For fiscal year 2025, the amount specified in this section shall be the greater of—

(A) $100; or

(B) such amount as the Secretary of Homeland Security may establish, by rule.

(2) Annual adjustments for inflation During fiscal year 2026, and during each subsequent fiscal year, the amount specified in this section shall be equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount of the fee required under this subsection for the most recently concluded fiscal year; and

(B) the product resulting from the multiplication of the amount referred to in subparagraph (A) by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year, rounded down to the nearest dollar.

(c) Disposition of annual asylum fees All of the fees collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) No fee waiver Fees required to be paid under this section shall not be waived or reduced.

*([Pub. L. 119–21, title X, § 100009](/us/pl/119/21/tX/s100009), July 4, 2025, [139 Stat. 371](/us/stat/139/371).)*
