---
title: "§ 1660g. Use of Federal Government facilities and sources of supply"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1660g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1660g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 517](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s517), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1660g. Use of Federal Government facilities and sources of supply

##### § 1660g. Use of Federal Government facilities and sources of supply

(a) In general The Secretary may permit an urban Indian organization that has entered into a contract or received a grant pursuant to this subchapter, in carrying out the contract or grant, to use, in accordance with such terms and conditions for use and maintenance as are agreed on by the Secretary and the urban Indian organizations—

(1) any existing facility under the jurisdiction of the Secretary;

(2) all equipment contained in or pertaining to such an existing facility; and

(3) any other personal property of the Federal Government under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.

(b) Donations Subject to subsection (d), the Secretary may donate to an urban Indian organization that has entered into a contract or received a grant pursuant to this subchapter any personal or real property determined to be excess to the needs of the Service or the General Services Administration for the purposes of carrying out the contract or grant.

(c) Acquisition of property The Secretary may acquire excess or surplus personal or real property of the Federal Government for donation, subject to subsection (d), to an urban Indian organization that has entered into a contract or received a grant pursuant to this subchapter if the Secretary determines that the property is appropriate for use by the urban Indian organization for purposes of the contract or grant.

(d) Priority If the Secretary receives from an urban Indian organization or an Indian tribe or tribal organization a request for a specific item of personal or real property described in subsection (b) or (c), the Secretary shall give priority to the request for donation to the Indian tribe or tribal organization, if the Secretary receives the request from the Indian tribe or tribal organization before the earlier of—

(1) the date on which the Secretary transfers title to the property to the urban Indian organization; and

(2) the date on which the Secretary transfers the property physically to the urban Indian organization.

(e) Executive agency status For purposes of [section 501(a) of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s501/a), an urban Indian organization that has entered into a contract or received a grant pursuant to this subchapter may be considered to be an Executive agency in carrying out the contract or grant.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 517](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s517), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 517 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s517) is based on section 166 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).
