---
title: "§ 2799c. Notifications and reports to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2799c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2799c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), ch. 9, § 94, as added [Pub. L. 102–228, § 2](/us/pl/102/228/s2), Dec. 12, 1991, [105 Stat. 1692](/us/stat/105/1692); amended [Pub. L. 103–199, title IV, § 402(1)](/us/pl/103/199/tIV/s402/1), Dec. 17, 1993, [107 Stat. 2324](/us/stat/107/2324).)"
---
# § 2799c. Notifications and reports to Congress

##### § 2799c. Notifications and reports to Congress

(a) Notifications Not less than 15 days before transferring any defense articles pursuant to [section 2799b(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2799b/a), the President shall notify the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications pursuant to [section 2394–1 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2394–1).

(b) Annual reports Not later than February 1 each year, the President shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate a report that—

(1) lists all transfers made to each recipient NATO/CFE country by the United States under [section 2799b(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2799b/a) during the preceding calendar year;

(2) describes how those transfers further the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of [section 2799 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2799); and

(3) lists, on a country-by-country basis, all transfers to another country of conventional armaments and equipment limited by the CFE Treaty—

(A) by each NATO/CFE country (other than the United States) in implementing the CFE Treaty, and

(B) by each country of the Eastern Group of States Parties in implementing the CFE Treaty.

*([Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), ch. 9, § 94, as added [Pub. L. 102–228, § 2](/us/pl/102/228/s2), Dec. 12, 1991, [105 Stat. 1692](/us/stat/105/1692); amended [Pub. L. 103–199, title IV, § 402(1)](/us/pl/103/199/tIV/s402/1), Dec. 17, 1993, [107 Stat. 2324](/us/stat/107/2324).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—Subsec. (b)(3)(B). [Pub. L. 103–199](/us/pl/103/199) substituted “country of the Eastern Group of States Parties” for “Warsaw Pact country”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under this section delegated to Secretary of Defense by Memorandum of President of the United States, Feb. 13, 1992, 57 F.R. 6663, set out as a note under [section 2799b of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2799b).
