---
title: "§ 334. Allotments to Indians not residing on reservations"
identifier: "USC-T25-S334"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section334"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Feb. 8, 1887, ch. 119, § 4](/us/act/1887-02-08/ch119/s4), [24 Stat. 389](/us/stat/24/389); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 334. Allotments to Indians not residing on reservations

##### § 334. Allotments to Indians not residing on reservations

Where any Indian not residing upon a reservation, or for whose tribe no reservation has been provided by treaty, act of Congress, or executive order, shall make settlement upon any surveyed or unsurveyed lands of the United States not otherwise appropriated, he or she shall be entitled, upon application to the local land office for the district in which the lands are located, to have the same allotted to him or her, and to his or her children, in quantities and manner as provided in this act for Indians residing upon reservations; and when such settlement is made upon unsurveyed lands the grant to such Indians shall be adjusted upon the survey of the lands so as to conform thereto; and patents shall be issued to them for such lands in the manner and with the restrictions as provided in sections 348 and 349 of this title. And the fees to which the officers of such local land office would have been entitled had such lands been entered under the general laws for the disposition of the public lands shall be paid to them, from any moneys in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, upon a statement of an account in their behalf for such fees by the Secretary of the Interior or such officer as he may designate, and a certification of such account to the Secretary of the Treasury by the Secretary of the Interior.

*([Feb. 8, 1887, ch. 119, § 4](/us/act/1887-02-08/ch119/s4), [24 Stat. 389](/us/stat/24/389); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This act, referred to in text, is [act Feb. 8, 1887, ch. 119](/us/act/1887-02-08/ch119), [24 Stat. 388](/us/stat/24/388), and is popularly known as the Indian General Allotment Act. For classification of this act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 331 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s331) and Tables.

The words “provided in sections 348 and 349 of this title”, referred to in text, were in the original “as herein provided”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Permanent Appropriation; Repeals

Effective July 1, 1935, the permanent appropriation provided for in the last sentence of this section was repealed by [act June 26, 1934, ch. 756, § 1](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch756/s1), [48 Stat. 1225](/us/stat/48/1225).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

“Secretary of the Interior or such officer as he may designate” substituted in text for “Commissioner of the General Land Office” on authority of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946, set out in the Appendix to Title 5.
