---
title: "§ 305106. Historic light station sales"
identifier: "USC-T54-S305106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section305106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3220](/us/stat/128/3220).)"
---
# § 305106. Historic light station sales

##### § 305106. Historic light station sales

(a) In General.—

(1) When sale may occur.— If no applicant is approved for the conveyance of a historic light station pursuant to sections 305101 through 305105 of this title, the historic light station shall be offered for sale.

(2) Terms of sale.— Terms of the sales—

(A) shall be developed by the Administrator; and

(B) shall be consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (1) to (4) and (8) of subsection (a), and subsection (b), of [section 305104 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s305104).

(3) Covenants to be included in conveyance documents.— Conveyance documents shall include all necessary covenants to protect the historical integrity of the historic light station and ensure that any Federal aid to navigation located at the historic light station is operated and maintained by the United States for as long as needed for that purpose.

(b) Net Sale Proceeds.—

(1) Disposition and use of funds.— Net sale proceeds from the disposal of a historic light station—

(A) located on public domain land shall be transferred to the National Maritime Heritage Grants Program established under chapter 3087 in the Department of the Interior; and

(B) under the administrative control of the Secretary of Homeland Security—

(i) shall be credited to the Coast Guard’s Operating Expenses appropriation account; and

(ii) shall be available for obligation and expenditure for the maintenance of light stations remaining under the administrative control of the Secretary of Homeland Security.

(2) Availability of funds.— The funds referred to in paragraph (1)(B) shall remain available until expended and shall be available in addition to funds available in the Coast Guard’s Operating Expense appropriation for that purpose.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3220](/us/stat/128/3220).)*

In subsection (b)(1)(B), the words “Secretary of Homeland Security” are substituted for “Coast Guard” because of [6 U.S.C. 112(a)(2)](/us/usc/t6/s112/a/2), 468(b) and (h), 551(d), and 552(d) and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002 (H. Doc. No. 108–16, 108th Cong., 1st Sess. ([6 U.S.C. 542](/us/usc/t6/s542) note)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 305106 | 16 U.S.C. 470w–8. | Pub. L. 89–665, title III, § 309, as added Pub. L. 106–355, § 3, Oct. 24, 2000, 114 Stat. 1389. |
