---
title: "§ 273. Functions; for whom exercised"
identifier: "USC-T15-S273"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section273"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1901, ch. 872, § 3](/us/act/1901-03-03/ch872/s3), [31 Stat. 1449](/us/stat/31/1449); [Pub. L. 92–317, § 3(c)](/us/pl/92/317/s3/c), June 22, 1972, [86 Stat. 235](/us/stat/86/235); [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/a/1), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433).)"
---
# § 273. Functions; for whom exercised

##### § 273. Functions; for whom exercised

The Institute is authorized to exercise its functions for the Government of the United States and for international organizations of which the United States is a member; for governments of friendly countries; for any State or municipal government within the United States; or for any scientific society, educational institution, firm, corporation, or individual within the United States or friendly countries engaged in manufacturing or other pursuits requiring the use of standards or standard measuring instruments: *Provided*, That the exercise of these functions for international organizations, governments of friendly countries and scientific societies, educational institutions, firms, corporations, or individuals therein shall be in coordination with other agencies of the United States Government, in particular the Department of State in respect to foreign entities. All requests for the services of the Institute shall be made in accordance with the rules and regulations herein established.

*([Mar. 3, 1901, ch. 872, § 3](/us/act/1901-03-03/ch872/s3), [31 Stat. 1449](/us/stat/31/1449); [Pub. L. 92–317, § 3(c)](/us/pl/92/317/s3/c), June 22, 1972, [86 Stat. 235](/us/stat/86/235); [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/a/1), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

“Herein”, referred to in last sentence of this section, refers to [act Mar. 3, 1901, ch. 872](/us/act/1901-03-03/ch872), which is classified generally to this chapter.

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) substituted “Institute” for “Bureau” and for “bureau”.

1972—[Pub. L. 92–317](/us/pl/92/317) authorized the Bureau to extend its services to international organizations of which the United States is a member, and for governments of friendly countries in coordination with the Department of State.
