---
title: "§ 290m–8. Performance measures"
identifier: "USC-T22-S290m–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section290m–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 834](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s834), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 97](/us/stat/134/97).)"
---
# § 290m–8. Performance measures

##### § 290m–8. Performance measures

(a) In general The Secretary of the Treasury should direct the representatives of the United States to the Board of Directors of the North American Development Bank to use the voice and vote of the United States to seek to require the Bank to develop performance measures that—

(1) demonstrate how projects and financing approved by the Bank are meeting the Bank’s mission and providing added value to the region near the international land border between the United States and Mexico; and

(2) are reviewed and updated not less frequently than annually.

(b) Report to Congress The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to Congress, with the submission to Congress of the budget of the President for a fiscal year under [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a), a report on progress in imposing the performance measures described in subsection (a) of this section.

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 834](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s834), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 97](/us/stat/134/97).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act, and not as part of part 2 of subtitle D of title V of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, [Pub. L. 103–182](/us/pl/103/182), which enacted this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Policy Goals

[Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 832](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s832), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 97](/us/stat/134/97), provided that: “(a) In General.—To the extent consistent with the mission and scope of the North American Development Bank on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 29, 2020] and pursuant to section 2 of article II of the Charter, the Secretary of the Treasury should direct the representatives of the United States to the Board of Directors of the Bank to use the voice and vote of the United States to give preference to the financing of projects related to environmental infrastructure relating to water pollution, wastewater treatment, water conservation, municipal solid waste, stormwater drainage, non-point pollution, and related matters. “(b) Charter Defined.—In this section, the term ‘Charter’ means the Agreement Concerning the Establishment of a Border Environment Cooperation Commission and a North American Development Bank, signed at Washington and Mexico November 16 and 18, 1993, and entered into force January 1, 1994 (TIAS 12516), between the United States and Mexico.”

#### Efficiencies and Streamlining

[Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 833](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s833), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 97](/us/stat/134/97), provided that: “The Secretary of the Treasury should direct the representatives of the United States to the Board of Directors of the North American Development Bank to use the voice and vote of the United States to seek to require the Bank to develop and implement efficiency improvements to streamline and accelerate the project certification and financing process, including through initiatives such as single certifications for revolving facilities, programmatic certification of similar groups of small projects, expansion of internal authority to approve qualified projects below certain monetary thresholds, and expedited certification for public sector projects subject to lender bidding processes.”
