---
title: "§ 2000gg–2. Remedies and enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000gg–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000gg–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. II, § 104](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s104), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 6085](/us/stat/136/6085).)"
---
# § 2000gg–2. Remedies and enforcement

##### § 2000gg–2. Remedies and enforcement

(a) Employees covered by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in sections 705, 706, 707, 709, 710, and 711 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ([42 U.S.C. 2000e–4](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–4) et seq.) [[42 U.S.C. 2000e–4](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–4), 2000e–5, 2000e–6, 2000e–8, 2000e–9, and 2000e–10] to the Commission, the Attorney General, or any person alleging a violation of title VII of such Act ([42 U.S.C. 2000e](/us/usc/t42/s2000e) et seq.) shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, or any person, respectively, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000gg(3)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg/3/A) except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection.

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988) shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, or any person alleging such practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, or any person alleging such practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(b) Employees covered by Congressional Accountability Act of 1995

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 ([2 U.S.C. 1301](/us/usc/t2/s1301) et seq.) for the purposes of addressing allegations of violations of section 201(a)(1) of such Act ([2 U.S.C. 1311(a)(1)](/us/usc/t2/s1311/a/1)) shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to address an allegation of an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000gg(3)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg/3/B), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection.

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988) for the purposes of addressing allegations of such a violation shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to address allegations of such practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, for purposes of addressing allegations of such a violation, shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to address any allegation of such practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(c) Employees covered by chapter 5 of title 3

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in chapter 5 of title 3 to the President, the Commission, the Merit Systems Protection Board, or any person alleging a violation of section 411(a)(1) of such title shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the President, the Commission, the Board, or any person, respectively, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000gg(3)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg/3/C), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection.

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988) shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the President, the Commission, the Board, or any person alleging such practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the President, the Commission, the Board, or any person alleging such practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(d) Employees covered by Government Employee Rights Act of 1991

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in sections 302 and 304 of the Government Employee Rights Act of 1991 ([42 U.S.C. 2000e–16b](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–16b); 2000e–16c) to the Commission or any person alleging a violation of section 302(a)(1) of such Act ([42 U.S.C. 2000e–16b(a)(1)](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–16b/a/1)) shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission or any person, respectively, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000gg(3)(D) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg/3/D), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection.

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988) shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission or any person alleging such practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission or any person alleging such practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(e) Employees covered by section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ([42 U.S.C. 2000e–16](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–16)) to the Commission, the Attorney General, the Librarian of Congress, or any person alleging a violation of that section shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, the Librarian of Congress, or any person, respectively, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000gg(3)(E) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg/3/E), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection.

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988) shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, the Librarian of Congress, or any person alleging such practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, the Librarian of Congress, or any person alleging such practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(f) Prohibition against retaliation

(1) In general No person shall discriminate against any employee because such employee has opposed any act or practice made unlawful by this chapter or because such employee made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter.

(2) Prohibition against coercion It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any individual in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of such individual having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of such individual having aided or encouraged any other individual in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this chapter.

(3) Remedy The remedies and procedures otherwise provided for under this section shall be available to aggrieved individuals with respect to violations of this subsection.

(g) Limitation Notwithstanding subsections (a)(3), (b)(3), (c)(3), (d)(3), and (e)(3), if an unlawful employment practice involves the provision of a reasonable accommodation pursuant to this chapter or regulations implementing this chapter, damages may not be awarded under [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a) if the covered entity demonstrates good faith efforts, in consultation with the employee with known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions who has informed the covered entity that accommodation is needed, to identify and make a reasonable accommodation that would provide such employee with an equally effective opportunity and would not cause an undue hardship on the operation of the covered entity.

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. II, § 104](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s104), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 6085](/us/stat/136/6085).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VII of the Act is classified generally to subchapter VI (§ 2000e et seq.) of chapter 21 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.

The Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 104–1](/us/pl/104/1), Jan. 23, 1995, [109 Stat. 3](/us/stat/109/3), which is classified principally to chapter 24 (§ 1301 et seq.) of Title 2, The Congress. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note under [section 1301 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1301) and Tables.

The Government Employee Rights Act of 1991, referred to in subsec. (d), is title III of [Pub. L. 102–166](/us/pl/102/166), Nov. 21, 1991, [105 Stat. 1088](/us/stat/105/1088), which is classified generally to sections 2000e–16a to 2000e–16c of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 2000e–16a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–16a/a) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 29, 2022, see [section 109 of div. II of Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s109), set out as a note under [section 2000gg of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg).
