---
title: "§ 9377. Civilian special agents of the Office of Special Investigations: authority to execute warrants and make arrests"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9377"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9377"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title V, § 554(c)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–127, § 9027; renumbered § 9377, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(b)(16)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/b/16), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1833](/us/stat/132/1833).)"
---
# § 9377. Civilian special agents of the Office of Special Investigations: authority to execute warrants and make arrests

##### § 9377. Civilian special agents of the Office of Special Investigations: authority to execute warrants and make arrests

(a) Authority.— The Secretary of the Air Force may authorize any Department of the Air Force civilian employee described in subsection (b) to have the same authority to execute and serve warrants and other processes issued under the authority of the United States and to make arrests without a warrant as may be authorized under [section 1585a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1585a) for special agents of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service.

(b) Agents To Have Authority.— Subsection (a) applies to any employee of the Department of the Air Force who is a special agent of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (or a successor to that office) whose duties include conducting, supervising, or coordinating investigations of criminal activity in programs and operations of the Department of the Air Force.

(c) Guidelines for Exercise of Authority.— The authority provided under subsection (a) shall be exercised in accordance with guidelines prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force and approved by the Secretary of Defense and the Attorney General and any other applicable guidelines prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of Defense, or the Attorney General.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title V, § 554(c)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–127, § 9027; renumbered § 9377, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(b)(16)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/b/16), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1833](/us/stat/132/1833).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 9027 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9027) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
