---
title: "§ 1824a. Export of horses"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1824a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1824a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 521, § 3](/us/act/1891-03-03/ch521/s3), as added [Pub. L. 99–64, title I, § 125](/us/pl/99/64/tI/s125), July 12, 1985, [99 Stat. 156](/us/stat/99/156).)"
---
# § 1824a. Export of horses

##### § 1824a. Export of horses

(a) Restriction on export of horses Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no horse may be exported by sea from the United States, or any of its territories or possessions, unless such horse is part of a consignment of horses with respect to which a waiver has been granted under subsection (b).

(b) Granting of waivers The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, may issue regulations providing for the granting of waivers permitting the export by sea of a specified consignment of horses, if the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, determines that no horse in that consignment is being exported for purposes of slaughter.

(c) Penalties

(1) Criminal penalty Any person who knowingly violates this section or any regulation, order, or license issued under this section shall be fined not more than 5 times the value of the consignment of horses involved or $50,000, whichever is greater, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.

(2) Civil penalty The Secretary of Commerce, after providing notice and an opportunity for an agency hearing on the record, may impose a civil penalty of not to exceed $10,000 for each violation of this section or any regulation, order, or license issued under this section, either in addition to or in lieu of any other liability or penalty which may be imposed.

*([Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 521, § 3](/us/act/1891-03-03/ch521/s3), as added [Pub. L. 99–64, title I, § 125](/us/pl/99/64/tI/s125), July 12, 1985, [99 Stat. 156](/us/stat/99/156).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Horse Protection Act of 1970 which comprises this chapter.

Section was classified to section 466c of the former Appendix to Title 46, prior to the completion of the enactment of Title 46, Shipping, by [Pub. L. 109–304](/us/pl/109/304), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1485](/us/stat/120/1485).

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 7(j) of Pub. L. 96–72](/us/pl/96/72/s7/j), formerly classified to [section 4606(j) of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4606/j), War and National Defense, prior to the amendment of section 7(j) of that Act by [Pub. L. 99–64](/us/pl/99/64), which enacted this section.
