---
title: "§ 4603. Transition"
identifier: "USC-T12-S4603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section4603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, § 1356](/us/pl/102/550/tXIII/s1356), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3971](/us/stat/106/3971).)"
---
# § 4603. Transition

##### § 4603. Transition

Before the expiration of the period ending 18 months after the appointment of the Director under [section 4512 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s4512), any rules and regulations promulgated before October 28, 1992, by the Secretary pursuant to the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act [[12 U.S.C. 1716](/us/usc/t12/s1716) et seq.] or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act [[12 U.S.C. 1451](/us/usc/t12/s1451) et seq.] shall remain in effect unless modified, terminated, superseded, or revoked by operation of law or in accordance with law. Such rules and regulations shall terminate, effective upon the expiration of such period.

*([Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, § 1356](/us/pl/102/550/tXIII/s1356), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3971](/us/stat/106/3971).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act, referred to in text, is title III of [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), [48 Stat. 1252](/us/stat/48/1252), which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 1716 et seq.) of chapter 13 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1716 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1716) and Tables.

The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act, referred to in text, is title III of [Pub. L. 91–351](/us/pl/91/351), July 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 451](/us/stat/84/451), which is classified generally to chapter 11A (§ 1451 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title and Statement of Purpose note set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1451) and Tables.
