---
title: "§ 2909. General provisions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2909"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2909"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–457, title I, § 110](/us/pl/106/457/tI/s110), Nov. 7, 2000, [114 Stat. 1966](/us/stat/114/1966); [Pub. L. 110–114, title V, § 5017(h)](/us/pl/110/114/tV/s5017/h), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1199](/us/stat/121/1199).)"
---
# § 2909. General provisions

##### § 2909. General provisions

(a) Agency consultation and coordination In carrying out this chapter, the Secretary shall, as necessary, consult with, cooperate with, and coordinate its activities with the activities of other Federal departments and agencies.

(b) Cooperative agreements; memoranda of understanding In carrying out this chapter, the Secretary may—

(1) enter into cooperative agreements or contracts with Federal, State, and local government agencies, nongovernmental organizations, and other entities; and

(2) execute such memoranda of understanding as are necessary to reflect the agreements.

(c) Federal agency facilities and personnel Federal agencies may cooperate in carrying out scientific and other programs necessary to carry out this chapter, and may provide facilities and personnel, for the purpose of assisting the Council in carrying out its duties under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 106–457, title I, § 110](/us/pl/106/457/tI/s110), Nov. 7, 2000, [114 Stat. 1966](/us/stat/114/1966); [Pub. L. 110–114, title V, § 5017(h)](/us/pl/110/114/tV/s5017/h), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1199](/us/stat/121/1199).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2007—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 110–114, § 5017(h)(1)](/us/pl/110/114/s5017/h/1), inserted “or contracts” after “agreements” and “, nongovernmental organizations,” after “agencies”.

Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 110–114, § 5017(h)(2)](/us/pl/110/114/s5017/h/2), struck out subsecs. (d) and (e) which related to identification and mapping of dredged material disposal sites and study of bioremediation technology, respectively.
