---
title: "§ 13–1. Authorization of appropriations for funds for basic educational support through parent committees"
identifier: "USC-T25-S13–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section13–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1103(b)](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1103/b), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2316](/us/stat/92/2316).)"
---
# § 13–1. Authorization of appropriations for funds for basic educational support through parent committees

##### § 13–1. Authorization of appropriations for funds for basic educational support through parent committees

Such sums as are needed under [section 13 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s13) are authorized to be appropriated to provide funds for basic educational support through parent committees under the Act of April 16, 1934 [[25 U.S.C. 5342](/us/usc/t25/s5342) et seq.], to those public schools educating Indian students and whose total sum of Federal, State, and local funds is insufficient to bring the education of the enrolled Indian students to a level equal to the level of education provided non-Indian students in the public schools in which they are enrolled where the absence of such support would result in the closing of schools or the reduction in quality of the education program afforded Indian students attending public schools.

*([Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1103(b)](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1103/b), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2316](/us/stat/92/2316).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of April 16, 1934, referred to in text, is [act Apr. 16, 1934, ch. 147](/us/act/1934-04-16/ch147), [48 Stat. 596](/us/stat/48/596), popularly known as the Johnson-O’Malley Act, which is classified generally to section 5342 et seq. of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1978, see [section 1530(a) of Pub. L. 95–561](/us/pl/95/561/s1530/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 1221e–3 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1221e–3), Education.
