---
title: "§ 557. Existing franchises"
identifier: "USC-T47-S557"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section557"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VI, § 637, as added [Pub. L. 98–549, § 2](/us/pl/98/549/s2), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2800](/us/stat/98/2800); amended [Pub. L. 104–104, § 3(d)(3)](/us/pl/104/104/s3/d/3), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 61](/us/stat/110/61).)"
---
# § 557. Existing franchises

##### § 557. Existing franchises

(a) The provisions of—

shall remain in effect, subject to the express provisions of this subchapter, and for not longer than the then current remaining term of the franchise as such franchise existed on such effective date.

(1) any franchise in effect on the effective date of this subchapter, including any such provisions which relate to the designation, use, or support for the use of channel capacity for public, educational, or governmental use, and

(2) any law of any State (as defined in [section 153 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s153)) in effect on October 30, 1984, or any regulation promulgated pursuant to such law, which relates to such designation, use or support of such channel capacity,

(b) For purposes of subsection (a) and other provisions of this subchapter, a franchise shall be considered in effect on the effective date of this subchapter if such franchise was granted on or before such effective date.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VI, § 637, as added [Pub. L. 98–549, § 2](/us/pl/98/549/s2), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2800](/us/stat/98/2800); amended [Pub. L. 104–104, § 3(d)(3)](/us/pl/104/104/s3/d/3), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 61](/us/stat/110/61).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For “the effective date of this subchapter” and “such effective date”, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), as 60 days after Oct. 30, 1984, except where otherwise expressly provided, see [section 9(a) of Pub. L. 98–549](/us/pl/98/549/s9/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 521 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s521).

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 104–104](/us/pl/104/104) substituted “section 153” for “section 153(v)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 60 days after Oct. 30, 1984, except where otherwise expressly provided, see [section 9(a) of Pub. L. 98–549](/us/pl/98/549/s9/a), set out as a note under [section 521 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s521).
