---
title: "§ 10305. Manner of signing agreement"
identifier: "USC-T46-S10305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section10305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 563](/us/stat/97/563); [Pub. L. 103–206, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/103/206/tIV/s403), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2436](/us/stat/107/2436).)"
---
# § 10305. Manner of signing agreement

##### § 10305. Manner of signing agreement

(1) first by the master and dated at that time, after which each seaman shall sign; and

(2) in the presence of the master or individual in charge.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 563](/us/stat/97/563); [Pub. L. 103–206, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/103/206/tIV/s403), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2436](/us/stat/107/2436).)*

Section 10305 describes the procedures for signing the shipping agreement, and for keeping official records of the agreement. It also requires that the agreement include a statement that the seaman understand its provisions, and did so while sober.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 10305 | 46:565 |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—[Pub. L. 103–206](/us/pl/103/206) struck out “(a)” before “The agreement”, substituted “the master or individual in charge” for “a shipping commissioner” in par. (2), and struck out subsecs. (b) and (c) which read as follows:

“(b) When the crew is first engaged, the agreement shall be signed in duplicate. One of the copies shall be retained by the shipping commissioner. The other copy shall contain space for the description and signatures of seamen engaged subsequent to the first making of the agreement, and shall be delivered to the master.

“(c) An agreement signed before a shipping commissioner shall be acknowledged and signed by the commissioner on the agreement in the manner and form prescribed by regulation. The acknowledgment and certification shall include a statement by the commissioner that the seaman—

“(1) has read the agreement;

“(2) is acquainted with and understands its conditions; and

“(3) has signed it freely and voluntarily when sober.”
