---
title: "§ 10226. Personnel and administrative authority"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10226"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10226"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 807](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s807), as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609B(g)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609B/g), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2094](/us/stat/98/2094); amended [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(210)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/210), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4329](/us/stat/136/4329).)"
---
# § 10226. Personnel and administrative authority

##### § 10226. Personnel and administrative authority

(a) Officers and employees of certain Federal agencies; employment; compensation The Assistant Attorney General, the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the Director of the Institute, and the Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics are authorized to select, appoint, employ, and fix compensation of such officers and employees as shall be necessary to carry out the powers and duties of the Office, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, respectively, under this chapter.

(b) Use of available services; reimbursement The Office, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, and the Bureau of Justice Statistics are authorized, on a reimbursable basis when appropriate, to use the available services, equipment, personnel, and facilities of Federal, State, and local agencies to the extent deemed appropriate after giving due consideration to the effectiveness of such existing services, equipment, personnel, and facilities.

(c) Other Federal agency performance of functions under this chapter; reimbursement The Office, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, and the Bureau of Justice Statistics may arrange with and reimburse the heads of other Federal departments and agencies for the performance of any of the functions under this chapter.

(d) Experts and consultants; compensation The Office, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, and the Bureau of Justice Statistics may procure the services of experts and consultants in accordance with [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109), relating to appointments in the Federal service, at rates of compensation for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the rate of pay payable from time to time for GS–18 of the General Schedule under [section 5332 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332).

(e) Advisory committees; compensation and travel expenses of committee members The Office, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, and the Bureau of Justice Statistics are authorized to appoint, without regard to the provisions of title 5, advisory committees to advise them with respect to the administration of this chapter as they deem necessary. Such committees shall be subject to chapter 10 of title 5. Members of such committees not otherwise in the employ of the United States, while engaged in advising or attending meetings of such committees, shall be compensated at rates to be fixed by the Office but not to exceed the daily equivalent of the rate of pay payable from time to time for GS–18 of the General Schedule under [section 5332 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), and while away from home or regular place of business they may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as authorized by section 5703 of such title 5 for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.

(f) Payments; installments; advances or reimbursement; transportation and subsistence expenses for attendance at conferences or other assemblages Payments under this chapter may be made in installments, and in advance or by way of reimbursement, as may be determined by the Office, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, or the Bureau of Justice Statistics, and may be used to pay the transportation and subsistence expenses of persons attending conferences or other assemblages notwithstanding [section 1345 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1345).

(g) Voluntary services; status as Federal employees; exceptions The Office, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, and the Bureau of Justice Statistics are authorized to accept and employ, in carrying out the provisions of this chapter, voluntary and uncompensated services notwithstanding [section 1342 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1342). Such individuals shall not be considered Federal employees except for purposes of chapter 81 of title 5 with respect to job-incurred disability and title 28 with respect to tort claims.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 807](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s807), as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609B(g)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609B/g), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2094](/us/stat/98/2094); amended [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(210)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/210), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4329](/us/stat/136/4329).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3788 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3788), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 807 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s807) was classified to [section 3787 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3787), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to repeal by [section 609B(e) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609B/e).

Provisions similar to subsecs. (b), (c), (d) to (f), and (g) of this section were contained in sections 3789, 3789b(a), 3789c(a) to (c), and 3789h of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, respectively, prior to repeal by [section 609B(e) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609B/e).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “chapter 10 of title 5.” for “the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 609AA(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609AA/a), set out as a note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).

#### References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay Rates

References in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of [Pub. L. 101–509](/us/pl/101/509), set out in a note under [section 5376 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376).
