---
title: "§ 10462. Applications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10462"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10462"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2102](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2102), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40231(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40231/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1933](/us/stat/108/1933); amended [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1101(a)(3)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1101/a/3), (b)(3), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1492](/us/stat/114/1492), 1493; [Pub. L. 109–162, title I, § 102(c)](/us/pl/109/162/tI/s102/c), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 2977](/us/stat/119/2977); [Pub. L. 113–4, title I, § 102(a"
---
# § 10462. Applications

##### § 10462. Applications

(a) Application An eligible grantee shall submit an application to the Attorney General that—

(1) contains a certification by the chief executive officer of the State, Indian tribal government, court, or local government entity that the conditions of [section 10461(c) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10461/c) are met or will be met within the later of—

(A) the period ending on the date on which the next session of the State or Indian tribal legislature ends; or

(B) 2 years of September 13, 1994 or, in the case of the condition set forth in subsection 11 So in original. Probably should be “section”. 10461(c)(4) 22 See References in Text note below. of this title, the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on October 28, 2000;

(2) describes plans to further the purposes stated in [section 10461(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10461/a);

(3) identifies the agency or office or groups of agencies or offices responsible for carrying out the program; and

(4) includes documentation from victim service providers and, as appropriate, population specific organizations demonstrating their participation in developing the application, and identifying such programs in which such groups will be consulted for development and implementation.

(b) Priority In awarding grants under this subchapter, the Attorney General shall give priority to applicants that—

(1) do not currently provide for centralized handling of cases involving domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking by police, prosecutors, and courts;

(2) demonstrate a commitment to strong enforcement of laws, and prosecution of cases, involving domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including the enforcement of protection orders from other States and jurisdictions (including tribal jurisdictions);

(3) have established cooperative agreements or can demonstrate effective ongoing collaborative arrangements with neighboring jurisdictions to facilitate the enforcement of protection orders from other States and jurisdictions (including tribal jurisdictions); and

(4) in applications describing plans to further the purposes stated in paragraph (4) or (7) of [section 10461(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10461/b), will give priority to using the grant to develop and install data collection and communication systems, including computerized systems, and training on how to use these systems effectively to link police, prosecutors, courts, and tribal jurisdictions for the purpose of identifying and tracking protection orders and violations of protection orders, in those jurisdictions where such systems do not exist or are not fully effective.

(c) Dissemination of information The Attorney General shall annually compile and broadly disseminate (including through electronic publication) information about successful data collection and communication systems that meet the purposes described in this section. Such dissemination shall target States, State and local courts, Indian tribal governments, and units of local government.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2102](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2102), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40231(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40231/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1933](/us/stat/108/1933); amended [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1101(a)(3)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1101/a/3), (b)(3), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1492](/us/stat/114/1492), 1493; [Pub. L. 109–162, title I, § 102(c)](/us/pl/109/162/tI/s102/c), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 2977](/us/stat/119/2977); [Pub. L. 113–4, title I, § 102(a)(2)](/us/pl/113/4/tI/s102/a/2), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 72](/us/stat/127/72).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sub[section 10461(c)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10461/c/4), referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(B), which probably should be a reference to “[section 10461(c)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10461/c/4)”, was redesignated [section 10461(c)(1)(D) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10461/c/1/D) by [Pub. L. 113–4, title I, § 102(a)(1)(B)(vi)](/us/pl/113/4/tI/s102/a/1/B/vi), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 72](/us/stat/127/72).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796hh–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796hh–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 102(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/113/4/s102/a/2/A), inserted “court,” after “tribal government,” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 102(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/113/4/s102/a/2/B), substituted “victim service providers and, as appropriate, population specific organizations” for “nonprofit, private sexual assault and domestic violence programs”.

2006—Subsec. (b)(1), (2). [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) inserted “, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking” after “involving domestic violence”.

2000—Subsec. (a)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(b)(3)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/b/3), inserted before semicolon “or, in the case of the condition set forth in sub[section 3796hh(c)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3796hh/c/4), the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on October 28, 2000”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(a)(3)(A)(i)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/a/3/A/i), struck out “and” at the end.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(a)(3)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/a/3/A/ii), substituted “, including the enforcement of protection orders from other States and jurisdictions (including tribal jurisdictions);” for period at end.

Subsec. (b)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(a)(3)(A)(iii)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/a/3/A/iii), added pars. (3) and (4).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(a)(3)(B)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/a/3/B), added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4/s4), set out as a note under [section 2261 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2261), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) not effective until the beginning of fiscal year 2007, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s4), set out as a note under [section 10261 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10261).
