---
title: "§ 1121. Findings; purposes; consultation; survey"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1121"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1121"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/89/329/tVI/s601), as added [Pub. L. 105–244, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/105/244/tVI/s601), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1774](/us/stat/112/1774); amended [Pub. L. 110–315, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/110/315/tVI/s601), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3333](/us/stat/122/3333).)"
---
# § 1121. Findings; purposes; consultation; survey

##### § 1121. Findings; purposes; consultation; survey

(a) Findings Congress finds as follows:

(1) The security, stability, and economic vitality of the United States in a complex global era depend upon American experts in and citizens knowledgeable about world regions, foreign languages, and international affairs, as well as upon a strong research base in these areas.

(2) Advances in communications technology and the growth of regional and global problems make knowledge of other countries and the ability to communicate in other languages more essential to the promotion of mutual understanding and cooperation among nations and their peoples.

(3) Dramatic changes in the world’s geopolitical and economic landscapes are creating needs for American expertise and knowledge about a greater diversity of less commonly taught foreign languages and nations of the world.

(4) Systematic efforts are necessary to enhance the capacity of institutions of higher education in the United States for—

(A) producing graduates with international and foreign language expertise and knowledge; and

(B) research regarding such expertise and knowledge.

(5) Cooperative efforts among the Federal Government, institutions of higher education, and the private sector are necessary to promote the generation and dissemination of information about world regions, foreign languages, and international affairs throughout education, government, business, civic, and nonprofit sectors in the United States.

(b) Purposes The purposes of this part are—

(1)

(A) to support centers, programs, and fellowships in institutions of higher education in the United States for producing increased numbers of trained personnel and research in foreign languages, area studies, and other international studies;

(B) to develop a pool of international experts to meet national needs;

(C) to develop and validate specialized materials and techniques for foreign language acquisition and fluency, emphasizing (but not limited to) the less commonly taught languages;

(D) to promote access to research and training overseas, including through linkages with overseas institutions; and

(E) to advance the internationalization of a variety of disciplines throughout undergraduate and graduate education;

(2) to support cooperative efforts promoting access to and the dissemination of international and foreign language knowledge, teaching materials, and research, throughout education, government, business, civic, and nonprofit sectors in the United States, through the use of advanced technologies; and

(3) to coordinate the programs of the Federal Government in the areas of foreign language, area studies, and other international studies, including professional international affairs education and research.

(c) Consultation

(1) In general The Secretary shall, prior to requesting applications for funding under this subchapter during each grant cycle, consult with and receive recommendations regarding national need for expertise in foreign languages and world regions from the head officials of a wide range of Federal agencies.

(2) Considering recommendations; providing information The Secretary—

(A) may take into account the recommendations described in paragraph (1); and

(B) shall—

(i) provide information collected under paragraph (1) when requesting applications for funding under this subchapter; and

(ii) make available to applicants a list of areas identified as areas of national need.

(d) Survey The Secretary shall assist grantees in developing a survey to administer to students who have completed programs under this subchapter to determine postgraduate employment, education, or training. All grantees, where applicable, shall administer such survey once every two years and report survey results to the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/89/329/tVI/s601), as added [Pub. L. 105–244, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/105/244/tVI/s601), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1774](/us/stat/112/1774); amended [Pub. L. 110–315, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/110/315/tVI/s601), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3333](/us/stat/122/3333).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1121, [Pub. L. 89–329, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/89/329/tVI/s601), as added [Pub. L. 96–374, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/96/374/tVI/s601/a), Oct. 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 1464](/us/stat/94/1464); amended [Pub. L. 99–498, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/99/498/tVI/s601), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1514](/us/stat/100/1514); [Pub. L. 102–325, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/102/325/tVI/s601), July 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 720](/us/stat/106/720), set out findings of Congress and purpose of this part, prior to the general amendment of this part by [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244).

Another prior section 1121, [Pub. L. 89–329, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/89/329/tVI/s601), Nov. 8, 1965, [79 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/79/1261); [Pub. L. 89–752, § 3(b)](/us/pl/89/752/s3/b), Nov. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 1241](/us/stat/80/1241); [Pub. L. 90–575, title II](/us/pl/90/575/tII), §§ 241, 242(a), Oct. 16, 1968, [82 Stat. 1041](/us/stat/82/1041); [Pub. L. 92–318, title I, § 151(a)](/us/pl/92/318/tI/s151/a), June 23, 1972, [86 Stat. 288](/us/stat/86/288); [Pub. L. 94–482, title I, § 156](/us/pl/94/482/tI/s156), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2155](/us/stat/90/2155); [Pub. L. 96–49, § 7](/us/pl/96/49/s7), Aug. 13, 1979, [93 Stat. 353](/us/stat/93/353), set out the Congressional statement of purpose and the authorization of appropriations for the program of equipment grants to institutions of higher education, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 96–374](/us/pl/96/374).

#### Amendments

2008—[Pub. L. 110–315, § 601(1)](/us/pl/110/315/s601/1), substituted “; purposes; consultation; survey” for “and purposes” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 110–315, § 601(2)](/us/pl/110/315/s601/2), struck out “post-Cold War” after “Dramatic”.

Subsec. (b)(1)(D). [Pub. L. 110–315, § 601(3)](/us/pl/110/315/s601/3), inserted “, including through linkages with overseas institutions” before semicolon.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 110–315, § 601(4)](/us/pl/110/315/s601/4), added subsecs. (c) and (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Part effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 1998 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

#### National Endowment for International Studies

[Pub. L. 99–498, title XIII, § 1302](/us/pl/99/498/tXIII/s1302), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1580](/us/stat/100/1580), as amended by [Pub. L. 100–50, § 23(2)](/us/pl/100/50/s23/2), June 3, 1987, [101 Stat. 362](/us/stat/101/362), required Secretary of Education, in consultation with Director of United States Information Agency, Director of the Agency for International Development, Secretary of State, and Secretary of Defense, to conduct a study on establishment of a National Endowment for International Studies, such study to develop a program, a funding plan, and priorities for such an Endowment, with the Secretary to prepare and submit to Congress, not later than one year after Oct. 17, 1986, a report on the study, together with such recommendations, including recommendations for legislation, as the Secretary deemed appropriate, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 105–332, § 6(a)](/us/pl/105/332/s6/a), Oct. 31, 1998, [112 Stat. 3127](/us/stat/112/3127).
