---
title: "§ 2120. Online access of founding fathers documents"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2120"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2120"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–404, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/404/s4/a), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4283](/us/stat/122/4283).)"
---
# § 2120. Online access of founding fathers documents

##### § 2120. Online access of founding fathers documents

(1) George Washington;

(2) Alexander Hamilton;

(3) Thomas Jefferson;

(4) Benjamin Franklin;

(5) John Adams;

(6) James Madison; and

(7) other prominent historical figures, as determined appropriate by the Archivist of the United States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–404, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/404/s4/a), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4283](/us/stat/122/4283).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Funds

[Pub. L. 110–404, § 4(b)](/us/pl/110/404/s4/b), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4283](/us/stat/122/4283), provided that: “(1) In general.—The Archivist of the United States, in the role as chairman of the National Historical Publications and Records Commission may enter into cooperative agreements pursuant to [section 6305 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s6305), United States Code, that involve the transfer of funds from the National Historical Publications and Records Commission to State and local governments, tribal governments, other public entities, educational institutions, or private nonprofit organizations for the public purpose of carrying out [section 2120 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s2120), United States Codes [sic]. “(2) Report.—Not later than December 31st of each year, the Archivist of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives a report on the provisions, amount, and duration of each cooperative agreement entered into as authorized by paragraph (1) during the preceding fiscal year.”
