---
title: "§ 7312. Special medical advisory group"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7312"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7312"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 401(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s401/a/3), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 215](/us/stat/105/215); amended [Pub. L. 102–405, title III, § 302(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/tIII/s302/c/1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1984](/us/stat/106/1984); [Pub. L. 103–446, title XII, § 1201(e)(20)](/us/pl/103/446/tXII/s1201/e/20), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4686](/us/stat/108/4686); [Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, § 403(c)(5)](/us/pl/106/419/tIV/s403/c/5), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1864](/us/stat/114/1"
---
# § 7312. Special medical advisory group

##### § 7312. Special medical advisory group

(a) The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the special medical advisory group. The advisory group shall advise the Secretary, through the Under Secretary for Health, and the Under Secretary for Health directly, relative to the care and treatment of disabled veterans and other matters pertinent to the Administration.

(b) Members of the special medical advisory group shall be appointed by the Secretary upon the recommendation of the Under Secretary for Health. The special medical advisory group shall be composed of—

(1) members of the medical, dental, podiatric, optometric, and allied scientific professions;

(2) other individuals considered by the Under Secretary for Health to have experience pertinent to the mission of the Administration; and

(3) a disabled veteran.

(c) The special medical advisory group shall meet on a regular basis as prescribed by the Secretary. The number, terms of service, pay, and allowances of members of the advisory group shall be prescribed in accordance with existing law and regulations.

(d) Not later than February 1 of each year, the special medical advisory group shall submit to the Secretary and the Congress a report on the activities of the advisory group during the preceding fiscal year. No report shall be required under this subsection after December 31, 2004.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 401(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s401/a/3), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 215](/us/stat/105/215); amended [Pub. L. 102–405, title III, § 302(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/tIII/s302/c/1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1984](/us/stat/106/1984); [Pub. L. 103–446, title XII, § 1201(e)(20)](/us/pl/103/446/tXII/s1201/e/20), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4686](/us/stat/108/4686); [Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, § 403(c)(5)](/us/pl/106/419/tIV/s403/c/5), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1864](/us/stat/114/1864).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2000—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 106–419](/us/pl/106/419) inserted at end “No report shall be required under this subsection after December 31, 2004.”

1994—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 103–446](/us/pl/103/446) substituted “the activities of the advisory group” for “the advisory groups activities”.

1992—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 102–405](/us/pl/102/405) substituted “Under Secretary for Health” for “Chief Medical Director” wherever appearing.
