---
title: "§ 740. Omitted"
identifier: "USC-T50-S740"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section740"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
---
# § 740. Omitted

##### § 740. Omitted

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section, [act May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 12](/us/act/1950-05-05/ch169/s12), [64 Stat. 147](/us/stat/64/147), which authorized the Judge Advocate General of any of the armed forces to grant a new trial, vacate a sentence, restore rights and property, and substitute an administrative discharge for a dismissal or for a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge in any court-martial case for offenses committed during World War II upon application made within one year after termination of the war or after final disposition upon initial appellate review, whichever was the later, limited new trial applications to one as to any one case, and provided that World War II was deemed to have ended as of May 31, 1951.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Executive Order No. 10190

Ex. Ord. No. 10190, Dec. 6, 1950, 15 F.R. 8711, provided for the petition to the Judge Advocate General of the Navy or to the General Counsel of the Treasury Department, in respect to violations of Navy or Coast Guard disciplinary laws committed between Dec. 7, 1941 and May 30, 1951, for a new trial, the vacatur of sentence and restoration of rights and property, or the substitution of an administrative discharge for a dismissal, dishonorable discharge, or bad-conduct discharge; limited such petition to within one year after final disposition of the case upon initial appellate review or to any time before May 31, 1952 (whichever was the later date); prohibited submission of more than one such petition in any one case and submission after death of an accused; specified the ground for relief and the form and contents of the petition; permitted oral agreement; prescribed the rules for a hearing; authorized additional investigation; required the action granting or denying a remedy to be in writing and published; provided the procedure for a new trial; and specified the effect of a new trial upon the prior trial and sentence.
