---
title: "§ 300mm–51. Research regarding certain health conditions related to September 11 terrorist attacks"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300mm–51"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300mm–51"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3341, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3656](/us/stat/124/3656); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title VII, § 7702(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tVII/s7702/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5966](/us/stat/136/5966).)"
---
# § 300mm–51. Research regarding certain health conditions related to September 11 terrorist attacks

##### § 300mm–51. Research regarding certain health conditions related to September 11 terrorist attacks

(a) In general The WTC Program Administrator shall conduct or support—

The Administrator may provide such support through continuation and expansion of research that was initiated before January 2, 2011, and through the World Trade Center Health Registry (referred to in [section 300mm–52 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–52)), through a Clinical Center of Excellence, or through a Data Center.

(1) research on physical and mental health conditions that may be related to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks;

(2) research on diagnosing WTC-related health conditions, in the case of conditions for which there has been diagnostic uncertainty; and

(3) research on treating WTC-related health conditions, in the case of conditions for which there has been treatment uncertainty.

(b) Types of research The research under subsection (a)(1) shall include epidemiologic and other research studies on WTC-related health conditions or emerging conditions—

(1) among enrolled WTC responders and certified-eligible WTC survivors under treatment and individuals who were exposed within a geographic area related to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in a manner similar to the exposure within such geographic area experienced by individuals meeting the eligibility criteria under section 300mm–21(a)(2) or 300mm–31(a)(1)(B) of this title; and

(2) in sampled populations outside the New York City disaster area in Manhattan as far north as 14th Street and in Brooklyn, along with control populations, to identify potential for long-term adverse health effects in less exposed populations.

(c) Research cohort for emerging health impacts on youth

(1) In general The WTC Program Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, shall establish a research cohort of sufficient size to conduct future research studies on the health and educational impacts of exposure to airborne toxins, or any other hazard or adverse condition, resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, including on the population of individuals who were 21 years of age or younger at the time of exposure, including such individuals who are screening-eligible WTC survivors or certified-eligible WTC survivors.

(2) Populations studied The research cohort under paragraph (1) may include—

(A) individuals who, on September 11, 2001, were 21 years of age or younger and were—

(i) outside the New York City disaster area; and

(ii) in—

(I) the area of Manhattan not further north than 14th Street; or

(II) Brooklyn; and

(B) control populations, including populations of individuals who, on September 11, 2001, were 21 years of age or younger.

(d) Consultation The WTC Program Administrator shall carry out this section in consultation with the WTC Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee.

(e) Application of privacy and human subject protections The privacy and human subject protections applicable to research conducted under this section shall not be less than such protections applicable to research conducted or funded by the Department of Health and Human Services.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3341, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3656](/us/stat/124/3656); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title VII, § 7702(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tVII/s7702/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5966](/us/stat/136/5966).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 7702(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/117/328/s7702/a/1/A), substituted “The WTC” for “With respect to individuals, including enrolled WTC responders and certified-eligible WTC survivors, receiving monitoring or treatment under part B, the WTC” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 7702(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/117/328/s7702/a/1/B), struck out “of such individuals” after “WTC-related health conditions”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 7702(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/328/s7702/a/2), inserted “and individuals who were exposed within a geographic area related to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in a manner similar to the exposure within such geographic area experienced by individuals meeting the eligibility criteria under section 300mm–21(a)(2) or 300mm–31(a)(1)(B) of this title” after “treatment”.

Subsecs. (c) to (e). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 7702(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/328/s7702/a/3), (4), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsecs. (c) and (d) as (d) and (e), respectively.
