---
title: "§ 12461. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12461"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12461"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41301](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41301), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/109/162/tIV/s401), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3017](/us/stat/119/3017).)"
---
# § 12461. Findings

##### § 12461. Findings

(1) the former United States Advisory Board on Child Abuse suggests that domestic violence may be the single major precursor to child abuse and neglect fatalities in this country;

(2) studies suggest that as many as 10,000,000 children witness domestic violence every year;

(3) studies suggest that among children and teenagers, recent exposure to violence in the home was a significant factor in predicting a child’s violent behavior;

(4) a study by the Nurse-Family Partnership found that children whose parents did not participate in home visitation programs that provided coaching in parenting skills, advice and support, were almost 5 times more likely to be abused in their first 2 years of life;

(5) a child’s exposure to domestic violence seems to pose the greatest independent risk for being the victim of any act of partner violence as an adult;

(6) children exposed to domestic violence are more likely to believe that using violence is an effective means of getting one’s needs met and managing conflict in close relationships;

(7) children exposed to abusive parenting, harsh or erratic discipline, or domestic violence are at increased risk for juvenile crime; and

(8) in a national survey of more than 6,000 American families, 50 percent of men who frequently assaulted their wives also frequently abused their children.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41301](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41301), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/109/162/tIV/s401), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3017](/us/stat/119/3017).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14043d of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14043d), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
