---
title: "§ 1620. Acceptance of money by United States officers 11 See Codification note below"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1620"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1620"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 620, [46 Stat. 758](/us/stat/46/758).)"
---
# § 1620. Acceptance of money by United States officers 11 See Codification note below

##### § 1620. Acceptance of money by United States officers 11 See Codification note below.

Any officer of the United States who directly or indirectly receives, accepts, or contracts for any portion of the money which may accrue to any person making such ^1 detection and seizure, or furnishing such ^1 information, shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000, or by imprisonment for not more than two years, or both, and shall be thereafter ineligible to any office of honor, trust, or emolument. Any such person who pays to any such officer, or to any person for the use of such officer, any portion of such money, or anything of value for or because of such money, shall have a right of action against such officer, or his legal representatives, or against such person, or his legal representatives, and shall be entitled to recover the money so paid or the thing of value so given.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 620, [46 Stat. 758](/us/stat/46/758).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

As enacted by act June 17, 1930, the catchline for this section was “Same—United States officers”, as this section was intended to be read as a continuation of the provisions introduced in [section 1619 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1619), and the use of “such” in the first sentence is similarly meant to refer back to section 1619. For text of [section 1619 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1619) prior to its general amendment by [Pub. L. 99–570](/us/pl/99/570), see 1986 Amendment note under that section.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 620](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s620), [42 Stat. 988](/us/stat/42/988). That section was superseded by section 620 of act June 17, 1930, comprising this section, and repealed by section 651(a)(1) of the 1930 act.

Provisions somewhat similar to those in this section but excepting cases of smuggling were contained in [act June 22, 1874, ch. 391, § 7](/us/act/1874-06-22/ch391/s7), [18 Stat. 187](/us/stat/18/187), prior to repeal by [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 643](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s643), [42 Stat. 989](/us/stat/42/989).
