---
title: "§ 151906. Restrictions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S151906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section151906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1409](/us/stat/112/1409).)"
---
# § 151906. Restrictions

##### § 151906. Restrictions

(a) Stock and Dividends.— The corporation may not issue stock or declare or pay a dividend.

(b) Political Activities.— The corporation or a director or officer as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or candidate for public office.

(c) Distribution of Income or Assets.— The income or assets of the corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a director, officer, or member during the life of the corporation or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the payment of compensation to an officer in an amount approved by the board of directors.

(d) Loans.— The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a director, officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan or advance to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or advance until it is repaid.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1409](/us/stat/112/1409).)*

In subsection (a), the words “any shares of” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (c), the words “inure to the benefit of” are substituted for “inure to” for consistency in the revised title. The words “This subsection does not” are substituted for “Nothing in this subsection, however, shall be construed to” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (d), the words “or advance” are added in 2 places for consistency in the subsection.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 151906(a) | 36:612. | Aug. 28, 1954, ch. 1036, §§ 9, 10, 12, 68 Stat. 894. |
| 151906(b) | 36:610. |  |
| 151906(c) | 36:609(a). |  |
| 151906(d) | 36:609(b). |  |
