---
title: "§ 1437z–8. Collection of information on tenants in tax credit projects"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1437z–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1437z–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896](/us/act/1937-09-01/ch896), title I, § 36, as added [Pub. L. 110–289, div. B, title VIII, § 2835(d)](/us/pl/110/289/dB/tVIII/s2835/d), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2874](/us/stat/122/2874).)"
---
# § 1437z–8. Collection of information on tenants in tax credit projects

##### § 1437z–8. Collection of information on tenants in tax credit projects

(a) In general Each State agency administering tax credits under [section 42 of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s42) shall furnish to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, not less than annually, information concerning the race, ethnicity, family composition, age, income, use of rental assistance under section 1437f(*o*) of this title or other similar assistance, disability status, and monthly rental payments of households residing in each property receiving such credits through such agency. Such State agencies shall, to the extent feasible, collect such information through existing reporting processes and in a manner that minimizes burdens on property owners. In the case of any household that continues to reside in the same dwelling unit, information provided by the household in a previous year may be used if the information is of a category that is not subject to change or if information for the current year is not readily available to the owner of the property.

(b) Standards The Secretary shall establish standards and definitions for the information collected under subsection (a), provide States with technical assistance in establishing systems to compile and submit such information, and, in coordination with other Federal agencies administering housing programs, establish procedures to minimize duplicative reporting requirements for properties assisted under multiple housing programs.

(c) Public availability The Secretary shall, not less than annually, compile and make publicly available the information submitted to the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a).

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated for the cost of activities required under subsections (b) and (c) $2,500,000 for fiscal year 2009 and $900,000 for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2013.

*([Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896](/us/act/1937-09-01/ch896), title I, § 36, as added [Pub. L. 110–289, div. B, title VIII, § 2835(d)](/us/pl/110/289/dB/tVIII/s2835/d), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2874](/us/stat/122/2874).)*
