---
title: "§ 2603. Leasing of lands for grazing; disposition of moneys; rules and regulations covering grazing lands"
identifier: "USC-T43-S2603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section2603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876](/us/act/1937-08-28/ch876), title I, § 4, [50 Stat. 875](/us/stat/50/875).)"
---
# § 2603. Leasing of lands for grazing; disposition of moneys; rules and regulations covering grazing lands

##### § 2603. Leasing of lands for grazing; disposition of moneys; rules and regulations covering grazing lands

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized, in his discretion, to lease for grazing any of said revested or reconveyed lands which may be so used without interfering with the production of timber or other purposes of this subchapter as stated in [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2601): *Provided*, That all the moneys received on account of grazing leases shall be covered either into the “Oregon and California land-grant fund” or the “Coos Bay Wagon Road grant fund” in the Treasury as the location of the leased lands shall determine, and be subject to distribution as other moneys in such funds: *Provided further*, That the Secretary is also authorized to formulate rules and regulations for the use, protection, improvement, and rehabilitation of such grazing lands.

*([Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876](/us/act/1937-08-28/ch876), title I, § 4, [50 Stat. 875](/us/stat/50/875).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876](/us/act/1937-08-28/ch876), [50 Stat. 874](/us/stat/50/874), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1181d of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1181d) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
