---
title: "§ 15504. Program development criteria"
identifier: "USC-T40-S15504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section15504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1476](/us/stat/122/1476), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2238.)"
---
# § 15504. Program development criteria

##### § 15504. Program development criteria

(1) the relationship of the project or class of projects to overall regional development;

(2) the per capita income and poverty and unemployment and outmigration rates in an area;

(3) the financial resources available to the applicants for assistance seeking to carry out the project, with emphasis on ensuring that projects are adequately financed to maximize the probability of successful economic development;

(4) the importance of the project or class of projects in relation to the other projects or classes of projects that may be in competition for the same funds;

(5) the prospects that the project for which assistance is sought will improve, on a continuing rather than a temporary basis, the opportunities for employment, the average level of income, or the economic development of the area to be served by the project; and

(6) the extent to which the project design provides for detailed outcome measurements by which grant expenditures and the results of the expenditures may be evaluated.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1476](/us/stat/122/1476), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2238.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after June 18, 2008, see [section 14217(d) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s14217/d), set out as a note under [section 15101 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s15101).
