---
title: "§ 2912. Preservation of electronic messages and other records"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2912"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2912"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCVI, § 9602(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCVI/s9602/b/1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4828](/us/stat/134/4828).)"
---
# § 2912. Preservation of electronic messages and other records

##### § 2912. Preservation of electronic messages and other records

(a) Regulations Required.— The Archivist shall promulgate regulations governing Federal agency preservation of electronic messages that are determined to be records. Such regulations shall, at a minimum—

(1) require the electronic capture, management, and preservation of such electronic records in accordance with the records disposition requirements of chapter 33;

(2) require that such electronic records are readily accessible for retrieval through electronic searches; and

(3) include timelines for Federal agency implementation of the regulations that ensure compliance as expeditiously as practicable.

(b) Coverage of Other Electronic Records.— To the extent practicable, the regulations promulgated under subsection (a) shall also include requirements for the capture, management, and preservation of other electronic records.

(c) Review of Regulations Required.— The Archivist shall periodically review and, as necessary, amend the regulations promulgated under subsection (a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCVI, § 9602(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCVI/s9602/b/1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4828](/us/stat/134/4828).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Deadline for Regulations

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCVI, § 9602(b)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCVI/s9602/b/2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4828](/us/stat/134/4828), provided that: “Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 1, 2021], the Archivist shall propose the regulations required under [section 2912(a) of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s2912/a), United States Code, as added by paragraph (1).”
