---
title: "§ 1665i. Training and community education"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1665i"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1665i"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 710](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s710), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1665i. Training and community education

##### § 1665i. Training and community education

(a) Program The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall develop and implement or assist Indian tribes and tribal organizations to develop and implement, within each Service unit or tribal program, a program of community education and involvement which shall be designed to provide concise and timely information to the community leadership of each tribal community. Such program shall include education about behavioral health issues to political leaders, tribal judges, law enforcement personnel, members of tribal health and education boards, health care providers including traditional practitioners, and other critical members of each tribal community. Such program may also include community-based training to develop local capacity and tribal community provider training for prevention, intervention, treatment, and aftercare.

(b) Instruction The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall provide instruction in the area of behavioral health issues, including instruction in crisis intervention and family relations in the context of alcohol and substance abuse, child sexual abuse, youth alcohol and substance abuse, and the causes and effects of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders to appropriate employees of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Service, and to personnel in schools or programs operated under any contract with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Service, including supervisors of emergency shelters and halfway houses described in [section 2433 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2433).

(c) Training models In carrying out the education and training programs required by this section, the Secretary, in consultation with Indian tribes, tribal organizations, Indian behavioral health experts, and Indian alcohol and substance abuse prevention experts, shall develop and provide community-based training models. Such models shall address—

(1) the elevated risk of alcohol abuse and other behavioral health problems faced by children of alcoholics;

(2) the cultural, spiritual, and multigenerational aspects of behavioral health problem prevention and recovery; and

(3) community-based and multidisciplinary strategies for preventing and treating behavioral health problems.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 710](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s710), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 710 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s710) is based on section 181 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1665i, [Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 710](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s710), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 702(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s702/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4580](/us/stat/106/4580), provided for the completion of construction of the Thunder Child Treatment Center, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148).
