---
title: "§ 10617. Distribution and allocation"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10617"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10617"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2957](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2957), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, § 2301(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII/s2301/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1797](/us/stat/116/1797); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1142(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1142/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3110](/us/stat/119/3110); [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8](/us/pl/109/271/s8)(*l*), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767).)"
---
# § 10617. Distribution and allocation

##### § 10617. Distribution and allocation

(a) Geographic distribution The Attorney General shall ensure that, to the extent practicable, an equitable geographic distribution of grant awards is made.

(b) Technical assistance and training Unless one or more applications submitted by any State or unit of local government within such State (other than an Indian tribe) for a grant under this subchapter has been funded in any fiscal year, such State, together with eligible applicants within such State, shall be provided targeted technical assistance and training by the Bureau of Justice Assistance to assist such State and such eligible applicants to successfully compete for future funding under this subchapter, and to strengthen existing State drug court systems. In providing such technical assistance and training, the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall consider and respond to the unique needs of rural States, rural areas and rural communities.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2957](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2957), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, § 2301(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII/s2301/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1797](/us/stat/116/1797); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1142(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1142/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3110](/us/stat/119/3110); [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8](/us/pl/109/271/s8)(*l*), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797u–6 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797u–6), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–271](/us/pl/109/271) substituted “Bureau of Justice Assistance” for “Community Capacity Development Office” in two places.

[Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) added subsec. (b) and struck out heading and text of former subsec. (b). Text read as follows: “Unless all eligible applications submitted by any State or unit of local government within such State for a grant under this subchapter have been funded, such State, together with grantees within the State (other than Indian tribes), shall be allocated in each fiscal year under this subchapter not less than 0.50 percent of the total amount appropriated in the fiscal year for grants pursuant to this subchapter.”
