---
title: "§ 101101. Authority to accept land, rights-of-way, buildings, other property, and money"
identifier: "USC-T54-S101101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section101101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3119](/us/stat/128/3119).)"
---
# § 101101. Authority to accept land, rights-of-way, buildings, other property, and money

##### § 101101. Authority to accept land, rights-of-way, buildings, other property, and money

(1) patented land, rights-of-way over patented land or other land, buildings, or other property within a System unit; and

(2) money that may be donated for the purposes of the System.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3119](/us/stat/128/3119).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 101101 | 16 U.S.C. 6. | June 5, 1920, ch. 235, § 1 (2d undesignated par. under heading “national parks”), 41 Stat. 917. |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### National Park System Donor Acknowledgment

[Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3054](/us/pl/113/291/dB/tXXX/s3054), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3806](/us/stat/128/3806), provided that: “(a) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Donor acknowledgment.—The term ‘donor acknowledgment’ means an appropriate statement or credit acknowledging a donation. “(2) National park system.—The term ‘National Park System’ includes each program and individual unit of the National Park System. “(3) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Interior. “(b) Donor Acknowledgments in Units of National Park System.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary may authorize a donor acknowledgment to recognize a donation to—“(A) the National Park Service; or “(B) the National Park System. “(2) Restrictions.—A donor acknowledgment shall not be used to state or imply—“(A) recognition of the donor or any product or service of the donor as an official sponsor, or any similar form of recognition, of the National Park Service or the National Park System; “(B) a National Park Service endorsement of the donor or any product or service of the donor; or “(C) naming rights to any unit of the National Park System or a National Park System facility, including a visitor center. “(3) Requirements.—“(A) Display.—A donor acknowledgment shall be displayed—“(i) in a manner that is approved by the Secretary; and “(ii) for a period of time, as determined by the Secretary, that is commensurate with the amount of the contribution and the life of the structure. “(B) Guidelines.—The Secretary shall establish donor acknowledgment guidelines that take into account the unique requirements of individual units and programs of the National Park System. “(C) Use of slogans prohibited.—A donor acknowledgment shall not permit the use of—“(i) an advertising slogan; or “(ii) a statement or credit promoting or opposing a political candidate or issue. “(4) Placement.—“(A) Visitor and administrative facilities.—A donor acknowledgment may be located on or inside a visitor center or administrative facility of the National Park System (including in a specific room or section) or any other appropriate location, such as on a donor recognition wall or plaque. “(B) Outside.—A donor acknowledgment may be located in an area outside of a visitor or administrative facility described in subparagraph (A), including a bench, brick, pathway, area of landscaping, or plaza. “(C) Projects.—A donor acknowledgment may be located near a park construction or restoration project, if the donation directly relates to the project. “(D) Vehicles.—A donor acknowledgment may be placed on a National Park Service vehicle, if the donation directly relates to the vehicle. “(E) Limitation.—Any donor acknowledgment associated with a historic structure or placed outside a park restoration project—“(i) shall be freestanding; and “(ii) shall not obstruct a natural or historical site or view. “(5) Printed, digital, and media platforms.—The Secretary may authorize the use of donor acknowledgments under this subsection to include donor acknowledgments on printed, digital, and media platforms, including brochures or Internet websites relating to a specific unit of the National Park System. “(c) Commemorative Works Act Amendments.— [Amended [section 8905 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s8905), Public Buildings, Property, And Works.] “(d) Effect of Section.—Nothing in this section or an amendment made by this section—“(1) requires the Secretary to accept a donation; or “(2) modifies [section 145 of Public Law 108–108](/us/pl/108/108/s145) ([former] [16 U.S.C. 1a–1](/us/usc/t16/s1a–1) note [see [54 U.S.C. 100101](/us/usc/t54/s100101) note]; [117 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/117/1280)).”
