---
title: "§ 2277a–14. Prohibitions"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2277a–14"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2277a–14"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–181, title V, § 5](/us/pl/92/181/tV/s5).65, as added [Pub. L. 100–233, title III, § 302](/us/pl/100/233/tIII/s302), Jan. 6, 1988, [101 Stat. 1619](/us/stat/101/1619); amended [Pub. L. 101–624, title XVIII, § 1837](/us/pl/101/624/tXVIII/s1837), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3834](/us/stat/104/3834); [Pub. L. 102–237, title V, § 502(k)](/us/pl/102/237/tV/s502/k), Dec. 13, 1991, [105 Stat. 1869](/us/stat/105/1869); [Pub. L. 115–334, title V, § 5409](/us/pl/115/334/tV/s5409), Dec. 20, 2018,"
---
# § 2277a–14. Prohibitions

##### § 2277a–14. Prohibitions

(a) Corporate name

(1) Use of corporate name It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to use the words “Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation” or any combination of such words that would have the effect of leading the public to believe that there is any connection between such person or entity and the Corporation, by virtue of the name under which such person or entity does business.

(2) False representation

(A) By outside person or entities It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to falsely represent by any device, that the notes, bonds, debentures, or other obligations of the person or entity are insured or in any way guaranteed by the Corporation.

(B) System banks It shall be unlawful for any insured System bank or person that markets insured obligations to falsely represent the extent to which or the manner in which such obligations are insured by the Corporation.

(3) Penalty Any person or entity that willfully violates any provision of this subsection shall be fined not more than $1,000, imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both.

(b) Payments or distributions while in default

(1) In general It shall be unlawful for any insured System bank to pay any dividends on bank stock or participation certificates or interest on the capital notes or debentures of such bank (if such interest is required to be paid only out of net profits) or distribute any of the capital assets of such bank while the bank remains in default in the payment of any premium due to the Corporation.

(2) Liability of directors Each director or officer of any insured System bank who willfully participates in the declaration or payment of any dividend or interest or in any distribution in violation of this subsection shall be fined not more than $1,000, imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both.

(3) Applicability This subsection shall not apply to any default that is due to a dispute between the insured System bank and the Corporation over the amount of such premium if such bank deposits security satisfactory to the Corporation for payment on final determination of the issue.

(c) Failure to file statement or pay premium

(1) In general Any insured System bank that willfully fails or refuses to file any certified statement or pay any premium required under this part shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $100 for each day that such violations continue, which penalty the Corporation may recover for its use.

(2) Applicability This subsection shall not apply to conduct with respect to any default that is due to a dispute between the insured System bank and the Corporation over the amount of such premium if such bank deposits security satisfactory to the Corporation for payment on final determination of the issue.

(d) Employment of persons convicted of criminal offenses

(1) In general Except with the prior written consent of the Farm Credit Administration, it shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any criminal offense involving dishonesty or a breach of trust to serve as a director, officer, or employee of any System institution.

(2) Penalty For each willful violation of paragraph (1), the institution involved shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $100 for each day during which the violation continues, which the Corporation may recover for its use.

(e) Prohibition on uses of funds related to Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation No funds from administrative accounts or from the Farm Credit System Insurance Fund may be used by the Corporation to provide assistance to the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation or to support any activities related to the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.

*([Pub. L. 92–181, title V, § 5](/us/pl/92/181/tV/s5).65, as added [Pub. L. 100–233, title III, § 302](/us/pl/100/233/tIII/s302), Jan. 6, 1988, [101 Stat. 1619](/us/stat/101/1619); amended [Pub. L. 101–624, title XVIII, § 1837](/us/pl/101/624/tXVIII/s1837), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3834](/us/stat/104/3834); [Pub. L. 102–237, title V, § 502(k)](/us/pl/102/237/tV/s502/k), Dec. 13, 1991, [105 Stat. 1869](/us/stat/105/1869); [Pub. L. 115–334, title V, § 5409](/us/pl/115/334/tV/s5409), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4678](/us/stat/132/4678).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334) added subsec. (e).

1991—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 102–237](/us/pl/102/237) struck out “insured” before “System”.

1990—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 101–624, § 1837(1)](/us/pl/101/624/s1837/1), substituted “insured System institution” for “insured System bank”.

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 101–624, § 1837(2)](/us/pl/101/624/s1837/2), substituted “institution” for “bank”.
