---
title: "§ 3103. Admission of guide dogs or other service animals accompanying individuals with disabilities"
identifier: "USC-T40-S3103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section3103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1143](/us/stat/116/1143).)"
---
# § 3103. Admission of guide dogs or other service animals accompanying individuals with disabilities

##### § 3103. Admission of guide dogs or other service animals accompanying individuals with disabilities

(a) In General.— Guide dogs or other service animals accompanying individuals with disabilities and especially trained and educated for that purpose shall be admitted to any building or other property owned or controlled by the Federal Government on the same terms and conditions, and subject to the same regulations, as generally govern the admission of the public to the property. The animals are not permitted to run free or roam in a building or on the property and must be in guiding harness or on leash and under the control of the individual at all times while in a building or on the property.

(b) Regulations.— The head of each department or other agency of the Government may prescribe regulations the individual considers necessary in the public interest to carry out this section as it applies to any building or other property subject to the individual’s jurisdiction.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1143](/us/stat/116/1143).)*

In subsection (a), the words “Seeing-eye dogs or other” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “or other service animals” are added, and the words “individuals with disabilities” are substituted for “blind masters”, because of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ([29 U.S.C. 794](/us/usc/t29/s794)) and Part 39 of Title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations, which expanded the coverage of the source provision to all service animals and to all individuals with disabilities.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 3103(a) | 40:291 (1st sentence). | Dec. 10, 1941, ch. 563, 55 Stat. 796. |
| 3103(b) | 40:291 (last sentence). |  |
