---
title: "§ 8754. Marine mammals: use for national defense purposes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8754"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8754"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title XIII, § 1354(a)](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tXIII/s1354/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3996](/us/stat/100/3996), § 7524; renumbered § 8754, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(7)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/7), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)"
---
# § 8754. Marine mammals: use for national defense purposes

##### § 8754. Marine mammals: use for national defense purposes

(a) Authority.— Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense may authorize the taking of not more than 25 marine mammals each year for national defense purposes. Any such authorization may be made only with the concurrence of the Secretary of Commerce and after consultation with the Marine Mammal Commission established by section 201 of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 ([16 U.S.C. 1401](/us/usc/t16/s1401)).

(b) Humane Treatment Required.— A mammal taken under this section shall be captured, supervised, cared for, transported, and deployed in a humane manner consistent with conditions established by the Secretary of Commerce.

(c) Protection for Endangered Species.— A mammal may not be taken under this section if the mammal is determined to be a member of an endangered or threatened species under section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 ([16 U.S.C. 1533](/us/usc/t16/s1533)).

(d) Application of Other Act.— This section applies without regard to the provisions of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 ([16 U.S.C. 1361](/us/usc/t16/s1361) et seq.).

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title XIII, § 1354(a)](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tXIII/s1354/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3996](/us/stat/100/3996), § 7524; renumbered § 8754, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(7)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/7), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, referred to in subsec. (d), is [Pub. L. 92–522](/us/pl/92/522), Oct. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 1027](/us/stat/86/1027), as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 31 (§ 1361 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1361 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1361) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 8754 to 8756 were renumbered sections 9284 to 9286 of this title, respectively.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 7524 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7524) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Prohibition on Use of Funds for Retirement of Legacy Maritime Mine Countermeasures Platforms

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title III, § 393](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tIII/s393), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2550](/us/stat/136/2550), provided that: “(a) Prohibition.—Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary of the Navy may not obligate or expend funds to discontinue or prepare to discontinue, including by making a substantive reduction in training and operational employment, any element of the Marine Mammal Program of the Navy, that has been used, or is currently being used, for—“(1) port security at Navy bases, known as Mark-6 systems; or “(2) mine search capabilities, known as Mark-7 systems. “(b) Waiver.—The Secretary of the Navy may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if the Secretary, with the concurrence of the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] that the Secretary has—“(1) identified a replacement capability and the necessary quantity of such capability to meet all operational requirements currently being met by the Marine Mammal Program, including a detailed explanation of such capability and quantity; “(2) achieved initial operational capability of all capabilities referred to in paragraph (1), including a detailed explanation of such achievement; and “(3) deployed a sufficient quantity of capabilities referred to in paragraph (1) that have achieved initial operational capability to continue to meet or exceed all operational requirements currently being met by Marine Mammal Program, including a detailed explanation of such deployment.”
