---
title: "§ 8191. Determination of eligibility"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8191"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8191"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–291, § 1(a)](/us/pl/90/291/s1/a), Apr. 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 98](/us/stat/82/98); amended [Pub. L. 90–623, § 1(20)](/us/pl/90/623/s1/20), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1313](/us/stat/82/1313).)"
---
# § 8191. Determination of eligibility

##### § 8191. Determination of eligibility

(1) a law enforcement officer and to have been engaged on that occasion in the apprehension or attempted apprehension of any person—

(A) for the commission of a crime against the United States, or

(B) who at that time was sought by a law enforcement authority of the United States for the commission of a crime against the United States, or

(C) who at that time was sought as a material witness in a criminal proceeding instituted by the United States; or

(2) a law enforcement officer and to have been engaged on that occasion in protecting or guarding a person held for the commission of a crime against the United States or as a material witness in connection with such a crime; or

(3) a law enforcement officer and to have been engaged on that occasion in the lawful prevention of, or lawful attempt to prevent, the commission of a crime against the United States;

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–291, § 1(a)](/us/pl/90/291/s1/a), Apr. 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 98](/us/stat/82/98); amended [Pub. L. 90–623, § 1(20)](/us/pl/90/623/s1/20), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1313](/us/stat/82/1313).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1968—[Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623) substituted “For the purposes of this subchapter” for “For the purposes of this Act”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623) intended to restate without substantive change the law in effect on Oct. 22, 1968, see [section 6 of Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623/s6), set out as a note under [section 5334 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5334).

#### Effective Date

[Section 2 of Pub. L. 90–291](/us/pl/90/291/s2) provided that: “The amendments made by section 1 of this Act [enacting this section and sections 8192 and 8193 of this title] are effective only with respect to personal injuries sustained on or after the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 19, 1968].”
