---
title: "§ 12581a. Educational awards only program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12581a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12581a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 129A](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s129A), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1307](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1307), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1505](/us/stat/123/1505).)"
---
# § 12581a. Educational awards only program

##### § 12581a. Educational awards only program

(a) In general From amounts appropriated for a fiscal year to provide financial assistance under this division and consistent with the restriction in subsection (b), the Corporation may, through fixed-amount grants (in accordance with section 12581(*l*) of this title), provide operational support to programs that receive approved national service positions but do not receive funds under [section 12571(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12571/a).

(b) Limit on Corporation grant funds The Corporation may provide the operational support under this section for a program in an amount that is not more than $800 per individual enrolled in an approved national service position, or not more than $1,000 per such individual if at least 50 percent of the persons enrolled in the program are disadvantaged youth.

(c) Inapplicable provisions The following provisions shall not apply to programs funded under this section:

(1) The limitation on administrative costs under [section 12571(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12571/d).

(2) The matching funds requirements under [section 12571(e) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12571/e).

(3) The living allowance and other benefits under sections 12583(e) and 12594 of this title (other than individualized support services for participants with disabilities under [section 12594(f) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12594/f)).

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 129A](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s129A), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1307](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1307), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1505](/us/stat/123/1505).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).
