---
title: "§ 1607. Rules of construction"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1607"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1607"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–65, § 8](/us/pl/104/65/s8), Dec. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 699](/us/stat/109/699).)"
---
# § 1607. Rules of construction

##### § 1607. Rules of construction

(a) Constitutional rights Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with—

protected by the first amendment to the Constitution.

(1) the right to petition the Government for the redress of grievances;

(2) the right to express a personal opinion; or

(3) the right of association,

(b) Prohibition of activities Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit, or to authorize any court to prohibit, lobbying activities or lobbying contacts by any person or entity, regardless of whether such person or entity is in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.

(c) Audit and investigations Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to grant general audit or investigative authority to the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 104–65, § 8](/us/pl/104/65/s8), Dec. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 699](/us/stat/109/699).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act” meaning [Pub. L. 104–65](/us/pl/104/65), Dec. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 691](/us/stat/109/691), known as the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1601) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, see [section 24 of Pub. L. 104–65](/us/pl/104/65/s24), set out as a note under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1601).
