---
title: "§ 3112. Alaska Native technical assistance program"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–630, title III, § 313](/us/pl/101/630/tIII/s313), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4540](/us/stat/104/4540).)"
---
# § 3112. Alaska Native technical assistance program

##### § 3112. Alaska Native technical assistance program

(a) Establishment The Secretary, in consultation with the village and regional corporations established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ([43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.), shall establish a program of technical assistance for such corporations to promote the sustained yield management of their forest resources. Such technical assistance shall also be available to promote local processing and other value-added activities with such forest resources.

(b) Indian Self-Determination Act The technical assistance to be provided by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a) shall be made available through contracts, grants or agreements entered into in accordance with, and made available to entities eligible for, such contracts, grants, or agreements under the Indian Self-Determination Act [[25 U.S.C. 5321](/us/usc/t25/s5321) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 101–630, title III, § 313](/us/pl/101/630/tIII/s313), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4540](/us/stat/104/4540).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 92–203](/us/pl/92/203), Dec. 18, 1971, [85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1601) and Tables.

The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is title I of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/88/2206), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 5321 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.
