---
title: "§ 1826. Easements for rights-of-way"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1826"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1826"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 1307](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s1307), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2243](/us/stat/121/2243).)"
---
# § 1826. Easements for rights-of-way

##### § 1826. Easements for rights-of-way

(a) In general The Architect of the Capitol may grant, upon such terms as the Architect of the Capitol considers advisable, including monetary consideration, easements for rights-of-way over, in, and upon the Capitol Grounds and any other public lands under the jurisdiction and control of the Architect of the Capitol.

(b) Limitation No easement granted under this section may include more land than is necessary for the easement.

(c) Easement account There is established in the Treasury an easement account for the Architect of the Capitol. The Architect of the Capitol shall deposit in the account all proceeds received relating to the granting of easements under this section. The proceeds deposited in that account shall be available to the Architect, in such amounts and for such purposes provided in appropriations acts.

(d) In-kind consideration Subject to subsection (f), the Architect may accept in-kind consideration instead of, or in addition to, any monetary consideration, for any easement granted under this section.

(e) Termination of easement The Architect of the Capitol may terminate all or part of any easement granted under this section for—

(1) failure to comply with the terms of the grant;

(2) nonuse for a 2-year period; or

(3) abandonment.

(f) Approval The Architect of the Capitol may grant an easement for rights-of-way under subsection (a) upon submission of written notice of intent to grant that easement and the amount or type of consideration to be received, and approval by—

(1) the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate for easements granted on property under Senate jurisdiction;

(2) the House Office Building Commission for property under House of Representatives jurisdiction; and

(3) the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the House Office Building Commission for easements granted on any other property.

(g) Effective date This section shall apply to fiscal year 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 1307](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s1307), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2243](/us/stat/121/2243).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2008, which is div. H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008.
