---
title: "§ 33110. Verifications involving junk and salvage motor vehicles"
identifier: "USC-T49-S33110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section33110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1086](/us/stat/108/1086).)"
---
# § 33110. Verifications involving junk and salvage motor vehicles

##### § 33110. Verifications involving junk and salvage motor vehicles

(a) Definition.— In this section, “vehicle identification number” means a unique identification number (or derivative of that number) assigned to a passenger motor vehicle by a manufacturer in compliance with applicable regulations.

(b) General Requirements.—

(1) If an insurance carrier selling comprehensive motor vehicle insurance coverage obtains possession of and transfers a junk motor vehicle or a salvage motor vehicle, the carrier shall—

(A) under procedures the Attorney General prescribes by regulation under [section 33109 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s33109) in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, verify whether the vehicle is reported as stolen; and

(B) provide the purchaser or transferee of the vehicle from the insurance carrier verification identifying the vehicle identification number and verifying that the vehicle has not been reported as stolen or, if reported as stolen, that the carrier has recovered the vehicle and has proper legal title to the vehicle.

(2)

(A) This subsection does not prohibit an insurance carrier from transferring a motor vehicle if, within a reasonable period of time during normal business operations (as decided by the Attorney General under [section 33109 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s33109)) using reasonable efforts, the carrier—

(i) has not been informed under the procedures prescribed in [section 33109 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s33109) that the vehicle has not been reported as stolen; or

(ii) has not otherwise established whether the vehicle has been reported as stolen.

(B) When a carrier transfers a motor vehicle for which the carrier has not established whether the vehicle has been reported as stolen, the carrier shall provide written certification to the transferee that the carrier has not established whether the vehicle has been reported as stolen.

(c) Regulations.— In consultation with the Secretary, the Attorney General shall prescribe regulations necessary to ensure that verification performed and provided by an insurance carrier under subsection (b)(1)(B) of this section is uniform, effective, and resistant to fraudulent use.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1086](/us/stat/108/1086).)*

In subsection (b)(1)(B), the words “or derivative thereof” are omitted as unnecessary because of the definition of “vehicle identification number” in subsection (a) of the revised section.

In subsection (b)(2)(A)(i), the words “has not been informed under the procedures prescribed” are substituted for “has not received a determination under” for clarity and consistency in the revised chapter. In clause (ii), the words “has not otherwise established whether” are substituted for “to otherwise determine whether” for clarity.

In subsection (b)(2)(B), the words “When a carrier transfers a motor vehicle for which the carrier has not established whether the vehicle has been reported as stolen, the carrier shall provide written certification to the transferee that the carrier has not established whether the vehicle has been reported as stolen” are substituted for “except that such carrier shall provide a written certification of such lack of determination” for clarity and because of the restatement.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 33110(a) | 15:2026a(a) (2d sentence). | Oct. 20, 1972, Pub. L. 92–513, 86 Stat. 947, § 607; added Oct. 25, 1992, Pub. L. 102–519, § 306(a), 106 Stat. 3397. |
| 33110(b) | 15:2026a(a) (1st, last sentences). |  |
| 33110(c) | 15:2026a(b). |  |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 103–272, § 4(u)](/us/pl/103/272/s4/u), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1372](/us/stat/108/1372), provided that: “Not later than April 25, 1993, the Attorney General shall prescribe the regulations required under [section 33110(c) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s33110/c), United States Code, as enacted by section 1 of this Act. [Section 33110(b) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s33110/b) is effective not later than 3 months after those regulations are prescribed but not before the date on which the National Stolen Passenger Motor Vehicle Information System established under [section 33109 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s33109) is operational.”
