---
title: "§ 1101. Acquisition directorate"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tIV/s402/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2931](/us/stat/124/2931), § 561; amended [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 899(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s899/b/1/A), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2333](/us/stat/130/2333); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(c)(6)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3531/c/6), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2320](/us/stat/132/2320); renumbered § 1101, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s10"
---
# § 1101. Acquisition directorate

##### § 1101. Acquisition directorate

(a) Establishment.— The Commandant shall establish an acquisition directorate to provide guidance and oversight for the implementation and management of all Coast Guard acquisition processes, programs, and projects.

(b) Mission.— The mission of the acquisition directorate is—

(1) to acquire and deliver assets and systems that increase operational readiness, enhance mission performance, and create a safe working environment;

(2) to assist in the development of a workforce that is trained and qualified to further the Coast Guard’s missions and deliver the best-value products and services to the Nation; and

(3) to meet the needs of customers of major acquisition programs in the most cost-effective manner practicable.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tIV/s402/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2931](/us/stat/124/2931), § 561; amended [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 899(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s899/b/1/A), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2333](/us/stat/130/2333); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(c)(6)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3531/c/6), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2320](/us/stat/132/2320); renumbered § 1101, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s108/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/132/4208).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 561 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s561) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) substituted “Commandant” for “Commandant of the Coast Guard”.

2016—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Review Required

[Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 899(c)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s899/c), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2335](/us/stat/130/2335), provided that: “(1) Requirement.—The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall conduct a review of—“(A) the authorities provided to the Commandant in [former] chapter 15 of title 14, United States Code [see, now, chapter 11, [14 U.S.C. 1101](/us/usc/t14/s1101) et seq.], and other relevant statutes and regulations related to Coast Guard acquisitions, including developing recommendations to ensure that the Commandant plays an appropriate role in the development of requirements, acquisition processes, and the associated budget practices; “(B) implementation of the strategy prepared in accordance with section 562(b)(2) [now 1102(b)(2)] of title 14, United States Code, as in effect before the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 [[Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328), see Tables for classification]; and “(C) acquisition policies, directives, and regulations of the Coast Guard to ensure such policies, directives, and regulations establish a customer-oriented acquisition system. “(2) Report.—Not later than March 1, 2017, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report containing, at a minimum, the following:“(A) The recommendations developed by the Commandant under paragraph (1) and other results of the review conducted under such paragraph. “(B) The actions the Commandant is taking, if any, within the Commandant’s existing authority to implement such recommendations. “(3) Modification of policies, directives, and regulations.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2016], the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall modify the acquisition policies, directives, and regulations of the Coast Guard as necessary to ensure the development and implementation of a customer-oriented acquisition system, pursuant to the review under paragraph (1)(C).”
