---
title: "§ 3337. Consultations and certifications"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3337"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3337"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–754, title II, § 207](/us/pl/89/754/tII/s207), Nov. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 1264](/us/stat/80/1264); [Pub. L. 98–479, title II, § 201(f)](/us/pl/98/479/tII/s201/f), Oct. 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/98/2228).)"
---
# § 3337. Consultations and certifications

##### § 3337. Consultations and certifications

In carrying out his authority under [section 3335 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3335), including the issuance of regulations, the Secretary shall consult with the Department of the Interior; the Department of Health and Human Services; the Department of Commerce; and the Federal Aviation Agency with respect to metropolitan development projects assisted by those departments and agencies; and he shall, for the purpose of [section 3336 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3336), accept their respective certifications as to the cost of those projects and the amount of the non-Federal contribution paid or to be paid to that cost.

*([Pub. L. 89–754, title II, § 207](/us/pl/89/754/tII/s207), Nov. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 1264](/us/stat/80/1264); [Pub. L. 98–479, title II, § 201(f)](/us/pl/98/479/tII/s201/f), Oct. 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/98/2228).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–479](/us/pl/98/479) substituted “Health and Human Services” for “Health, Education, and Welfare”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions, powers, and duties of Federal Aviation Agency and of Administrator and other offices and officers thereof transferred by [Pub. L. 89–670](/us/pl/89/670), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 931](/us/stat/80/931), to Secretary of Transportation, with functions, powers, and duties of Secretary of Transportation pertaining to aviation safety to be exercised by Federal Aviation Administrator in Department of Transportation, see [section 106 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s106), Transportation.
