---
title: "§ 2734e. Annual Report"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2734e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2734e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIII, § 5311(d)](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIII/s5311/d), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2364](/us/stat/135/2364).)"
---
# § 2734e. Annual Report

##### § 2734e. Annual Report

(1) A rationale for the use of assignment restrictions by the Department of State, including specific case studies related to cleared United States Foreign Service and civil service employees of the Department that demonstrate country-specific restrictions serve a counterintelligence role beyond that which is already covered by the security clearance process.

(2) The number of such Department employees subject to assignment restrictions over the previous year, with data disaggregated by—

(A) identification as a Foreign Service officer, civil service employee, eligible family member, or other employment status;

(B) the ethnicity, national origin, and race of the precluded employee;

(C) gender; and

(D) the country of restriction.

(3) A description of the considerations and criteria used by the Bureau of Diplomatic Security to determine whether an assignment restriction is warranted.

(4) The number of restrictions that were appealed and the success rate of such appeals.

(5) The impact of assignment restrictions in terms of unused language skills as measured by Foreign Service Institute language scores of such precluded employees.

(6) Measures taken to ensure the diversity of adjudicators and contracted investigators, with accompanying data on results.

*([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIII, § 5311(d)](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIII/s5311/d), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2364](/us/stat/135/2364).)*
