---
title: "§ 9202. National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility"
identifier: "USC-T7-S9202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section9202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. P, § 3](/us/pl/116/260/dP/s3), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/134/2159).)"
---
# § 9202. National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility

##### § 9202. National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility

(a) In general The National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility shall be a national security laboratory asset to provide integrated research, development, and test and evaluation infrastructure to improve preparedness and response capabilities to prevent, detect, respond to, or mitigate harm resulting from animal pests or diseases and zoonotic diseases for the purpose of defending the United States against bio- and agro-threats, whether naturally occurring or intentional.

(b) Mission Pursuant to subsection (a), the mission of the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility shall be to protect the food supply, agriculture, and public health of the United States, including by—

(1) integrating agricultural, zoonotic disease, and other research, as appropriate;

(2) addressing threats from high-consequence zoonotic disease agents, emerging foreign animal diseases, and animal transboundary diseases;

(3) addressing biological threats;

(4) ensuring that research conducted at the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility addresses gaps that fall between the ongoing animal and zoonotic disease research efforts across the Federal Government and does not duplicate those ongoing efforts;

(5) facilitating, integrating, and coordinating the development and implementation of the strategic plan for research under [section 9203(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s9203/a/2), relating to protection of the food supply, agriculture, and public health of the United States;

(6) providing appropriate education and training to prepare for and respond to bio- and agro-defense threats;

(7) sharing data and related information with appropriate Federal departments or agencies, as requested by the heads of those departments or agencies, or as necessary, to support biological material threat assessments; and

(8) sharing data and related information, and developing strategic partnerships, to enhance the carrying out of the duties of the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility for the development of priority zoonotic animal disease diagnostics, vaccines, drugs, and other countermeasures.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. P, § 3](/us/pl/116/260/dP/s3), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/134/2159).)*
