---
title: "§ 1702. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment: authorities and responsibilities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XII, § 1202(a)](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXII/s1202/a), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1638](/us/stat/104/1638); amended [Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title IX, § 904(d)(1)](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tIX/s904/d/1), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1728](/us/stat/107/1728); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title VIII, § 815](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tVIII/s815), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2088](/us/stat/112/2088); [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title X, § 1048(b)(2)](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tX/s1048/b/2), (3)(A), D"
---
# § 1702. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment: authorities and responsibilities

##### § 1702. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment: authorities and responsibilities

Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall carry out all powers, functions, and duties of the Secretary of Defense with respect to the acquisition workforce in the Department of Defense. The Under Secretary shall ensure that the policies of the Secretary of Defense established in accordance with this chapter are implemented throughout the Department of Defense. The Under Secretary shall prescribe policies and requirements for the educational programs of the defense acquisition university structure established under [section 1746 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1746).

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XII, § 1202(a)](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXII/s1202/a), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1638](/us/stat/104/1638); amended [Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title IX, § 904(d)(1)](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tIX/s904/d/1), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1728](/us/stat/107/1728); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title VIII, § 815](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tVIII/s815), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2088](/us/stat/112/2088); [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title X, § 1048(b)(2)](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tX/s1048/b/2), (3)(A), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1225](/us/stat/115/1225); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, § 902(11)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tIX/s902/11), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1544](/us/stat/133/1544).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—[Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) substituted “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment” for “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics” in section catchline and in text.

2001—[Pub. L. 107–107](/us/pl/107/107) substituted “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics” for “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology” in section catchline and in text.

1998—[Pub. L. 105–261](/us/pl/105/261) inserted at end “The Under Secretary shall prescribe policies and requirements for the educational programs of the defense acquisition university structure established under [section 1746 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1746).”

1993—[Pub. L. 103–160](/us/pl/103/160) substituted “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology” for “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition” in section catchline and in text.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Quick-Reaction Special Projects Acquisition Team

[Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title VIII, § 807](/us/pl/107/314/dA/tVIII/s807), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2608](/us/stat/116/2608), as amended by [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, § 902(12)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tIX/s902/12), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1544](/us/stat/133/1544), provided that: “(a) Establishment.—The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall establish a team of highly qualified acquisition professionals who shall be available to advise the Under Secretary on actions that can be taken to expedite the acquisition of urgently needed systems. “(b) Duties.—The issues on which the team may provide advice shall include the following:“(1) Industrial base issues, including the limited availability of suppliers. “(2) Technology development and technology transition issues. “(3) Issues of acquisition policy, including the length of the acquisition cycle. “(4) Issues of testing policy and ensuring that weapon systems perform properly in combat situations. “(5) Issues of procurement policy, including the impact of socio-economic requirements. “(6) Issues relating to compliance with environmental requirements.”
