---
title: "§ 12634. Prohibition on use of funds"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12634"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12634"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 174](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s174), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3160](/us/stat/104/3160); [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1603](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1603), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1529](/us/stat/123/1529).)"
---
# § 12634. Prohibition on use of funds

##### § 12634. Prohibition on use of funds

(a) Prohibited uses No assistance made available under a grant under this subchapter shall be used to provide religious instruction, conduct worship services, or engage in any form of proselytization.

(b) Political activity Assistance provided under this subchapter shall not be used by program participants and program staff to—

(1) assist, promote, or deter union organizing; or

(2) finance, directly or indirectly, any activity designed to influence the outcome of an election to Federal office or the outcome of an election to a State or local public office.

(c) Contracts or collective bargaining agreements A program that receives assistance under this subchapter shall not impair existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements.

(d) Referrals for Federal assistance A program may not receive assistance under the national service laws for the sole purpose of referring individuals to Federal assistance programs or State assistance programs funded in part by the Federal Government.

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 174](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s174), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3160](/us/stat/104/3160); [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1603](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1603), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1529](/us/stat/123/1529).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2009—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13) added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13) effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as a note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).
