---
title: "§ 619. Internet browsers built into telephones used with public mobile services"
identifier: "USC-T47-S619"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section619"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VII, § 718, as added [Pub. L. 111–260, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/111/260/tI/s104/a), Oct. 8, 2010, [124 Stat. 2761](/us/stat/124/2761).)"
---
# § 619. Internet browsers built into telephones used with public mobile services

##### § 619. Internet browsers built into telephones used with public mobile services

(a) Accessibility If a manufacturer of a telephone used with public mobile services (as such term is defined in [section 610(b)(4)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s610/b/4/B)) includes an Internet browser in such telephone, or if a provider of mobile service arranges for the inclusion of a browser in telephones to sell to customers, the manufacturer or provider shall ensure that the functions of the included browser (including the ability to launch the browser) are accessible to and usable by individuals who are blind or have a visual impairment, unless doing so is not achievable, except that this subsection shall not impose any requirement on such manufacturer or provider—

(1) to make accessible or usable any Internet browser other than a browser that such manufacturer or provider includes or arranges to include in the telephone; or

(2) to make Internet content, applications, or services accessible or usable (other than enabling individuals with disabilities to use an included browser to access such content, applications, or services).

(b) Industry flexibility A manufacturer or provider may satisfy the requirements of subsection (a) with respect to such telephone or services by—

(1) ensuring that the telephone or services that such manufacture or provider offers is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities without the use of third party applications, peripheral devices, software, hardware, or customer premises equipment; or

(2) using third party applications, peripheral devices, software, hardware, or customer premises equipment that is available to the consumer at nominal cost and that individuals with disabilities can access.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VII, § 718, as added [Pub. L. 111–260, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/111/260/tI/s104/a), Oct. 8, 2010, [124 Stat. 2761](/us/stat/124/2761).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 111–260, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/111/260/tI/s104/b), Oct. 8, 2010, [124 Stat. 2761](/us/stat/124/2761), provided that: “Section 718 of the Communications Act of 1934 [[47 U.S.C. 619](/us/usc/t47/s619)], as added by subsection (a), shall take effect 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 8, 2010].”
