---
title: "§ 1701o. Annual report of Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701o"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701o"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649](/us/act/1954-08-02/ch649), title VIII, § 802(a), [68 Stat. 642](/us/stat/68/642); [Pub. L. 89–117, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/89/117/tXI/s1101), Aug. 10, 1965, [79 Stat. 502](/us/stat/79/502); [Pub. L. 90–19, § 10(f)](/us/pl/90/19/s10/f), May 25, 1967, [81 Stat. 23](/us/stat/81/23); [Pub. L. 100–242, title V, § 570(b)](/us/pl/100/242/tV/s570/b), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1950](/us/stat/101/1950).)"
---
# § 1701o. Annual report of Secretary

##### § 1701o. Annual report of Secretary

The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall, as soon as practicable during each calendar year, make a report to the President for submission to the Congress on all operations and programs (including but not limited to the insurance, urban renewal, public housing, and rent supplement programs) under the jurisdiction of the Department of Housing and Urban Development during the previous calendar year. Such report shall contain recommendations for strengthening or improving such programs, or, when necessary to implement more effectively Congressional policies and purposes, for establishing new or alternative programs.

*([Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649](/us/act/1954-08-02/ch649), title VIII, § 802(a), [68 Stat. 642](/us/stat/68/642); [Pub. L. 89–117, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/89/117/tXI/s1101), Aug. 10, 1965, [79 Stat. 502](/us/stat/79/502); [Pub. L. 90–19, § 10(f)](/us/pl/90/19/s10/f), May 25, 1967, [81 Stat. 23](/us/stat/81/23); [Pub. L. 100–242, title V, § 570(b)](/us/pl/100/242/tV/s570/b), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1950](/us/stat/101/1950).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing Act of 1954, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–242](/us/pl/100/242) inserted section catchline “Annual report of Secretary”.

1967—[Pub. L. 90–19](/us/pl/90/19) struck out “FHA” before “insurance” and substituted “Secretary of Housing and Urban Development” and “Department of Housing and Urban Development” for “Housing and Home Finance Administrator” and “Housing and Home Finance Agency”, respectively.

1965—[Pub. L. 89–117](/us/pl/89/117) specifically included FHA insurance, urban renewal, public housing, and rent supplement programs within the operation and programs of the Housing and Home Finance Agency which the report shall cover and inserted requirement that the report contain recommendations for improving programs and for new or alternative programs.
