---
title: "§ 962. Reduction of bycatch in eastern tropical Pacific Ocean"
identifier: "USC-T16-S962"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section962"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 907, § 15](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch907/s15), as added [Pub. L. 105–42, § 7(c)](/us/pl/105/42/s7/c), Aug. 15, 1997, [111 Stat. 1138](/us/stat/111/1138); amended [Pub. L. 114–81, title II, § 209](/us/pl/114/81/tII/s209), Nov. 5, 2015, [129 Stat. 664](/us/stat/129/664).)"
---
# § 962. Reduction of bycatch in eastern tropical Pacific Ocean

##### § 962. Reduction of bycatch in eastern tropical Pacific Ocean

(1) to require, to the maximum extent practicable, that sea turtles and other threatened species and endangered species are released alive;

(2) to reduce, to the maximum extent practicable, the harvest of nontarget species;

(3) to reduce, to the maximum extent practicable, the mortality of nontarget species; and

(4) to reduce, to the maximum extent practicable, the mortality of juveniles of the target species.

*([Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 907, § 15](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch907/s15), as added [Pub. L. 105–42, § 7(c)](/us/pl/105/42/s7/c), Aug. 15, 1997, [111 Stat. 1138](/us/stat/111/1138); amended [Pub. L. 114–81, title II, § 209](/us/pl/114/81/tII/s209), Nov. 5, 2015, [129 Stat. 664](/us/stat/129/664).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 7(c) of Pub. L. 105–42](/us/pl/105/42/s7/c), which directed the addition of this section at the end of the Tuna Conventions Act, was executed by adding this section at the end of the Tuna Conventions Act of 1950, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Amendments

2015—[Pub. L. 114–81](/us/pl/114/81) substituted “vessels” for “vessel” in introductory provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon certification by Secretary of Commerce that sufficient funding is available to complete first year of study required by [section 1414a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1414a/a) and that study has commenced, and certification by Secretary of State to Congress that binding resolution of Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission or other legally binding instrument establishing International Dolphin Conservation Program has been adopted and is in force, see [section 8 of Pub. L. 105–42](/us/pl/105/42/s8), set out as an Effective Date of 1997 Amendment note under [section 1362 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1362).
