---
title: "§ 506. Authority of Secretary to make modifications"
identifier: "USC-T43-S506"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section506"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–578, § 2](/us/pl/95/578/s2), Nov. 2, 1978, [92 Stat. 2471](/us/stat/92/2471).)"
---
# § 506. Authority of Secretary to make modifications

##### § 506. Authority of Secretary to make modifications

In order to preserve the structural safety of Bureau of Reclamation dams and related facilities the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to perform such modifications as he determines to be reasonably required. Said performance of work shall be in accordance with the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), and Acts amendatory or supplementary thereto).

*([Pub. L. 95–578, § 2](/us/pl/95/578/s2), Nov. 2, 1978, [92 Stat. 2471](/us/stat/92/2471).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 17, 1902, referred to in text, is popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 1984 Amendment

[Pub. L. 98–404, § 1](/us/pl/98/404/s1), Aug. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1481](/us/stat/98/1481), provided in part: “That this Act [amending sections 508 and 509 of this title] may be cited as ‘The Reclamation Safety of Dams Act Amendments of 1984’.”

#### Short Title of 1978 Amendment

[Pub. L. 95–578, § 1](/us/pl/95/578/s1), Nov. 2, 1978, [92 Stat. 2471](/us/stat/92/2471), provided: “That this Act [enacting this subchapter and amending [section 1511 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1511)] shall be cited as the ‘Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978’.”

#### Facilities Included Within Scope of Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978

[Pub. L. 95–578, § 12](/us/pl/95/578/s12), as added by [Pub. L. 98–404, § 1(4)](/us/pl/98/404/s1/4), Aug. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1482](/us/stat/98/1482), provided that: “Included within the scope of this Act [this subchapter] are Fish Lake, Four Mile, Ochoco, Savage Rapids Diversion and Warm Springs Dams, Oregon; Como Dam, Montana; Little Wood River Dam, Idaho; and related facilities which have been made a part of a Federal reclamation project by previous Acts of Congress. Coolidge Dam, San Carlos Irrigation Project, Arizona, shall also be included within the scope of this Act.”
