---
title: "§ 51323. United States Merchant Marine Academy Advisory Council"
identifier: "USC-T46-S51323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section51323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXV, § 3501(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXV/s3501/c/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2238](/us/stat/135/2238).)"
---
# § 51323. United States Merchant Marine Academy Advisory Council

##### § 51323. United States Merchant Marine Academy Advisory Council

(a) Establishment.— The Secretary of Transportation shall establish an advisory council, to be known as the “United States Merchant Marine Academy Advisory Council” (in this section referred to as the “Council”).

(b) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary shall select not fewer than 8 and not more than 14 individuals to serve as members of the Council. Such individuals shall have such expertise as the Secretary determines necessary and appropriate for providing advice and guidance on improving the Academy.

(2) Governmental experts.— The number of members of the Council who are employees of the Federal Government may not exceed the number of members of the Council who are not employees of the Federal Government.

(3) Employee status.— Members of the Council shall not be considered employees of the United States Government by reason of their membership on the Council for any purpose and shall not receive compensation other than reimbursement of travel expenses and per diem allowance in accordance with [section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703).

(c) Responsibilities.— The Council shall provide advice to the Secretary at the time and in the manner requested by the Secretary.

(d) Personally Identifiable Information.— In carrying out its responsibilities under this subsection, the Council shall comply with the obligations of the Department of Transportation to protect personally identifiable information.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXV, § 3501(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXV/s3501/c/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2238](/us/stat/135/2238).)*
