---
title: "§ 15101. Transportation policy"
identifier: "USC-T49-S15101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section15101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 921](/us/stat/109/921); amended [Pub. L. 105–102, § 2(13)](/us/pl/105/102/s2/13), Nov. 20, 1997, [111 Stat. 2205](/us/stat/111/2205).)"
---
# § 15101. Transportation policy

##### § 15101. Transportation policy

(a) In General.— To ensure the development, coordination, and preservation of a transportation system that meets the transportation needs of the United States, including the national defense, it is the policy of the United States Government to oversee the modes of transportation and in overseeing those modes—

(1) to recognize and preserve the inherent advantage of each mode of transportation;

(2) to promote safe, adequate, economical, and efficient transportation;

(3) to encourage sound economic conditions in transportation, including sound economic conditions among carriers;

(4) to encourage the establishment and maintenance of reasonable rates for transportation without unreasonable discrimination or unfair or destructive competitive practices;

(5) to cooperate with each State and the officials of each State on transportation matters; and

(6) to encourage fair wages and working conditions in the transportation industry.

(b) Administration To Carry Out Policy.— This part shall be administered and enforced to carry out the policy of this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 921](/us/stat/109/921); amended [Pub. L. 105–102, § 2(13)](/us/pl/105/102/s2/13), Nov. 20, 1997, [111 Stat. 2205](/us/stat/111/2205).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### [Pub. L. 105–102](/us/pl/105/102)

This amends 49:15101(a) to correct a grammatical error.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s10101) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### Amendments

1997—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–102](/us/pl/105/102) struck out “of” after “Government to oversee”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).

#### GAO Report

[Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(b)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/b), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 932](/us/stat/109/932), directed the Comptroller General, within 3 years after Jan. 1, 1996, to transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report regarding the impact of regulations on the competitiveness of pipelines and to recommend whether to continue, revise, or sunset such regulations.
