---
title: "§ 313. Bilateral or regional cooperation programs: awards and mementos to recognize superior noncombat achievements or performance"
identifier: "USC-T10-S313"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section313"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title XII, § 1222(a)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tXII/s1222/a), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1652](/us/stat/117/1652), § 1051b; renumbered § 313, [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1241(b)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1241/b), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2500](/us/stat/130/2500).)"
---
# § 313. Bilateral or regional cooperation programs: awards and mementos to recognize superior noncombat achievements or performance

##### § 313. Bilateral or regional cooperation programs: awards and mementos to recognize superior noncombat achievements or performance

(a) General Authority.— The Secretary of Defense may present awards and mementos purchased with funds appropriated for operation and maintenance of the armed forces to recognize superior noncombat achievements or performance by members of friendly foreign forces and other foreign nationals that significantly enhance or support the National Security Strategy of the United States.

(b) Activities That May Be Recognized.— Activities that may be recognized under subsection (a) include superior achievement or performance that—

(1) plays a crucial role in shaping the international security environment in ways that protect and promote United States interests;

(2) supports or enhances United States overseas presence and peacetime engagement activities, including defense cooperation initiatives, security assistance training and programs, and training and exercises with the armed forces;

(3) helps to deter aggression and coercion, build coalitions, and promote regional stability; or

(4) serves as a role model for appropriate conduct by military forces in emerging democracies.

(c) Limitation.— Expenditures for the purchase or production of mementos for award under this section may not exceed the minimal value in effect under [section 7342(a)(5) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s7342/a/5).

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title XII, § 1222(a)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tXII/s1222/a), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1652](/us/stat/117/1652), § 1051b; renumbered § 313, [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1241(b)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1241/b), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2500](/us/stat/130/2500).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) renumbered [section 1051b of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1051b) as this section.
