---
title: "§ 661. Creation of commission; appointment of members; vacancies; powers generally"
identifier: "USC-T33-S661"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section661"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Mar. 1, 1893, ch. 183, § 1](/us/act/1893-03-01/ch183/s1), [27 Stat. 507](/us/stat/27/507); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 661. Creation of commission; appointment of members; vacancies; powers generally

##### § 661. Creation of commission; appointment of members; vacancies; powers generally

A commission is created, to be known as the California Debris Commission, consisting of three members. The President of the United States shall, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint the commission from officers of the Corps of Engineers, United States Army. Vacancies occurring therein shall be filled in like manner. It shall have the authority, and exercise the powers set forth in sections 662 to 685 of this title, under the supervision of the Chief of Engineers and direction of the Secretary of the Army.

*([Mar. 1, 1893, ch. 183, § 1](/us/act/1893-03-01/ch183/s1), [27 Stat. 507](/us/stat/27/507); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Abolition of California Debris Commission

[Pub. L. 99–662, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/99/662/tXI/s1106), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4229](/us/stat/100/4229), provided that: “(a) The California Debris Commission established by the first section of the Act of March 1, 1893 ([33 U.S.C. 661](/us/usc/t33/s661)) is hereby abolished. “(b) All authorities, powers, functions, and duties of the California Debris Commission are hereby transferred to the Secretary [meaning Secretary of the Army, see [33 U.S.C. 2201](/us/usc/t33/s2201)]. “(c) The assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and the unexpended balance of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, held, used arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the authorities, powers, functions, and duties transferred by this section, subject to section 202 of the Budget and Accounting Procedure Act of 1950 [see [31 U.S.C. 1531](/us/usc/t31/s1531)], are hereby transferred to the Secretary for appropriate allocation. Unexpended funds transferred pursuant to this subsection shall be used only for the purposes for which the funds were originally authorized and appropriated. “(d) All acquired lands, and other interests therein presently under the jurisdiction of the California Debris Commission are hereby authorized to be retained, and shall be administered under the direction of the Secretary, who is hereby authorized to take such actions as are necessary to consolidate and perfect title; to exchange for other lands or interests therein which may be required for recreation or for existing or proposed projects of the United States; to transfer to other Federal agencies or dispose of as surplus property; and to release to the coextensive fee owners any easements no longer required by the United States, under such conditions or for such consideration as the Secretary shall determine to be fair and reasonable. Except as specifically provided herein all transactions will be in accordance with existing laws and procedures.”
