---
title: "§ 17032. Grants for biofuel production research and development in certain States"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17032"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17032"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 223](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s223), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1533](/us/stat/121/1533).)"
---
# § 17032. Grants for biofuel production research and development in certain States

##### § 17032. Grants for biofuel production research and development in certain States

(a) In general The Secretary shall provide grants to eligible entities for research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of biofuel production technologies in States with low rates of ethanol production, including low rates of production of cellulosic biomass ethanol, as determined by the Secretary.

(b) Eligibility To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall—

(1)

(A) be an institution of higher education (as defined in [section 15801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801)), including tribally controlled colleges or universities, located in a State described in subsection (a); or

(B) be a consortium including at least 1 such institution of higher education and industry, State agencies, Indian tribal agencies, National Laboratories, or local government agencies located in the State; and

(2) have proven experience and capabilities with relevant technologies.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2010.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 223](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s223), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1533](/us/stat/121/1533).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
