---
title: "§ 329. Administration of radio laws in Territories and possessions"
identifier: "USC-T47-S329"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section329"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 329, [48 Stat. 1092](/us/stat/48/1092); [May 20, 1937, ch. 229, § 9](/us/act/1937-05-20/ch229/s9), [50 Stat. 191](/us/stat/50/191).)"
---
# § 329. Administration of radio laws in Territories and possessions

##### § 329. Administration of radio laws in Territories and possessions

The Commission is authorized to designate any officer or employee of any other department of the Government on duty in any Territory or possession of the United States to render therein such service in connection with the administration of this chapter as the Commission may prescribe and also to designate any officer or employee of any other department of the Government to render such services at any place within the United States in connection with the administration of this subchapter as may be necessary: *Provided*, That such designation shall be approved by the head of the department in which such person is employed.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 329, [48 Stat. 1092](/us/stat/48/1092); [May 20, 1937, ch. 229, § 9](/us/act/1937-05-20/ch229/s9), [50 Stat. 191](/us/stat/50/191).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1937—Act May 20, 1937, struck out provisions which prohibited designation of officers and employees in the Philippine Islands and Canal Zone and inserted provisions permitting designation of officers and employees within the United States.
