---
title: "§ 3401. Declaration of policy"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–793, § 2](/us/pl/89/793/s2), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1438](/us/stat/80/1438).)"
---
# § 3401. Declaration of policy

##### § 3401. Declaration of policy

It is the policy of the Congress that certain persons charged with or convicted of violating Federal criminal laws, who are determined to be addicted to narcotic drugs, and likely to be rehabilitated through treatment, should, in lieu of prosecution or sentencing, be civilly committed for confinement and treatment designed to effect their restoration to health, and return to society as useful members.

It is the further policy of the Congress that certain persons addicted to narcotic drugs who are not charged with the commission of any offense should be afforded the opportunity, through civil commitment, for treatment, in order that they may be rehabilitated and returned to society as useful members and in order that society may be protected more effectively from crime and delinquency which result from narcotic addiction.

*([Pub. L. 89–793, § 2](/us/pl/89/793/s2), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1438](/us/stat/80/1438).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act of 1966, which is classified to subchapters II and III of this chapter, chapter 314 (section 4251 et seq.) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and chapter 175 (section 2901 et seq.) of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 89–793, title VI, § 605](/us/pl/89/793/tVI/s605), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1450](/us/stat/80/1450), provided that: “Title I of this Act [enacting chapter 175 (§ 2901 et seq.) of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure] shall take effect three months after the date of its enactment [Nov. 8, 1966], and shall apply to any case pending in a district court of the United States in which an appearance has not been made prior to such effective date. Titles II [enacting chapter 314 (§ 4251 et seq.) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure] and V of this Act [amending [section 7237(d) of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s7237/d), Internal Revenue Code and enacting provisions set out as note under [section 4202 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4202)] shall take effect three months after the date of its enactment [Nov. 8, 1966] and shall apply to any case pending in any court of the United States in which sentence has not yet been imposed as of such effective date. Title III of this Act [enacting section 3411 et seq. of this title] shall take effect three months after the date of its enactment [Nov. 8, 1966].”

#### Short Title of 1971 Amendment

[Pub. L. 92–420, § 1](/us/pl/92/420/s1), Sept. 16, 1972, [86 Stat. 677](/us/stat/86/677), provided: “That this Act [amending [section 3411 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3411), [section 4251 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4251), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and [section 2901 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2901), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 2901 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2901)] may be cited as the ‘Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Amendments of 1971’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 89–793, § 1](/us/pl/89/793/s1), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1438](/us/stat/80/1438), provided: “That titles I, II, III, and IV of this Act [enacting subchapters II and III of this chapter, chapter 314 (§ 4251 et seq.) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and chapter 175 (§ 2901 et seq.) of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure] may be cited as the ‘Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act of 1966’.”

#### Separability

[Pub. L. 89–793, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/89/793/tVI/s604), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1450](/us/stat/80/1450), provided that: “If any provision of this Act [enacting this chapter, chapter 314 (§ 4251 et seq.) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and chapter 175 (§ 2901 et seq.) of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, amending [section 257 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s257) and [section 7237 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s7237), Internal Revenue Code, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 4202 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4202)] or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of such provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.”

#### Authorization of Appropriations

[Pub. L. 89–793, title VI, § 607](/us/pl/89/793/tVI/s607), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1450](/us/stat/80/1450), provided that: “There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act [enacting this chapter, chapter 314 (§ 4251 et seq.) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and chapter 175 (§ 2901 et seq.) of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, amending [section 257 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s257) and [section 7237 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s7237), Internal Revenue Code, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 4202 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4202)].”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1966

[Pub. L. 89–793, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/89/793/tVI/s606), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1450](/us/stat/80/1450), provided that: “The provisions of this Act [enacting this chapter, chapter 314 (§ 4251 et seq.) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and chapter 175 (§ 2901 et seq.) of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, amending [section 257 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s257) and [section 7237 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s7237), Internal Revenue Code, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 4202 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4202)] shall be subject to the provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1966 [set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202)].”
