---
title: "§ 4191. General application of provisions to consular officers"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4191"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4191"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 1689; [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXII, § 2222(b), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–818](/us/stat/112/2681-818).)"
---
# § 4191. General application of provisions to consular officers

##### § 4191. General application of provisions to consular officers

The various provisions of title 18 of the Revised Statutes which are expressed in terms of general application to any particular classes of consular officers, shall be deemed to apply as well to all other classes of such officers and to such other United States citizen employees of the Department of State as may be designated by the Secretary of State pursuant to such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, so far as may be consistent with the subject matter of the same and with the treaties of the United States.

*(R.S. § 1689; [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXII, § 2222(b), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–818](/us/stat/112/2681-818).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Title 18 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in text, was in the original “this Title”, meaning title 18 of the Revised Statutes, consisting of R.S. §§ 1674 to 1752, and insofar as classified to the Code, is classified to sections 4191, 4193 to 4197, 4200, 4202, 4204, 4205, 4207 to 4214, and 4216 to 4221 of this title. For complete classification of R.S. §§ 1674 to 1752 to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

R.S. § 1689 derived from [act Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 127, § 31](/us/act/1856-08-18/ch127/s31), [11 Stat. 64](/us/stat/11/64).

Section was not enacted as part of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 1171 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1171), and prior thereto to [section 53 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s53).

#### Amendments

1998—[Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) inserted “and to such other United States citizen employees of the Department of State as may be designated by the Secretary of State pursuant to such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe” after “such officers”.
