---
title: "§ 3101. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T43-S3101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section3101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–323, § 2](/us/pl/116/323/s2), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 5075](/us/stat/134/5075).)"
---
# § 3101. Definitions

##### § 3101. Definitions

(1) 3D The term “3D” means 3-dimensional.

(2) 3D elevation data

(A) In general The term “3D elevation data” means 3D, high-resolution data obtained using LiDAR, IfSAR, or other methods over the United States (including territories).

(B) Inclusions The term “3D elevation data” includes terrestrial and bathymetric elevation data.

(3) 3D elevation program The term “3D Elevation Program” means the 3D Elevation Program established under [section 3104(a) of this title](/us/usc/t43/s3104/a).

(4) IfSAR The term “IfSAR” means interferometric synthetic aperture radar.

(5) Indian tribe The term “Indian tribe” has the meaning given the term in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(6) Lahar The term “lahar” means a large debris flow of mostly volcanic material that is—

(A) often fast-moving; and

(B) a hazard in watersheds downstream of volcanic peaks.

(7) LiDAR The term “LiDAR” means light detection and ranging.

(8) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Geological Survey.

(9) State The term “State” means—

(A) a State; and

(B) the District of Columbia.

(10) State office The term “State office” means any unit of State government that handles the identification, mapping, assessment, and research of landslide hazards or responding to landslide events, including—

(A) a State geological survey office;

(B) a State department of emergency response; and

(C) a State department of transportation.

(11) Territory The term “territory” means—

(A) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;

(B) Guam;

(C) American Samoa;

(D) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands;

(E) the Federated States of Micronesia;

(F) the Republic of the Marshall Islands;

(G) the Republic of Palau; and

(H) the United States Virgin Islands.

*([Pub. L. 116–323, § 2](/us/pl/116/323/s2), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 5075](/us/stat/134/5075).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 116–323, § 1](/us/pl/116/323/s1), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 5075](/us/stat/134/5075), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘National Landslide Preparedness Act’.”
