---
title: "§ 4516. Designation of energy as a strategic and critical material"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4516"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4516"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title I, § 106, as added [Pub. L. 96–294, title I, § 103](/us/pl/96/294/tI/s103), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 617](/us/stat/94/617); amended [Pub. L. 111–67, § 5](/us/pl/111/67/s5), Sept. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2009](/us/stat/123/2009).)"
---
# § 4516. Designation of energy as a strategic and critical material

##### § 4516. Designation of energy as a strategic and critical material

For purposes of this chapter, “energy” shall be designated as a “strategic and critical material” after June 30, 1980: *Provided*, That no provision of this chapter shall, by virtue of such designation 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. grant any new direct or indirect authority to the President for the mandatory allocation or pricing of any fuel or feedstock (including, but not limited to, crude oil, residual fuel oil, any refined petroleum product, natural gas, or coal) or electricity or any other form of energy.

*([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title I, § 106, as added [Pub. L. 96–294, title I, § 103](/us/pl/96/294/tI/s103), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 617](/us/stat/94/617); amended [Pub. L. 111–67, § 5](/us/pl/111/67/s5), Sept. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2009](/us/stat/123/2009).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section, see [section 4564(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4564/a).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), [64 Stat. 798](/us/stat/64/798), known as the Defense Production Act of 1950, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4501 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4501) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2076 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2009—[Pub. L. 111–67](/us/pl/111/67) substituted “such designation” for “such designation—” and “energy.” for “energy; or”, struck out par. (1) designation before “grant any new direct or indirect authority to the President for”, and struck out par. (2) which read as follows: “grant any new direct or indirect authority to the President to engage in the production of energy in any manner whatsoever (such as oil and gas exploration and development, or any energy facility construction), except as expressly provided in sections 305 and 306 [of [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932)] for synthetic fuel production.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective June 30, 1980, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 96–294](/us/pl/96/294/s107), set out as an Effective Date of 1980 Amendment note under [section 4502 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4502).
