---
title: "§ 6234. Protection of classified information during laboratory-to-laboratory exchanges"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6234"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6234"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2)(B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/139/1411), 1462.)"
---
# § 6234. Protection of classified information during laboratory-to-laboratory exchanges

##### § 6234. Protection of classified information during laboratory-to-laboratory exchanges

(a) Provision of Training.— The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that all Department of Energy employees and Department of Energy contractor employees participating in laboratory-to-laboratory cooperative exchange activities are fully trained in matters relating to the protection of classified information and to potential espionage and counterintelligence threats.

(b) Countering of Espionage and Intelligence-gathering Abroad.—

(1) The Secretary shall establish a pool of Department employees and Department contractor employees who are specially trained to counter threats of espionage and intelligence-gathering by foreign nationals against Department employees and Department contractor employees who travel abroad for laboratory-to-laboratory exchange activities or other cooperative exchange activities on behalf of the Department.

(2) The Director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence of the Department of Energy may assign at least one employee from the pool established under paragraph (1) to accompany a group of Department employees or Department contractor employees who travel to any nation designated to be a sensitive country for laboratory-to-laboratory exchange activities or other cooperative exchange activities on behalf of the Department.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2)(B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/139/1411), 1462.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2674 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2674), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(d)(2)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/d/2/B), realigned margins.
