---
title: "§ 3747. Date of rank upon promotion; entitlement to pay"
identifier: "USC-T14-S3747"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section3747"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–322, § 1](/us/pl/96/322/s1), Aug. 4, 1980, [94 Stat. 1012](/us/stat/94/1012), § 736; amended [Pub. L. 97–417, § 2(14)](/us/pl/97/417/s2/14), Jan. 4, 1983, [96 Stat. 2086](/us/stat/96/2086); [Pub. L. 99–145, title V, § 514(c)(1)](/us/pl/99/145/tV/s514/c/1), Nov. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 629](/us/stat/99/629); [Pub. L. 101–225, title II, § 203(4)](/us/pl/101/225/tII/s203/4), Dec. 12, 1989, [103 Stat. 1911](/us/stat/103/1911); [Pub. L. 107–295, title IV, § 411(c)](/us/pl/107/295/tIV/s4"
---
# § 3747. Date of rank upon promotion; entitlement to pay

##### § 3747. Date of rank upon promotion; entitlement to pay

(a) When a Reserve officer is promoted to the next higher grade under this subchapter, the date of rank shall be the date of appointment in that grade, unless the promotion was determined in accordance with a running mate system, in which event the same date of rank shall be assigned as that assigned to the officer’s running mate. A Reserve officer so promoted shall be allowed the pay and allowances of the higher grade for duty performed from the date of the officer’s appointment thereto.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to subsection (c), if promotion of an inactive duty promotion list officer to the grade of rear admiral or rear admiral (lower half) is determined in accordance with a running mate system, a reserve officer, if acceptable to the President and the Senate, shall be promoted to the next higher grade no later than the date the officer’s running mate is promoted.

(c) For the purposes of this section, the date of appointment shall be that date when promotion authority is exercised by the Secretary. However, the Secretary may adjust the date of appointment—

(1) if a delay in the finding required under [section 3745(a) of this title](/us/usc/t14/s3745/a) is beyond the control of the officer and the officer is otherwise qualified for promotion; or

(2) for any other reason that equity requires.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–322, § 1](/us/pl/96/322/s1), Aug. 4, 1980, [94 Stat. 1012](/us/stat/94/1012), § 736; amended [Pub. L. 97–417, § 2(14)](/us/pl/97/417/s2/14), Jan. 4, 1983, [96 Stat. 2086](/us/stat/96/2086); [Pub. L. 99–145, title V, § 514(c)(1)](/us/pl/99/145/tV/s514/c/1), Nov. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 629](/us/stat/99/629); [Pub. L. 101–225, title II, § 203(4)](/us/pl/101/225/tII/s203/4), Dec. 12, 1989, [103 Stat. 1911](/us/stat/103/1911); [Pub. L. 107–295, title IV, § 411(c)](/us/pl/107/295/tIV/s411/c), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2118](/us/stat/116/2118); [Pub. L. 108–293, title II, § 220(b)](/us/pl/108/293/tII/s220/b), (c), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/118/1039); renumbered § 3747 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 118(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4233](/us/stat/132/4233), 4240.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 784 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s784) prior to the complete revision of former chapter 21 of this title by [Pub. L. 96–322](/us/pl/96/322).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 118(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s118/b), renumbered [section 736 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s736) as this section.

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 3745(a)” for “section 734(a)”.

2004—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–293, § 220(b)](/us/pl/108/293/s220/b), amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows: “Notwithstanding any other law, when the running mate of a reserve officer serving in the grade of rear admiral (lower half) is promoted to the grade of rear admiral, the reserve officer shall also be promoted to that grade.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–293, § 220(c)](/us/pl/108/293/s220/c), struck out “of subsection (a)” after “For the purposes”.

2002—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–295](/us/pl/107/295) inserted “the date of rank shall be the date of appointment in that grade, unless the promotion was determined in accordance with a running mate system, in which event” after “subchapter,”.

1989—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 101–225](/us/pl/101/225) inserted provision authorizing Secretary to adjust date of appointment.

1985—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–145](/us/pl/99/145) substituted “rear admiral (lower half)” for “commodore”.

1983—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 97–417](/us/pl/97/417) substituted provision that, notwithstanding any other law, when the running mate of a reserve officer serving in the grade of commodore is promoted to the grade of rear admiral, the reserve officer shall also be promoted to that grade, for provision that, notwithstanding any other law and when a Reserve officer’s running mate was so entitled, a Reserve officer in the grade of rear admiral was entitled to the pay and allowances of the upper half for duty performed.
