---
title: "§ 4008. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S4008"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section4008"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–383, title VI, § 609](/us/pl/105/383/tVI/s609), formerly § 608, as added [Pub. L. 113–124, § 10(a)](/us/pl/113/124/s10/a), June 30, 2014, [128 Stat. 1385](/us/stat/128/1385); renumbered § 609, [Pub. L. 117–144, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/144/s2/a/1), June 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/136/1266).)"
---
# § 4008. Definitions

##### § 4008. Definitions

(1) Action Strategy The term “Action Strategy” means the comprehensive research plan and action strategy established under [section 4003 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s4003).

(2) Administrator The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

(3) Harmful algal bloom The term “harmful algal bloom” means marine and freshwater phytoplankton that proliferate to high concentrations, resulting in nuisance conditions or harmful impacts on marine and aquatic ecosystems, coastal communities, and human health through the production of toxic compounds or other biological, chemical, and physical impacts of the algae outbreak.

(4) Hypoxia The term “hypoxia” means a condition where low dissolved oxygen in aquatic systems causes stress or death to resident organisms.

(5) Program The term “Program” means the national harmful algal bloom and hypoxia program established under [section 4002 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s4002).

(6) State The term “State” means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, any other territory or possession of the United States, and any Indian tribe.

(7) Task Force The term “Task Force” means the Inter-Agency Task Force on Harmful Algal Blooms and Hypoxia under [section 4001(a) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s4001/a).

(8) Under Secretary The term “Under Secretary” means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.

(9) United States coastal waters The term “United States coastal waters” includes the Great Lakes.

*([Pub. L. 105–383, title VI, § 609](/us/pl/105/383/tVI/s609), formerly § 608, as added [Pub. L. 113–124, § 10(a)](/us/pl/113/124/s10/a), June 30, 2014, [128 Stat. 1385](/us/stat/128/1385); renumbered § 609, [Pub. L. 117–144, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/144/s2/a/1), June 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/136/1266).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 609 of Pub. L. 105–383](/us/pl/105/383/s609) was renumbered section 610 and is classified to [section 4009 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s4009).
