---
title: "§ 1159. Floating drydock for United States Coast Guard Yard"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1159"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1159"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7214(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7214/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/139/1695).)"
---
# § 1159. Floating drydock for United States Coast Guard Yard

##### § 1159. Floating drydock for United States Coast Guard Yard

(a) In General.— Except as provided in subsection (b), the Commandant, using funds appropriated pursuant to section 1181, may not acquire, procure, or construct a floating dry dock for the Coast Guard Yard.

(b) Permissible Acquisition, Procurement, or Construction Methods.— Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section and section 1105(a), the Commandant may—

(1) provide for an entity other than the Coast Guard to contract for the acquisition, procurement, or construction of a floating drydock by contract, purchase, or other agreement;

(2) construct a floating drydock at the Coast Guard Yard; or

(3) acquire or procure a commercially available floating drydock.

(c) Design Standards and Construction Practices.— To the extent practicable, a floating drydock acquired, procured, or constructed under this section shall reflect commercial design standards and commercial construction practices that are consistent with the best interests of the Federal Government.

(d) Berthing Requirement.— Any floating drydock acquired, procured, or constructed under subsection (b) shall be berthed at the Coast Guard Yard in Baltimore, Maryland, when lifting or maintaining vessels.

(e) Floating Drydock Defined.— In this section, the term “floating drydock” means equipment that is—

(1) constructed in the United States; and

(2) capable of meeting the lifting and maintenance requirements of an Offshore Patrol Cutter or a National Security Cutter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7214(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7214/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/139/1695).)*
