---
title: "§ 21002. Allocation of funds"
identifier: "USC-T52-S21002"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section21002"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 252](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s252), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1693](/us/stat/116/1693).)"
---
# § 21002. Allocation of funds

##### § 21002. Allocation of funds

(a) In general Subject to subsection (c), the amount of a requirements payment made to a State for a year shall be equal to the product of—

(1) the total amount appropriated for requirements payments for the year pursuant to the authorization under [section 21007 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s21007); and

(2) the State allocation percentage for the State (as determined under subsection (b)).

(b) State allocation percentage defined The “State allocation percentage” for a State is the amount (expressed as a percentage) equal to the quotient of—

(1) the voting age population of the State (as reported in the most recent decennial census); and

(2) the total voting age population of all States (as reported in the most recent decennial census).

(c) Minimum amount of payment The amount of a requirements payment made to a State for a year may not be less than—

(1) in the case of any of the several States or the District of Columbia, one-half of 1 percent of the total amount appropriated for requirements payments for the year under [section 21007 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s21007); or

(2) in the case of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the United States Virgin Islands, one-tenth of 1 percent of such total amount.

(d) Pro rata reductions The Administrator 11 So in original. Probably should be “Commission”. shall make such pro rata reductions to the allocations determined under subsection (a) as are necessary to comply with the requirements of subsection (c).

(e) Continuing availability of funds after appropriation A requirements payment made to a State under this subpart shall be available to the State without fiscal year limitation.

*([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 252](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s252), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1693](/us/stat/116/1693).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15402 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15402), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
