---
title: "§ 4401. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–164, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/98/164/tIV/s402), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/97/1038).)"
---
# § 4401. Findings

##### § 4401. Findings

(1) The Asia Foundation, a private nonprofit corporation incorporated in 1954 in the State of California, has long been active in promoting Asian-American friendship and cooperation and in lending encouragement and assistance to Asians in their own efforts to develop more open, more just, and more democratic societies;

(2) The Asia Foundation’s commitment to strengthening indigenous Asian institutions which further stable national development, constructive social change, equitable economic growth, and cooperative international relationships is fully consistent with and supportive of long-term United States interests in Asia;

(3) The Asia Foundation, as a private organization, is able to conduct programs in response to Asian initiatives that would be difficult or impossible for an official United States instrumentality, and it is in a position in Asia to respond quickly and flexibly to meet new opportunities;

(4) in recognition of the valuable contributions of The Asia Foundation to long-range United States foreign policy interests, the United States Government has, through a variety of agencies, provided financial support for The Asia Foundation; and

(5) it is in the interest of the United States, and the further strengthening of Asian-American friendship and cooperation, to establish a more permanent mechanism for United States Government financial support for the ongoing activities of The Asia Foundation, while preserving the independent character of the Foundation.

*([Pub. L. 98–164, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/98/164/tIV/s402), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/97/1038).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 98–164, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/98/164/tIV/s401), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/97/1038), provided that: “This title [enacting this subchapter] may be cited as ‘The Asia Foundation Act’.”

For short title of title V of [Pub. L. 98–164](/us/pl/98/164), which enacted subchapter II of this chapter, as the “National Endowment for Democracy Act”, see [section 501 of Pub. L. 98–164](/us/pl/98/164/s501), set out as a Short Title note under [section 4411 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4411).
