---
title: "§ 1111. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T6-S1111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title6-section1111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "6"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XIII, § 1301](/us/pl/110/53/tXIII/s1301), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 389](/us/stat/121/389).)"
---
# § 1111. Definitions

##### § 1111. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

(2) Department The term “Department” means the Department of Homeland Security.

(3) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Homeland Security.

(4) State The term “State” means any one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

(5) Terrorism The term “terrorism” has the meaning that term has in [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t6/s101).

(6) United States The term “United States” means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XIII, § 1301](/us/pl/110/53/tXIII/s1301), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 389](/us/stat/121/389).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title XIII of [Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 389](/us/stat/121/389), which enacted this subchapter and amended [section 70105 of Title 46](/us/usc/t46/s70105), Shipping, and sections 114 and 46301 of Title 49, Transportation. For complete classification of title XIII to the Code, see Tables.
