---
title: "§ 3199. Counseling and job placement"
identifier: "USC-T29-S3199"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section3199"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 149](/us/pl/113/128/tI/s149), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1548](/us/stat/128/1548).)"
---
# § 3199. Counseling and job placement

##### § 3199. Counseling and job placement

(a) Assessment and counseling The Secretary shall arrange for assessment and counseling for each enrollee at regular intervals to measure progress in the academic and career and technical education and training programs carried out through the Job Corps.

(b) Placement The Secretary shall arrange for assessment and counseling for enrollees prior to their scheduled graduations to determine their capabilities and, based on their capabilities, shall place the enrollees in employment leading to economic self-sufficiency for which the enrollees are trained or assist the enrollees in participating in further activities described in this part. In arranging for the placement of graduates in jobs, the Secretary shall utilize the one-stop delivery system to the maximum extent practicable.

(c) Status and progress The Secretary shall determine the status and progress of enrollees scheduled for graduation and make every effort to assure that their needs for further activities described in this part are met.

(d) Services to former enrollees The Secretary may provide such services as the Secretary determines to be appropriate under this part to former enrollees.

*([Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 149](/us/pl/113/128/tI/s149), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1548](/us/stat/128/1548).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 (July 1, 2015), see [section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128/s506), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3101).
