---
title: "§ 1161r. Campus-based digital theft prevention"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1161r"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1161r"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title VIII, § 871](/us/pl/89/329/tVIII/s871), as added [Pub. L. 110–315, title VIII, § 801](/us/pl/110/315/tVIII/s801), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3425](/us/stat/122/3425).)"
---
# § 1161r. Campus-based digital theft prevention

##### § 1161r. Campus-based digital theft prevention

(a) Program authority From the amounts appropriated under subsection (d), the Secretary may make grants to institutions of higher education, or consortia of such institutions, and enter into contracts with such institutions, consortia, and other organizations, to develop, implement, operate, improve, and disseminate programs of prevention, education, and cost-effective technological solutions, to reduce and eliminate the illegal downloading and distribution of intellectual property. Such grants or contracts may also be used for the support of higher education centers that will provide training, technical assistance, evaluation, dissemination, and associated services and assistance to the higher education community as determined by the Secretary and institutions of higher education.

(b) Awards Grants and contracts shall be awarded under this section on a competitive basis.

(c) Applications An institution of higher education or a consortium of such institutions that desires to receive a grant or contract under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require by regulation.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2009 and each of the five succeeding fiscal years.

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title VIII, § 871](/us/pl/89/329/tVIII/s871), as added [Pub. L. 110–315, title VIII, § 801](/us/pl/110/315/tVIII/s801), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3425](/us/stat/122/3425).)*
