---
title: "§ 9269d. Exception relating to importation of goods"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9269d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9269d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7147](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7147), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2257](/us/stat/133/2257).)"
---
# § 9269d. Exception relating to importation of goods

##### § 9269d. Exception relating to importation of goods

(a) In general The authorities and requirements to impose sanctions authorized under this subtitle 11 See References in Text note below. or any amendment made by this subtitle shall not include the authority or requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.

(b) Good defined In this section, the term “good” means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7147](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7147), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2257](/us/stat/133/2257).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in subsec. (a), is subtitle A of title LXXI of div. F of [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2244](/us/stat/133/2244), which enacted this subchapter and sections 262p–13, 286yy, 9221b, and 9221c of this title, amended sections 9202, 9212, 9214, 9223, 9224, 9228, 9241, and 9251 of this title, repealed sections 262p–13 and 286yy of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 262p–13 and 286yy of this title. For complete classification of this subtitle to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and Enforcement Act of 2019, and also as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, and not as part of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 which comprises this chapter.
