---
title: "§ 3128. Proof of death to support payment"
identifier: "USC-T31-S3128"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section3128"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 947](/us/stat/96/947).)"
---
# § 3128. Proof of death to support payment

##### § 3128. Proof of death to support payment

A finding of death made by an officer or employee of the United States Government authorized by law to make the finding is sufficient proof of death to allow credit in the accounts of a Federal reserve bank or accountable official of the Department of the Treasury in a case involving the transfer, exchange, reissue, redemption, or payment of obligations of the Government, including obligations guaranteed by the Government for which the Secretary of the Treasury acts as transfer agent.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 947](/us/stat/96/947).)*

The words “officer or employee” are substituted for “official or agency” for clarity and consistency with other titles of the United States Code. The word “Government” is added for consistency. The words “section 1005 of Appendix to title 50” are omitted because the section was repealed by [section 8(a) of the Act of Sept. 6, 1966](/us/act/1966-09-06/s8/a) ([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), [80 Stat. 651](/us/stat/80/651)). The words “or by any other” are omitted as surplus. The words “or by the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Navy” are omitted because of 10:ch. 75. The word “official” is substituted for “officer” for consistency. The words “bonds and other” are omitted as surplus. The words “Secretary of the Treasury” are substituted for “Treasury Department” for accuracy and consistency.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 3128 | 31:757d. | Sept. 24, 1917, ch. 56, 40 Stat. 288, § 23; added Apr. 3, 1945, ch. 51, § 4, 59 Stat. 48. |
