---
title: "§ 6003. Issuance of plans"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6003"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6003"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1908](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1908), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3841](/us/stat/104/3841).)"
---
# § 6003. Issuance of plans

##### § 6003. Issuance of plans

(a) In general To effectuate the declared policy of [section 6001(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6001/b), the Secretary shall, subject to this chapter, issue and from time to time amend, plans applicable to growers, grower-shellers, shellers, first handlers, and importers of pecans. Any such plan shall be national in scope. Not more than one plan shall be in effect under this chapter at any one time.

(b) Procedure

(1) Proposal for issuance of plan The Secretary may propose the issuance of a plan under this chapter, or an association of pecan growers or grower-shellers or any other person that will be affected by this chapter may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for, such a plan.

(2) Proposed plan Not later than 60 days after the receipt of a request and proposal by an interested person for a plan, or when the Secretary determines to propose a plan, the Secretary shall publish a proposed plan and give due notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed plan.

(3) Issuance of plan After notice and opportunity for public comment are given, as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue a plan, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the plan provisions necessary to ensure that the plan is in conformity with the requirements of this chapter.

(4) Effective date of plan Such plan shall be issued and become effective not later than 150 days following publication of the proposed plan.

(c) Amendments The Secretary, from time to time, may amend any plan issued under this section. The provisions of this chapter applicable to a plan shall be applicable to amendments to a plan.

*([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1908](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1908), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3841](/us/stat/104/3841).)*
