---
title: "§ 4110. War Claims Fund"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title I, § 13, [62 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/62/1247); 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 19, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1271](/us/stat/64/1271); [Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1162](/us/act/1954-08-31/ch1162), title I, § 104, [68 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/68/1036); [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 102](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s102), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)"
---
# § 4110. War Claims Fund

##### § 4110. War Claims Fund

(a) Composition; expenditure There is hereby created on the books of the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the War Claims Fund. The War Claims Fund shall consist of all sums covered into the Treasury pursuant to the provisions of [section 4336 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4336). The moneys in such fund shall be available for expenditure only as provided in this chapter or as may be provided hereafter by the Congress.

(b) Estimation and certification to Treasury of total amount necessary under section 4104(f) Before August 1, 1956, the Secretary of Labor shall estimate and report to the President the total amount which will be required to pay all benefits payable by reason of [section 4104(f) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4104/f). If the President approves the amount so estimated as reasonably accurate, the total amount so estimated and approved shall be certified to the Secretary of the Treasury; if the President does not so approve he shall determine such amount, and the amount so determined shall be certified to the Secretary of the Treasury. Such certification shall be made on or before September 1, 1956. The Secretary of the Treasury shall then transfer from the War Claims Fund to the general fund of the Treasury a sum equal to the total amount certified to him under this subsection.

(c) Estimation and certification to Treasury of total amount necessary under section 4103(c) Before August 1, 1956, the Secretary of Labor shall estimate and report to the President the total amount which will be required to pay all additional benefits payable as a result of the enactment of [section 4103(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4103/c). If the President approves the amount so estimated as reasonably accurate, the total amount so estimated and approved shall be certified to the Secretary of the Treasury; if the President does not so approve, he shall determine such amount, and the amount so determined shall be certified to the Secretary of the Treasury. Such certification shall be made on or before September 1, 1956. The Secretary of the Treasury shall then transfer from the War Claims Fund to the general fund of the Treasury a sum equal to the total amount certified to him under this subsection.

(d) Certification to Treasury of total canceled obligations under section 4103(b)(1) On or before August 1, 1956, the Secretary of State is authorized and directed to certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the total amount of all obligations canceled pursuant to the provisions of [section 4103(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4103/b/1). The Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer from the war claims fund to the general fund of the Treasury an amount equal to the total amount so certified.

(e) Authorization of appropriations for Commission’s work There are hereby authorized to be appropriated, out of any money in the war claims fund, such sums as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions under this subchapter.

*([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title I, § 13, [62 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/62/1247); 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 19, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1271](/us/stat/64/1271); [Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1162](/us/act/1954-08-31/ch1162), title I, § 104, [68 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/68/1036); [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 102](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s102), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), [62 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/62/1240), known as the War Claims Act of 1948, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4101) and Tables.

[Section 4103(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4103/c), referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “[section 4(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4/c)”, meaning section 4(c) of title I of [act July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), which amended [section 1702 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1702), The Public Health and Welfare, and was classified to [section 4103(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4103/c) and omitted from the Code.

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (e), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [act July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), [62 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/62/1240), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2012 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1962—Subsecs. (b) to (e). [Pub. L. 87–846](/us/pl/87/846) made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text of subsec. (b) as reference to [section 4104(f) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4104/f), in subsec. (c) as reference to [section 4103(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4103/c), in subsec. (d) as reference to [section 4103(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4103/b/1), and in subsec. (e) as reference to this subchapter.

1954—Subsec. (b). Act Aug. 31, 1954, § 104(a), provided that President may approve or disapprove of Secretary of Labor’s estimate, and if he disapproves he shall estimate total amount of claims under [section 4104(f) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4104/f), and provided that all transfers which are to be made from the War Claims Fund to the Treasury general fund shall be made before Aug. 1, 1956.

Subsec. (c). Act Aug. 31, 1954, § 104(a), provided that President may approve or disapprove Secretary of Labor’s estimate, and if he disapproves he shall estimate total amount of claims under [section 4103(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4103/c), and provided that all transfers which are to be made from War Claims Fund to Treasury general fund shall be made before Aug. 1, 1956.

Subsec. (d). Act Aug. 31, 1954, § 104(b), inserted “on or before August 1, 1956” before “Secretary of State”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For provisions transferring Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States to Department of Justice, as a separate agency, see section 1622a et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Labor” substituted for “Federal Security Administrator” in subsecs. (b) and (c) pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. 19 of 1950, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1271](/us/stat/64/1271), which transferred functions of Federal Security Administrator and Federal Security Agency under this section to Secretary of Labor with power to delegate and was set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), §8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 662](/us/stat/80/662). See [section 8145 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8145), Government Organization and Employees.

War Claims Commission, including offices of its members, abolished and functions transferred to Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1954, §§ 2, 4, eff. July 1, 1954, 19 F.R. 3985, [68 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/68/1279), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. See, also, [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4101) and notes thereunder.
