---
title: "§ 1403. Pesticide analytical methods"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1403"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1403"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–418, title IV, § 4704](/us/pl/100/418/tIV/s4704), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/102/1414).)"
---
# § 1403. Pesticide analytical methods

##### § 1403. Pesticide analytical methods

(1) develop a detailed long-range plan and timetable for research that is necessary for the development of and validation of—

(A) new and improved analytical methods capable of detecting at one time the presence of multiple pesticide residues in food, and

(B) rapid pesticide analytical methods, and

(2) conduct a review to determine whether the use of rapid pesticide analytical methods by the Secretary would enable the Secretary to improve the cost-effectiveness of monitoring and enforcement activities under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 301](/us/usc/t21/s301) et seq.], including increasing the number of pesticide residues which can be detected and the number of tests for pesticide residues which can be conducted in a cost-effective manner.

*([Pub. L. 100–418, title IV, § 4704](/us/pl/100/418/tIV/s4704), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/102/1414).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, referred to in text, is [act June 25, 1938, ch. 675](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675), [52 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/52/1040), which is classified generally to chapter 9 (§ 301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 301 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s301) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.
