---
title: "§ 14403. Restriction on use of Federal funds under certain grant programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S14403"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section14403"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–12, § 4](/us/pl/105/12/s4), Apr. 30, 1997, [111 Stat. 25](/us/stat/111/25); [Pub. L. 106–402, title IV, § 401(b)(15)(A)](/us/pl/106/402/tIV/s401/b/15/A), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1740](/us/stat/114/1740).)"
---
# § 14403. Restriction on use of Federal funds under certain grant programs

##### § 14403. Restriction on use of Federal funds under certain grant programs

Subject to [section 14402(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s14402/b) (relating to construction and treatment of certain services), no funds appropriated by Congress to carry out subtitle B, D, or E of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 [[42 U.S.C. 15021](/us/usc/t42/s15021) et seq., 15061 et seq., 15081 et seq.] may be used to support or fund any program or service which has a purpose of assisting in procuring any item, benefit, or service furnished for the purpose of causing, or the purpose of assisting in causing, the death of any individual, such as by assisted suicide, euthanasia, or mercy killing.

*([Pub. L. 105–12, § 4](/us/pl/105/12/s4), Apr. 30, 1997, [111 Stat. 25](/us/stat/111/25); [Pub. L. 106–402, title IV, § 401(b)(15)(A)](/us/pl/106/402/tIV/s401/b/15/A), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1740](/us/stat/114/1740).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 106–402](/us/pl/106/402), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/114/1677). Subtitles B, D, and E of the Act probably mean subtitles B, D, and E of title I of the Act, which are classified generally to parts B [§ 15021 et seq.], D [§ 15061 et seq.], and E [§ 15081 et seq.], respectively, of subchapter I of chapter 144 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 15001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15001) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2000—[Pub. L. 106–402, § 401(b)(15)(A)(i)](/us/pl/106/402/s401/b/15/A/i), substituted “Restriction on use of Federal funds under certain grant programs” for “Restriction on use of Federal funds under certain grant programs under the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act” in section catchline.

[Pub. L. 106–402, § 401(b)(15)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/106/402/s401/b/15/A/ii), substituted “subtitle B, D, or E of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000” for “part B, D, or E of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act”.
