---
title: "§ 6193. Sandia National Laboratories"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6193"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6193"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1397](/us/stat/139/1397).)"
---
# § 6193. Sandia National Laboratories

##### § 6193. Sandia National Laboratories

Funds appropriated by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 ([Public Law 108–199](/us/pl/108/199); [118 Stat. 3](/us/stat/118/3)), or any other Act thereafter, may not be obligated to pay, on behalf of the United States or a contractor or subcontractor of the United States, to post a bond or fulfill any other financial responsibility requirement relating to closure or post-closure care and monitoring of Sandia National Laboratories and properties held or managed by Sandia National Laboratories prior to implementation of closure or post-closure monitoring. The State of New Mexico or any other entity may not enforce against the United States or a contractor or subcontractor of the United States, in this year or any other fiscal year, a requirement to post bond or any other financial responsibility requirement relating to closure or postclosure care and monitoring of Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico and properties held or managed by Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1397](/us/stat/139/1397).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 108–199](/us/pl/108/199), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3](/us/stat/118/3). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 127 of Pub. L. 108–199](/us/pl/108/199/s127), which was set out as a note under [section 2602 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2602), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(17)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/17).
