---
title: "§ 8904. Towing vessels"
identifier: "USC-T46-S8904"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section8904"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 555](/us/stat/97/555); [Pub. L. 99–640, § 12(a)](/us/pl/99/640/s12/a), Nov. 10, 1986, [100 Stat. 3550](/us/stat/100/3550); [Pub. L. 108–293, title IV, § 409(a)](/us/pl/108/293/tIV/s409/a), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/118/1044).)"
---
# § 8904. Towing vessels

##### § 8904. Towing vessels

(a) A towing vessel that is at least 26 feet in length measured from end to end over the deck (excluding sheer), shall be operated by an individual licensed by the Secretary to operate that type of vessel in the particular geographic area, under prescribed regulations.

(b) A vessel that tows a disabled vessel for consideration shall be operated by an individual licensed by the Secretary to operate that type of vessel in the particular geographic area, under prescribed regulations.

(c) The Secretary may prescribe by regulation requirements for maximum hours of service (including recording and recordkeeping of that service) of individuals engaged on a towing vessel that is at least 26 feet in length measured from end to end over the deck (excluding the sheer).

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 555](/us/stat/97/555); [Pub. L. 99–640, § 12(a)](/us/pl/99/640/s12/a), Nov. 10, 1986, [100 Stat. 3550](/us/stat/100/3550); [Pub. L. 108–293, title IV, § 409(a)](/us/pl/108/293/tIV/s409/a), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/118/1044).)*

Section 8904 requires that a 26-foot or larger towing vessel be operated by a licensed individual for that type of vessel and for a particular geographic area.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 8904 | 46:405(b)(2) |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–293](/us/pl/108/293) added subsec. (c).

1986—[Pub. L. 99–640](/us/pl/99/640) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

[Pub. L. 99–640, § 12(b)](/us/pl/99/640/s12/b), Nov. 10, 1986, [100 Stat. 3551](/us/stat/100/3551), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) of this section [amending this section] shall take effect on January 1, 1988.”

#### Demonstration Project

[Pub. L. 108–293, title IV, § 409(b)](/us/pl/108/293/tIV/s409/b), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1045](/us/stat/118/1045), provided that: “Prior to prescribing regulations under this section [amending this section] the Secretary shall conduct and report to the Congress on the results of a demonstration project involving the implementation of Crew Endurance Management Systems on towing vessels. The report shall include a description of the public and private sector resources needed to enable implementation of Crew Endurance Management Systems on all United States-flag towing vessels.”
