---
title: "§ 17938. Business associate contracts required for certain entities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17938"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17938"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13408](/us/pl/111/5/dA/tXIII/s13408), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 271](/us/stat/123/271).)"
---
# § 17938. Business associate contracts required for certain entities

##### § 17938. Business associate contracts required for certain entities

Each organization, with respect to a covered entity, that provides data transmission of protected health information to such entity (or its business associate) and that requires access on a routine basis to such protected health information, such as a Health Information Exchange Organization, Regional Health Information Organization, E-prescribing Gateway, or each vendor that contracts with a covered entity to allow that covered entity to offer a personal health record to patients as part of its electronic health record, is required to enter into a written contract (or other written arrangement) described in section 164.502(e)(2) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations and a written contract (or other arrangement) described in section 164.308(b) of such title, with such entity and shall be treated as a business associate of the covered entity for purposes of the provisions of this subchapter and subparts C and E of part 164 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, as such provisions are in effect as of February 17, 2009.

*([Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13408](/us/pl/111/5/dA/tXIII/s13408), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 271](/us/stat/123/271).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle D (§ 13400 et seq.) of title XIII of div. A of [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 258](/us/stat/123/258), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of subtitle D to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 12 months after Feb. 17, 2009, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 13423 of Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5/s13423), set out as a note under [section 17931 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17931).
