---
title: "§ 9624. Methane recovery"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9624"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9624"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–510, title I, § 124](/us/pl/96/510/tI/s124), as added [Pub. L. 99–499, title I, § 124(a)](/us/pl/99/499/tI/s124/a), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/100/1688).)"
---
# § 9624. Methane recovery

##### § 9624. Methane recovery

(a) In general In the case of a facility at which equipment for the recovery or processing (including recirculation of condensate) of methane has been installed, for purposes of this chapter:

(1) The owner or operator of such equipment shall not be considered an “owner or operator”, as defined in [section 9601(20) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9601/20), with respect to such facility.

(2) The owner or operator of such equipment shall not be considered to have arranged for disposal or treatment of any hazardous substance at such facility pursuant to [section 9607 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9607).

(3) The owner or operator of such equipment shall not be subject to any action under [section 9606 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9606) with respect to such facility.

(b) Exceptions Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance from a facility described in subsection (a) if either of the following circumstances exist:

In the case of any release or threatened release referred to in paragraph (1), the owner or operator of the equipment described in subsection (a) shall be liable under this chapter only for costs or damages primarily caused by the activities of such owner or operator.

(1) The release or threatened release was primarily caused by activities of the owner or operator of the equipment described in subsection (a).

(2) The owner or operator of such equipment would be covered by paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) of subsection (a) of [section 9607 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9607) with respect to such release or threatened release if he were not the owner or operator of such equipment.

*([Pub. L. 96–510, title I, § 124](/us/pl/96/510/tI/s124), as added [Pub. L. 99–499, title I, § 124(a)](/us/pl/99/499/tI/s124/a), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/100/1688).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 96–510](/us/pl/96/510), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2767](/us/stat/94/2767), known as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9601 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9601) and Tables.
