---
title: "§ 195. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S195"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section195"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 15, 1917, ch. 30](/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30), title XIII, § 1, [40 Stat. 231](/us/stat/40/231); [Pub. L. 96–70, title III, § 3302(b)](/us/pl/96/70/tIII/s3302/b), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 498](/us/stat/93/498); [Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s104/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/116/2085).)"
---
# § 195. Definitions

##### § 195. Definitions

(1) United states.— The term “United States” includes all territory and waters, continental or insular, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(2) Territorial waters.— The term “territorial waters of the United States” includes all waters of the territorial sea of the United States as described in Presidential Proclamation 5928 of December 27, 1988.

*([June 15, 1917, ch. 30](/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30), title XIII, § 1, [40 Stat. 231](/us/stat/40/231); [Pub. L. 96–70, title III, § 3302(b)](/us/pl/96/70/tIII/s3302/b), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 498](/us/stat/93/498); [Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s104/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/116/2085).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, means [act June 15, 1917, ch. 30](/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30), [40 Stat. 217](/us/stat/40/217). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Presidential Proclamation 5928 of December 27, 1988, referred to in par. (2), is set out as a note under [section 1331 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1331), Public Lands.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 40 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s40). In the original this section defined “United States” as used in act June 15, 1917. Other provisions of that act were contained in sections 31 to 42 of this title and certain sections of former Title 18, Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure. The definition of “United States” as used in present provisions derived from those former sections is covered by [section 5 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s5), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Amendments

2002—[Pub. L. 107–295](/us/pl/107/295) added introductory provisions, designated existing provisions as par. (1), inserted heading, struck out “as used in this Act” before “includes”, and added par. (2).

1979—[Pub. L. 96–70](/us/pl/96/70) struck out “the Canal Zone and” after “this Act includes”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–70](/us/pl/96/70) effective Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 3304 of Pub. L. 96–70](/us/pl/96/70/s3304), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3601 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3601), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Separability

[Act June 15, 1917, ch. 30, title XIII, § 4](/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30/tXIII/s4), [40 Stat. 231](/us/stat/40/231), provided: “If any clause, sentence, paragraph, or part of this Act [see Tables for classification] shall for any reason be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder thereof but shall be confined in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph, or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered.”
