---
title: "§ 10513. Application requirements"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10513"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10513"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2403](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2403), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXI, § 210302(c)(1)(C)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXI/s210302/c/1/C), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2066](/us/stat/108/2066); amended [Pub. L. 106–546, § 8(b)](/us/pl/106/546/s8/b), Dec. 19, 2000, [114 Stat. 2735](/us/stat/114/2735).)"
---
# § 10513. Application requirements

##### § 10513. Application requirements

(1) DNA analyses performed at the laboratory will satisfy or exceed then current standards for a quality assurance program for DNA analysis issued by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation under [section 12591 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12591).11 So in original. The period probably should be a semicolon.

(2) DNA samples obtained by and DNA analyses performed at the laboratory shall be made available only—

(A) to criminal justice agencies for law enforcement identification purposes;

(B) in judicial proceedings, if otherwise admissible pursuant to applicable statutes or rules;

(C) for criminal defense purposes, to a defendant, who shall have access to samples and analyses performed in connection with the case in which the defendant is charged; or

(D) if personally identifiable information is removed, for a population statistics database, for identification research and protocol development purposes, or for quality control purposes; and

(3) the laboratory and each analyst performing DNA analyses at the laboratory shall undergo semiannual external proficiency testing by a DNA proficiency testing program that meets the standards issued under [section 12591 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12591).

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2403](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2403), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXI, § 210302(c)(1)(C)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXI/s210302/c/1/C), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2066](/us/stat/108/2066); amended [Pub. L. 106–546, § 8(b)](/us/pl/106/546/s8/b), Dec. 19, 2000, [114 Stat. 2735](/us/stat/114/2735).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796kk–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796kk–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2000—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 106–546](/us/pl/106/546) substituted “semiannual” for “, at regular intervals not exceeding 180 days,”.
