---
title: "§ 20986. Children’s safety online awareness campaigns"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20986"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20986"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 629](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s629), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 640](/us/stat/120/640).)"
---
# § 20986. Children’s safety online awareness campaigns

##### § 20986. Children’s safety online awareness campaigns

(a) Awareness campaign for children’s safety online

(1) In general The Attorney General, in consultation with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, is authorized to develop and carry out a public awareness campaign to demonstrate, explain, and encourage children, parents, and community leaders to better protect children when such children are on the Internet.

(2) Required components The public awareness campaign described under paragraph (1) shall include components that compliment 11 So in original. Probably should be “complement”. and reinforce the campaign message in a variety of media, including the Internet, television, radio, and billboards.

(b) Awareness campaign regarding the accessibility and utilization of sex offender registries The Attorney General, in consultation with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, is authorized to develop and carry out a public awareness campaign to demonstrate, explain, and encourage parents and community leaders to better access and utilize the Federal and State sex offender registries.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as are necessary for fiscal years 2007 through 2011.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 629](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s629), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 640](/us/stat/120/640).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16986 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16986), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
