---
title: "§ 3847. Data on conservation practices"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3847"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3847"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–198, title XII, § 1247](/us/pl/99/198/tXII/s1247), as added [Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12618](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12618), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 5017](/us/stat/132/5017).)"
---
# § 3847. Data on conservation practices

##### § 3847. Data on conservation practices

(a) Data on conservation practices The Secretary shall identify available data sets within the Department of Agriculture regarding the use of conservation practices and the effect of such practices on farm and ranch profitability (including such effects relating to crop yields, soil health, and other risk-related factors).

(b) Report Not later than 1 year after December 20, 2018, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that includes—

(1) a summary of the data sets identified under subsection (a);

(2) a summary of the steps the Secretary would have to take to provide access to such data sets by university researchers, including taking into account any technical, privacy, or administrative considerations;

(3) a summary of safeguards the Secretary employs when providing access to data to university researchers;

(4) a summary of appropriate procedures to maximize the potential for research benefits while preventing any violations of privacy or confidentiality; and

(5) recommendations for any necessary authorizations or clarifications of Federal law to allow access to such data sets to maximize the potential for research benefits.

*([Pub. L. 99–198, title XII, § 1247](/us/pl/99/198/tXII/s1247), as added [Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12618](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12618), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 5017](/us/stat/132/5017).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3847, [Pub. L. 99–198, title XII, § 1247](/us/pl/99/198/tXII/s1247), as added [Pub. L. 101–624, title XIV, § 1445](/us/pl/101/624/tXIV/s1445), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3603](/us/stat/104/3603); amended [Pub. L. 102–237, title II, § 204(8)](/us/pl/102/237/tII/s204/8), Dec. 13, 1991, [105 Stat. 1855](/us/stat/105/1855), which related to assistance for control of spread of weeds and pests, was omitted in the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 104–127](/us/pl/104/127).
