---
title: "§ 285a–7. Prostate cancer"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285a–7"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285a–7"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 417A, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/103/43/tIV/s402), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 155](/us/stat/107/155).)"
---
# § 285a–7. Prostate cancer

##### § 285a–7. Prostate cancer

(a) Expansion and coordination of activities The Director of the Institute, in consultation with the National Cancer Advisory Board, shall expand, intensify, and coordinate the activities of the Institute with respect to research on prostate cancer.

(b) Coordination with other institutes The Director of the Institute shall coordinate the activities of the Director under subsection (a) with similar activities conducted by other national research institutes and agencies of the National Institutes of Health to the extent that such Institutes 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. and agencies have responsibilities that are related to prostate cancer.

(c) Programs

(1) In general In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the Institute shall conduct or support research to expand the understanding of the cause of, and to find a cure for, prostate cancer. Activities under such subsection shall provide for an expansion and intensification of the conduct and support of—

Not less than six centers shall be operated under subparagraph (G). Activities of such centers should include supporting new and innovative research and training programs for new researchers. Such centers shall give priority to expediting the transfer of research advances to clinical applications.

(A) basic research concerning the etiology and causes of prostate cancer;

(B) clinical research and related activities concerning the causes, prevention, detection and treatment of prostate cancer;

(C) prevention and control and early detection programs with respect to prostate cancer in accordance with [section 285a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–1), particularly as it relates to intensifying research on the role of prostate specific antigen for the screening and early detection of prostate cancer;

(D) an Inter-Institute Task Force, under the direction of the Director of the Institute, to provide coordination between relevant National Institutes of Health components of research efforts on prostate cancer;

(E) control programs with respect to prostate cancer in accordance with [section 285a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–1);

(F) information and education programs with respect to prostate cancer in accordance with [section 285a–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–2); and

(G) research and demonstration centers with respect to prostate cancer in accordance with [section 285a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–3), including the development and operation of centers for prostate cancer research to bring together basic and clinical, biomedical and behavioral scientists to conduct basic, clinical, epidemiological, psychosocial, prevention and control, treatment, research, and related activities on prostate cancer.

(2) Implementation of plan for programs

(A) The Director of the Institute shall ensure that the research programs described in paragraph (1) are implemented in accordance with a plan for the programs. Such plan shall include comments and recommendations that the Director of the Institute considers appropriate, with due consideration provided to the professional judgment needs of the Institute as expressed in the annual budget estimate prepared in accordance with section 285a–2(9) 22 So in original. Probably should be section “285a–2(b)(9)”. of this title. The Director of the Institute, in consultation with the National Cancer Advisory Board, shall periodically review and revise such plan.

(B) Not later than October 1, 1993, the Director of the Institute shall submit a copy of the plan to the President’s Cancer Panel, the Secretary, and the Director of NIH.

(C) The Director of the Institute shall submit any revisions of the plan to the President’s Cancer Panel, the Secretary, and the Director of NIH.

(D) The Secretary shall provide a copy of the plan submitted under subparagraph (A), and any revisions submitted under subparagraph (C), to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 417A, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/103/43/tIV/s402), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 155](/us/stat/107/155).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.

Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.
