---
title: "§ 4369. Miscellaneous reports"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4369"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4369"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–477, § 5](/us/pl/95/477/s5), Oct. 18, 1978, [92 Stat. 1510](/us/stat/92/1510); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 15(c)(6)](/us/pl/103/437/s15/c/6), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4592](/us/stat/108/4592).)"
---
# § 4369. Miscellaneous reports

##### § 4369. Miscellaneous reports

(a) Availability to Congressional committees All reports to or by the Administrator relevant to the Agency’s program of research, development, and demonstration shall promptly be made available to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate, unless otherwise prohibited by law.

(b) Transmittal of jurisdictional information The Administrator shall keep the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate fully and currently informed with respect to matters falling within or related to the jurisdiction of the committees.

(c) Comment by Government agencies and the public The reports provided for in section 5910 11 See References in Text note below. of this title shall be made available to the public for comment, and to the heads of affected agencies for comment and, in the case of recommendations for action, for response.

(d) Transmittal of research information to the Department of Energy For the purpose of assisting the Department of Energy in planning and assigning priorities in research development and demonstration activities related to environmental control technologies, the Administrator shall actively make available to the Department all information on research activities and results of research programs of the Environmental Protection Agency.

*([Pub. L. 95–477, § 5](/us/pl/95/477/s5), Oct. 18, 1978, [92 Stat. 1510](/us/stat/92/1510); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 15(c)(6)](/us/pl/103/437/s15/c/6), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4592](/us/stat/108/4592).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 5910 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5910), referred to in subsec. (c), was repealed by [Pub. L. 104–66, title II, § 2021(i)](/us/pl/104/66/tII/s2021/i), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 727](/us/stat/109/727).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Environmental Research, Development, and Demonstration Authorization Act of 1979, and not as part of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1994—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Science, Space, and Technology” for “Science and Technology”.
