---
title: "§ 2901. Congressional statement of findings and declaration of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–118, § 2](/us/pl/94/118/s2), Oct. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 603](/us/stat/89/603).)"
---
# § 2901. Congressional statement of findings and declaration of purpose

##### § 2901. Congressional statement of findings and declaration of purpose

(a) The Congress hereby finds that—

(1) the post-World War II evolution of the relationship between Japan and the United States to peacetime friendship and partnership is one of the most significant developments of the postwar period;

(2) the Agreement Between Japan and the United States of America Concerning the Ryukyu Islands and the Daito Islands, signed at Washington and Tokyo on June 17, 1971, is a major achievement and symbol of the new relationship between the United States and Japan; and

(3) the continuation of close United States-Japan friendship and cooperation will make a vital contribution to the prospects for peace, prosperity, and security in Asia and the world.

(b) It is therefore the purpose of this chapter to provide for the use of an amount equal to a part of the total sum payable by Japan to the United States in connection with the reversion of Okinawa to Japanese administration and the remaining funds of the amount set aside in 1962 for educational and cultural exchange with Japan (known as the G.A.R.I.O.A. Account) to aid education and culture at the highest level in order to enhance reciprocal people-to-people understanding and to support the close friendship and mutuality of interests between the United States and Japan.

*([Pub. L. 94–118, § 2](/us/pl/94/118/s2), Oct. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 603](/us/stat/89/603).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 94–118, § 1](/us/pl/94/118/s1), Oct. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 603](/us/stat/89/603), provided: “That this Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Japan-United States Friendship Act’.”
