---
title: "§ 9252. Termination of sanctions and other measures"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9252"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9252"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–122, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/114/122/tIV/s402), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 115](/us/stat/130/115).)"
---
# § 9252. Termination of sanctions and other measures

##### § 9252. Termination of sanctions and other measures

(1) met the requirements set forth in [section 9251 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9251); and

(2) made significant progress toward—

(A) completely, verifiably, and irreversibly dismantling all of its nuclear, chemical, biological, and radiological weapons programs, including all programs for the development of systems designed in whole or in part for the delivery of such weapons;

(B) releasing all political prisoners, including the citizens of North Korea detained in North Korea’s political prison camps;

(C) ceasing its censorship of peaceful political activity;

(D) establishing an open, transparent, and representative society; and

(E) fully accounting for and repatriating United States citizens (including deceased United States citizens)—

(i) abducted or unlawfully held captive by the Government of North Korea; or

(ii) detained in violation of the Agreement Concerning a Military Armistice in Korea, signed at Panmunjom July 27, 1953 (commonly referred to as the “Korean War Armistice Agreement”).

*([Pub. L. 114–122, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/114/122/tIV/s402), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 115](/us/stat/130/115).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subchapter I, II, or III (or any amendment made by such subchapters), referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “title I, II, or III (or any amendment made by such titles)”, meaning titles I, II, and III of [Pub. L. 114–122](/us/pl/114/122), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 98](/us/stat/130/98), 101, 112. Titles I and III are classified principally to subchapters I and III, respectively, of this chapter. Title II is classified generally to subchapter II of this chapter. For complete classification of titles I, II, and III of [Pub. L. 114–122](/us/pl/114/122) to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions and authorities of President under this section delegated to Secretary of State, to be executed in consultation with Secretary of the Treasury when appropriate, by Memorandum of President of the United States, May 18, 2016, 81 F.R. 37479, set out as a note under [section 9212 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9212).
