---
title: "§ 6339. Limitation on establishing an enduring bioassurance program within the administration"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6339"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6339"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1452](/us/stat/139/1452).)"
---
# § 6339. Limitation on establishing an enduring bioassurance program within the administration

##### § 6339. Limitation on establishing an enduring bioassurance program within the administration

(a) In General.— The Administrator may not establish, administer, manage, or facilitate a program within the Administration for the purposes of executing an enduring national security research and development effort to broaden the role of the Department of Energy in national biodefense.

(b) Rule of Construction.— The limitation described in subsection (a) shall not be interpreted—

(1) to prohibit the establishment of a bioassurance program for the purpose of executing enduring national security research and development in any component of the Department of Energy other than the Administration or in any other Federal agency; or

(2) to impede the use of resources of the Administration, including resources provided by a national security laboratory or a nuclear weapons production facility site, to support the execution of a bioassurance program, if such support is provided—

(A) on a cost-reimbursable basis to an entity that is not a component of the Department of Energy; and

(B) in a manner that does not interfere with mission of such laboratory or facility.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1452](/us/stat/139/1452).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2796 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2796), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
