---
title: "§ 10107. Division of Applied Law Enforcement Technology"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 107](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s107), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1160(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1160/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3117](/us/stat/119/3117).)"
---
# § 10107. Division of Applied Law Enforcement Technology

##### § 10107. Division of Applied Law Enforcement Technology

(a) Establishment There is established within the Office of Science and Technology, the Division of Applied Law Enforcement Technology, headed by an individual appointed by the Attorney General. The purpose of the Division shall be to provide leadership and focus to those grants of the Department of Justice that are made for the purpose of using or improving law enforcement computer systems.

(b) Duties In carrying out the purpose of the Division, the head of the Division shall—

(1) establish clear minimum standards for computer systems that can be purchased using amounts awarded under such grants; and

(2) ensure that recipients of such grants use such systems to participate in crime reporting programs administered by the Department, such as Uniform Crime Reports or the National Incident-Based Reporting System.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 107](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s107), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1160(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1160/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3117](/us/stat/119/3117).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3712f of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3712f), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1160(b)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1160/b), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3117](/us/stat/119/3117), as amended by [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(n)(4)(A)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/n/4/A), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 768](/us/stat/120/768), provided that: “This section [enacting this section] and the amendment made by this section take effect on October 1, 2006.”
