---
title: "§ 6803. Issuance of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6803"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6803"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–190, § 4](/us/pl/103/190/s4), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2271](/us/stat/107/2271).)"
---
# § 6803. Issuance of orders

##### § 6803. Issuance of orders

(a) In general

(1) Issuance To effectuate the policy of this chapter specified in [section 6801(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6801/b), the Secretary, subject to the procedures provided in subsection (b), shall issue orders under this chapter applicable to qualified handlers of cut flowers and cut greens.

(2) Scope Any order shall be national in scope.

(3) One order Not more than 1 order shall be in effect at any 1 time.

(b) Procedures

(1) Proposal for an order

(A) Secretary The Secretary may propose the issuance of an order.

(B) Other persons An industry group that represents a substantial number of the industry members who are to be assessed under the order, or any other person who will be affected by this chapter, may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for, an order.

(2) Publication of proposal The Secretary shall publish a proposed order and give notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order not later than 60 days after the earlier of—

(A) the date on which the Secretary proposes an order, as provided in paragraph (1)(A); and

(B) the date of the receipt by the Secretary of a proposal for an order, as provided in paragraph (1)(B).

(3) Issuance of order

(A) In general After notice and opportunity for public comment are provided in accordance with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue the order, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the order such provisions as are necessary to ensure that the order is in conformity with this chapter.

(B) Effective date The order shall be issued and become effective not later than 180 days after publication of the proposed order.

(c) Amendments The Secretary, from time to time, may amend an order. The provisions of this chapter applicable to an order shall be applicable to any amendment to an order.

*([Pub. L. 103–190, § 4](/us/pl/103/190/s4), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2271](/us/stat/107/2271).)*
