---
title: "§ 253. Open data publication by the Board of Governors"
identifier: "USC-T12-S253"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section253"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 32](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s32), as added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LVIII, § 5862](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLVIII/s5862), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3435](/us/stat/136/3435).)"
---
# § 253. Open data publication by the Board of Governors

##### § 253. Open data publication by the Board of Governors

(1) made available as an open Government data asset (as defined in [section 3502 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3502));

(2) freely available for download;

(3) rendered in a human-readable format; and

(4) accessible via application programming interface where appropriate.

*([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 32](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s32), as added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LVIII, § 5862](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLVIII/s5862), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3435](/us/stat/136/3435).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6), [38 Stat. 251](/us/stat/38/251), known as the Federal Reserve Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under [section 226 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s226) and Tables.

The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, referred to in text, is [act May 9, 1956, ch. 240](/us/act/1956-05-09/ch240), [70 Stat. 133](/us/stat/70/133), which is classified principally to chapter 17 (§ 1841 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1841 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1841) and Tables.

The Financial Stability Act of 2010, referred to in text, is title I of [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1391](/us/stat/124/1391), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 5311 et seq.) of chapter 53 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301) and Tables.

The Home Owners’ Loan Act, referred to in text, is [act June 13, 1933, ch. 64](/us/act/1933-06-13/ch64), [48 Stat. 128](/us/stat/48/128), which is classified generally to chapter 12 (§ 1461 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1461 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1461) and Tables.

The Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010, referred to in text, is title VIII of [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1802](/us/stat/124/1802), which is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 5461 et seq.) of chapter 53 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301) and Tables.

The Enhancing Financial Institution Safety and Soundness Act of 2010, referred to in text, is title III of [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1520](/us/stat/124/1520). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rulemaking

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LVIII, § 5863](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLVIII/s5863), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3435](/us/stat/136/3435), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall issue rules to carry out the amendments made by this subtitle [subtitle F (§§ 5861–5864) of title LVIII of div. E of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), enacting this section and amending sections 1467a, 1844, 5361, and 5468 of this title], which shall take effect not later than 2 years after the date on which final rules are promulgated under section 124(b)(2) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 [[12 U.S.C. 5334(b)(2)](/us/usc/t12/s5334/b/2)], as added by [section 5811(a) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5811/a). “(b) Scaling of Regulatory Requirements; Minimizing Disruption.—In issuing the rules required under subsection (a), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System—“(1) may scale data reporting requirements in order to reduce any unjustified burden on smaller regulated entities; and “(2) shall seek to minimize disruptive changes to the persons affected by those regulations.”

#### Rule of Construction Regarding No New Disclosure Requirements

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LVIII, § 5864](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLVIII/s5864), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3436](/us/stat/136/3436), provided that: “Nothing in this subtitle [subtitle F (§§ 5861–5864) of title LVIII of div. E of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), enacting this section, amending sections 1467a, 1844, 5361, and 5468 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under this section], or the amendments made by this subtitle, shall be construed to require the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to collect or make publicly available additional information under any Act amended by this subtitle, any Act referenced in an amendment made by this subtitle, or any Act amended by an Act referenced in an amendment made by this subtitle, beyond information that was collected or made publicly available under any such provision of law, as of the day before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022].”
