---
title: "§ 1258. Supreme Court of Puerto Rico; certiorari"
identifier: "USC-T28-S1258"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section1258"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 87–189, § 1](/us/pl/87/189/s1), Aug. 30, 1961, [75 Stat. 417](/us/stat/75/417); amended [Pub. L. 100–352, § 4](/us/pl/100/352/s4), June 27, 1988, [102 Stat. 662](/us/stat/102/662).)"
---
# § 1258. Supreme Court of Puerto Rico; certiorari

##### § 1258. Supreme Court of Puerto Rico; certiorari

Final judgments or decrees rendered by the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico may be reviewed by the Supreme Court by writ of certiorari where the validity of a treaty or statute of the United States is drawn in question or where the validity of a statute of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is drawn in question on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, or where any title, right, privilege, or immunity is specially set up or claimed under the Constitution or the treaties or statutes of, or any commission held or authority exercised under, the United States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 87–189, § 1](/us/pl/87/189/s1), Aug. 30, 1961, [75 Stat. 417](/us/stat/75/417); amended [Pub. L. 100–352, § 4](/us/pl/100/352/s4), June 27, 1988, [102 Stat. 662](/us/stat/102/662).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–352](/us/pl/100/352) struck out “appeal;” before “certiorari” in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Final judgments or decrees rendered by the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico may be reviewed by the Supreme Court as follows:

“(1) By appeal, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of the United States and the decision is against its validity.

“(2) By appeal, where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of its validity.

“(3) By writ of certiorari, where the validity of a treaty or statute of the United States is drawn in question or where the validity of a statute of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is drawn in question on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, or where any title, right, privilege, or immunity is specially set up or claimed under the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of, or commission held or authority exercised under, the United States.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–352](/us/pl/100/352) effective ninety days after June 27, 1988, except that such amendment not to apply to cases pending in Supreme Court on such effective date or affect right to review or manner of reviewing judgment or decree of court which was entered before such effective date, see [section 7 of Pub. L. 100–352](/us/pl/100/352/s7), set out as a note under [section 1254 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1254).
