---
title: "§ 2204. Funding and administration"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2204"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2204"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–334, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/95/334/tIV/s404), Aug. 4, 1978, [92 Stat. 434](/us/stat/92/434); [Pub. L. 115–334, title II, § 2403(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/115/334/tII/s2403/a/2/A), (e), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4571](/us/stat/132/4571), 4572.)"
---
# § 2204. Funding and administration

##### § 2204. Funding and administration

(a) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such funds as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter, to remain available until expended.

(b) Set-aside for fencing Of the amounts made available under subsection (a) for a fiscal year, 25 percent shall be set aside until April 1 of that fiscal year for the repair or replacement of fencing.

(c) Use of Commodity Credit Corporation In implementing this chapter, the Secretary may use the facilities, services, and authorities of the Commodity Credit Corporation.

(d) Limitation The Commodity Credit Corporation shall not make any expenditures to carry out the provisions of this chapter unless funds specifically appropriated for such purpose have been transferred to it.

*([Pub. L. 95–334, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/95/334/tIV/s404), Aug. 4, 1978, [92 Stat. 434](/us/stat/92/434); [Pub. L. 115–334, title II, § 2403(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/115/334/tII/s2403/a/2/A), (e), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4571](/us/stat/132/4571), 4572.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

2018—[Pub. L. 115–334, § 2403(e)](/us/pl/115/334/s2403/e), inserted section catchline; designated first, third, and fourth sentences as subsecs. (a), (c), and (d), respectively, and inserted headings; in subsec. (a), inserted “, to remain available until expended” before period at end; in subsec. (c), substituted “In implementing this chapter” for “In implementing the provisions of this chapter”; in subsec. (d), substituted “The Commodity Credit Corporation” for “The Corporation”; added subsec. (b); and struck out former second sentence which read as follows: “Such funds shall remain available until expended.”

[Pub. L. 115–334, § 2403(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/115/334/s2403/a/2/A), substituted “Secretary” for“Secretary of Agriculture” in third sentence.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1978, see [section 406 of Pub. L. 95–334](/us/pl/95/334/s406), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2201).
