---
title: "§ 4415. Freedom of information"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4415"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4415"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–164, title V, § 506](/us/pl/98/164/tV/s506), as added [Pub. L. 99–93, title II, § 210(a)](/us/pl/99/93/tII/s210/a), Aug. 16, 1985, [99 Stat. 432](/us/stat/99/432).)"
---
# § 4415. Freedom of information

##### § 4415. Freedom of information

(a) Compliance with Freedom of Information Act Notwithstanding the fact that the Endowment is not an agency or establishment of the United States Government, the Endowment shall fully comply with all of the provisions of [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552).

(b) Publication in Federal Register For purposes of complying pursuant to subsection (a) with section 552(a)(1) of such title, the Endowment shall make available to the Director of the United States Information Agency such records and other information as the Director determines may be necessary for such purposes. The Director shall cause such records and other information to be published in the Federal Register.

(c) Review by United States Information Agency

(1) In the event that the Endowment determines not to comply with a request for records under section 552, the Endowment shall submit a report to the Director of the United States Information Agency explaining the reasons for not complying with such request.

(2) If the Director approves the determination not to comply with such request, the United States Information Agency shall assume full responsibility, including financial responsibility, for defending the Endowment in any litigation relating to such request.

(3) If the Director disapproves the determination not to comply with such request, the Endowment shall comply with such request.

*([Pub. L. 98–164, title V, § 506](/us/pl/98/164/tV/s506), as added [Pub. L. 99–93, title II, § 210(a)](/us/pl/99/93/tII/s210/a), Aug. 16, 1985, [99 Stat. 432](/us/stat/99/432).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

United States Information Agency (other than Broadcasting Board of Governors and International Broadcasting Bureau) abolished and functions transferred to Secretary of State, see sections 6531 and 6532 of this title.
