---
title: "§ 10309. Termination of assignment of observers"
identifier: "USC-T52-S10309"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section10309"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–110, title I, § 13](/us/pl/89/110/tI/s13), Aug. 6, 1965, [79 Stat. 444](/us/stat/79/444); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 91–285, § 2](/us/pl/91/285/s2), June 22, 1970, [84 Stat. 314](/us/stat/84/314); amended [Pub. L. 94–73, title II, § 206](/us/pl/94/73/tII/s206), Aug. 6, 1975, [89 Stat. 402](/us/stat/89/402); [Pub. L. 109–246, § 3(b)](/us/pl/109/246/s3/b), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 579](/us/stat/120/579); [Pub. L. 110–258, § 2](/us/pl/110/258/s2), July 1, 2008, [122 Stat. 2428](/us/"
---
# § 10309. Termination of assignment of observers

##### § 10309. Termination of assignment of observers

(a) In general The assignment of observers shall terminate in any political subdivision of any State—

(1) with respect to observers appointed pursuant to [section 10305 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s10305) or with respect to examiners certified under chapters 103 to 107 of this title before July 27, 2006, whenever the Attorney General notifies the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, or whenever the District Court for the District of Columbia determines in an action for declaratory judgment brought by any political subdivision described in subsection (b), that there is no longer reasonable cause to believe that persons will be deprived of or denied the right to vote on account of race or color, or in contravention of the guarantees set forth in [section 10303(f)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t52/s10303/f/2) in such subdivision; and

(2) with respect to observers appointed pursuant to [section 10302(a) of this title](/us/usc/t52/s10302/a), upon order of the authorizing court.

(b) Political subdivision with majority of nonwhite persons registered A political subdivision referred to in subsection (a)(1) is one with respect to which the Director of the Census has determined that more than 50 per centum of the nonwhite persons of voting age residing therein are registered to vote.

(c) Petition for termination A political subdivision may petition the Attorney General for a termination under subsection (a)(1).

*([Pub. L. 89–110, title I, § 13](/us/pl/89/110/tI/s13), Aug. 6, 1965, [79 Stat. 444](/us/stat/79/444); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 91–285, § 2](/us/pl/91/285/s2), June 22, 1970, [84 Stat. 314](/us/stat/84/314); amended [Pub. L. 94–73, title II, § 206](/us/pl/94/73/tII/s206), Aug. 6, 1975, [89 Stat. 402](/us/stat/89/402); [Pub. L. 109–246, § 3(b)](/us/pl/109/246/s3/b), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 579](/us/stat/120/579); [Pub. L. 110–258, § 2](/us/pl/110/258/s2), July 1, 2008, [122 Stat. 2428](/us/stat/122/2428).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1973k of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1973k), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers referenced in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections prior to their editorial reclassification to this title.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 110–258](/us/pl/110/258) made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to July 27, 2006.

2006—[Pub. L. 109–246](/us/pl/109/246) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to termination of listing procedures, basis for termination, and survey or census by the Director of the Census.

1975—[Pub. L. 94–73](/us/pl/94/73) substituted “on account of race or color, or in contravention of the guarantees set forth in [section 1973b(f)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t52/s1973b/f/2)” for “on account of race or color”.
