---
title: "§ 3922c. Integration of foreign economic policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3922c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3922c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–323, title IV, § 406](/us/pl/114/323/tIV/s406), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1929](/us/stat/130/1929).)"
---
# § 3922c. Integration of foreign economic policy

##### § 3922c. Integration of foreign economic policy

(a) In general The Secretary, in conjunction with the Under Secretary of Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment, shall establish—

(1) foreign economic policy priorities for each regional bureau, including for individual countries, as appropriate; and

(2) policies and guidance for integrating such foreign economic policy priorities throughout the Department.

(b) Deputy Assistant Secretary Within each regional bureau of the Department, the Secretary shall task an existing Deputy Assistant Secretary with appropriate training and background in economic and commercial affairs with the responsibility for economic matters and interests within the responsibilities of each such regional bureau, including the integration of the foreign economic policy priorities established pursuant to subsection (a).

(c) Training The Secretary shall establish curriculum at the George P. Shultz National Foreign Affairs Training Center to develop the practical foreign economic policy expertise and skill sets of Foreign Service officers, including by making available distance-learning courses in commercial, economic, and business affairs, including in the following:

(1) The global business environment.

(2) The economics of development.

(3) Development and infrastructure finance.

(4) Current trade and investment agreements negotiations.

(5) Implementing existing multilateral and World Trade Organization agreements, and United States trade and investment agreements.

(6) Best practices for customs and export procedures.

(7) Market analysis and global supply chain management.

*([Pub. L. 114–323, title IV, § 406](/us/pl/114/323/tIV/s406), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1929](/us/stat/130/1929).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017, and not as part of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary”, “Department”, and “Foreign Service” as used in this section, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 114–323](/us/pl/114/323/s2), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
