---
title: "§ 7432. Pay of Under Secretary for Health"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7432"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7432"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–445, § 3(b)](/us/pl/108/445/s3/b), Dec. 3, 2004, [118 Stat. 2640](/us/stat/118/2640).)"
---
# § 7432. Pay of Under Secretary for Health

##### § 7432. Pay of Under Secretary for Health

(a) Base Pay.— The base pay of the Under Secretary for Health shall be the annual rate of basic pay for positions at Level III of the Executive Schedule under [section 5314 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314).

(b) Market Pay.—

(1) In the case of an Under Secretary for Health who is also a physician or dentist, in addition to the base pay specified in subsection (a) the Under Secretary for Health may also be paid the market pay element of pay of physicians and dentists under [section 7431(c) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7431/c).

(2) The amount of market pay of the Under Secretary for Health under this subsection shall be established by the Secretary.

(3) In establishing the amount of market pay of the Under Secretary for Health under this subsection, the Secretary shall utilize an appropriate health care labor market selected by the Secretary for purposes of this subsection.

(c) Treatment of Pay.— Pay under this section shall be considered pay for all purposes, including retirement benefits under chapters 83 and 84 of title 5 and other benefits.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–445, § 3(b)](/us/pl/108/445/s3/b), Dec. 3, 2004, [118 Stat. 2640](/us/stat/118/2640).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7432, added [Pub. L. 102–40, title I, § 102](/us/pl/102/40/tI/s102), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 189](/us/stat/105/189); amended [Pub. L. 102–405, title III, § 302(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/tIII/s302/c/1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1984](/us/stat/106/1984); [Pub. L. 104–262, title III, § 346](/us/pl/104/262/tIII/s346), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3208](/us/stat/110/3208), related to written agreements for special pay, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 108–445](/us/pl/108/445).
