---
title: "§ 4603. Honey research, promotion, and consumer information order"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–590, § 4](/us/pl/98/590/s4), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3116](/us/stat/98/3116); [Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, § 605(c)](/us/pl/105/185/tVI/s605/c), June 23, 1998, [112 Stat. 589](/us/stat/112/589).)"
---
# § 4603. Honey research, promotion, and consumer information order

##### § 4603. Honey research, promotion, and consumer information order

To effectuate the declared policy of this chapter, the Secretary shall, subject to the provisions of this chapter, issue and, from time to time, amend orders and regulations applicable to persons engaged in the production, sale, or handling of honey and honey products in the United States and the importation of honey and honey products into the United States.

*([Pub. L. 98–590, § 4](/us/pl/98/590/s4), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3116](/us/stat/98/3116); [Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, § 605(c)](/us/pl/105/185/tVI/s605/c), June 23, 1998, [112 Stat. 589](/us/stat/112/589).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1998—[Pub. L. 105–185](/us/pl/105/185) inserted “and regulations” after “orders”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Conforming Amendment to Order

[Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1987](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1987), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3908](/us/stat/104/3908), provided that: “Notwithstanding any provision of the Honey Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act ([7 U.S.C. 4601](/us/usc/t7/s4601) et seq.), the Secretary of Agriculture, after notice and opportunity for public comment, shall issue an amendment to the order in effect under such Act on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 28, 1990] to conform such order to the amendments made by this subtitle [subtitle F (§§ 1981–1989) of title XIX of [Pub. L. 101–624](/us/pl/101/624), enacting [section 4610a of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4610a) and amending sections 1787, 4602, 4606, 4608, and 4612 of this title], which shall become effective on the date of the publication of such amendment to the order in the Federal Register without a referendum thereon (except for the referendum specifically provided for under section 1985 [amending [section 4612 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4612)]). The Secretary shall issue such amendment to the order in final form not later than 150 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.”
