---
title: "§ 3735. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities in People’s Republic of China"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3735"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3735"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XIII, § 1335](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tXIII/s1335), as added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XIII, § 1303(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXIII/s1303/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2567](/us/stat/130/2567); amended [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XIII, § 1302(b)(3)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tXIII/s1302/b/3), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/131/1705).)"
---
# § 3735. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities in People’s Republic of China

##### § 3735. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities in People’s Republic of China

(a) Semiannual installments In carrying out activities under the Program in the People’s Republic of China, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for such activities are obligated in semiannual installments.

(b) Required reports

(1) Additional information With respect to carrying out activities under the Program in the People’s Republic of China, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees the reports required by [section 3711(g) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3711/g) on a semiannual basis by not later than 15 days before any obligation of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for such activities during the covered semiannual period. In addition to the matters required by such section, each such report shall include, in coordination with the Secretary of State—

(A) whether China has taken material steps to—

(i) disrupt the proliferation activities of Li Fangwei (also known as Karl Lee, or any other alias known by the United States); and

(ii) arrest Li Fangwei pursuant the indictment charged in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on April 29, 2014;

(B) whether China has proliferated to any non-nuclear weapons state, or any nuclear weapons state in violation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, any item that contributes to a ballistic missile or nuclear weapons delivery system; and

(C) the number, type, and summary of any demarches between the United States and China with respect to the matters described in subparagraphs (A) and (B).

(2) Additional submissions At the same time as the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees the information described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1) as part of the reports required by [section 3711(g) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3711/g), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate such information.

(3) Coverage With respect to the information described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1)—

(A) the first report described in such paragraph that is submitted after December 23, 2016, shall cover the preceding 12-month period before the date of such submission; and

(B) each subsequent report shall cover the semiannual period preceding the date of such submission.

(4) Form The information described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

*([Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XIII, § 1335](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tXIII/s1335), as added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XIII, § 1303(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXIII/s1303/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2567](/us/stat/130/2567); amended [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XIII, § 1302(b)(3)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tXIII/s1302/b/3), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/131/1705).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) struck out “or expended” after “obligated”.
