---
title: "§ 2314b. Advanced modeling technologies"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2314b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2314b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1034](/us/pl/113/121/tI/s1034), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1234](/us/stat/128/1234).)"
---
# § 2314b. Advanced modeling technologies

##### § 2314b. Advanced modeling technologies

(a) In general To the greatest extent practicable, the Secretary shall encourage and incorporate advanced modeling technologies, including 3-dimensional digital modeling, that can expedite project delivery or improve the evaluation of water resources development projects that receive Federal funding by—

(1) accelerating and improving the environmental review process;

(2) increasing effective public participation;

(3) enhancing the detail and accuracy of project designs;

(4) increasing safety;

(5) accelerating construction and reducing construction costs; or

(6) otherwise achieving the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (5).

(b) Activities In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary, to the greatest extent practicable, shall—

(1) compile information related to advanced modeling technologies, including industry best practices with respect to the use of the technologies;

(2) disseminate to non-Federal interests the information described in paragraph (1); and

(3) promote the use of advanced modeling technologies.

*([Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1034](/us/pl/113/121/tI/s1034), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1234](/us/stat/128/1234).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
