---
title: "§ 10335. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10335"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10335"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1406](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1406), as added [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(a)(2)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/a/2), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4812](/us/stat/104/4812); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40156(c)(6)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40156/c/6), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1924](/us/stat/108/1924).)"
---
# § 10335. Reports

##### § 10335. Reports

(a) Each State or unit of local government that receives a grant under this subchapter shall submit to the Director, for each year in which any part of such grant is expended by a State or unit of local government, a report which contains—

Such report shall be submitted in such form and by such time as the Director may require by rule.

(1) a summary of the activities carried out with such grant and an assessment of the impact of such activities on meeting the needs identified in the application submitted under [section 10333 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10333); and

(2) such other information as the Director may require by rule.

(b) Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year for which grants are made under this subchapter, the Director shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate a report that includes with respect to each State—

(1) the aggregate amount of grants made under this chapter to the State and units of local government in the State for such fiscal year; and

(2) a summary of the information provided in compliance with subsection (a)(1) of this section.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1406](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1406), as added [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(a)(2)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/a/2), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4812](/us/stat/104/4812); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40156(c)(6)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40156/c/6), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1924](/us/stat/108/1924).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796aa–5 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796aa–5), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 40156(c)(6)(A)(i)](/us/pl/103/322/s40156/c/6/A/i), (ii), substituted “State or unit of local government that” for “State which” and “subchapter” for “chapter” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 40156(c)(6)(A)(iii)](/us/pl/103/322/s40156/c/6/A/iii), struck out “State” before “application submitted”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 40156(c)(6)(B)](/us/pl/103/322/s40156/c/6/B), substituted “the State and units of local government in the State” for “such State”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which item 13 on page 121 identifies a reporting provision which, as subsequently amended, is contained in subsec. (b) of this section), see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance.

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
