---
title: "§ 9304. Partnerships in sustainable chemistry"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title II, § 264](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tII/s264), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3501](/us/stat/134/3501).)"
---
# § 9304. Partnerships in sustainable chemistry

##### § 9304. Partnerships in sustainable chemistry

(a) In general The agencies participating in the Entity may facilitate and support, through financial, technical, or other assistance, the creation of partnerships between institutions of higher education, nongovernmental organizations, consortia, or companies across the value chain in the chemical industry, including small- and medium-sized enterprises, to—

(1) create collaborative sustainable chemistry research, development, demonstration, technology transfer, and commercialization programs; and

(2) train students and retrain professional scientists, engineers, and others involved in materials specification on the use of sustainable chemistry concepts and strategies by methods, including—

(A) developing or recognizing curricular materials and courses for undergraduate and graduate levels and for the professional development of scientists, engineers, and others involved in materials specification; and

(B) publicizing the availability of professional development courses in sustainable chemistry and recruiting professionals to pursue such courses.

(b) Private sector participation To be eligible for support under this section, a partnership in sustainable chemistry shall include at least one private sector organization.

(c) Selection of partnerships In selecting partnerships for support under this section, the agencies participating in the Entity shall also consider the extent to which the applicants are willing and able to demonstrate evidence of support for, and commitment to, the goals outlined in the strategic plan and report described in [section 9302 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s9302).

(d) Prohibited use of funds Financial support provided under this section may not be used—

(1) to support or expand a regulatory chemical management program at an implementing agency under a State law;

(2) to construct or renovate a building or structure; or

(3) to promote the sale of a specific product, process, or technology, or to disparage a specific product, process, or technology.

*([Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title II, § 264](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tII/s264), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3501](/us/stat/134/3501).)*
