---
title: "§ 1437z–2. Public housing mortgages and security interests"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1437z–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1437z–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896](/us/act/1937-09-01/ch896), title I, § 30, as added [Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 516](/us/pl/105/276/tV/s516), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2550](/us/stat/112/2550).)"
---
# § 1437z–2. Public housing mortgages and security interests

##### § 1437z–2. Public housing mortgages and security interests

(a) General authorization The Secretary may, upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, authorize a public housing agency to mortgage or otherwise grant a security interest in any public housing project or other property of the public housing agency.

(b) Terms and conditions In making any authorization under subsection (a), the Secretary may consider—

(1) the ability of the public housing agency to use the proceeds of the mortgage or security interest for low-income housing uses;

(2) the ability of the public housing agency to make payments on the mortgage or security interest; and

(3) such other criteria as the Secretary may specify.

(c) No Federal liability No action taken under this section shall result in any liability to the Federal Government.

*([Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896](/us/act/1937-09-01/ch896), title I, § 30, as added [Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 516](/us/pl/105/276/tV/s516), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2550](/us/stat/112/2550).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective and applicable beginning upon Oct. 1, 1999, except as otherwise provided, with provision that Secretary may implement section before such date except to extent otherwise provided, see [section 503 of Pub. L. 105–276](/us/pl/105/276/s503), set out as an Effective Date of 1998 Amendment note under [section 1437 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1437).
