---
title: "§ 1317. Foreign Relations"
identifier: "USC-T44-S1317"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section1317"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1268](/us/stat/82/1268).)"
---
# § 1317. Foreign Relations

##### § 1317. Foreign Relations

In addition to the usual number of Foreign Relations, three thousand copies of each shall be printed: one thousand for the Senate and two thousand for the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1268](/us/stat/82/1268).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 250 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 73](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s73), [28 Stat. 613](/us/stat/28/613)).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Publication of “Foreign Relations of the United States” at Continuing High Standard of Documentation

[Pub. L. 95–426, title I, § 120](/us/pl/95/426/tI/s120), Oct. 7, 1978, [92 Stat. 970](/us/stat/92/970), provided that: “(a) The Congress finds that the Department of State publication ‘Foreign Relations of the United States’ plays an important role in making the documentary record of United States foreign relations available to the Congress and the American public. “(b) The Secretary of State shall therefore insure that publication of the ‘Foreign Relations of the United States’ volumes is continued in such a manner as will maintain the high standard of comprehensive documentation already established by past volumes.”

#### Written Requests for Documents

[Pub. L. 94–59, title VIII](/us/pl/94/59/tVIII), July 25, 1975, [89 Stat. 296](/us/stat/89/296), provided that: “Hereafter, notwithstanding any other provisions of law, appropriations for the automatic distribution to Senators and Representatives (including Delegates to Congress and the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico) of copies of the Foreign Relations of the United States, the United States Treaties and Other International Agreements, the District of Columbia Code and Supplements, and more than one bound set of the United States Code and Supplements shall not be available with respect to any Senator or Representative unless such Senator or Representative specifically, in writing, requests that he receive copies of such documents.”
