---
title: "§ 6729. United States assistance in inspections at private facilities"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6729"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6729"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title III, § 310](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tIII/s310), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–880](/us/stat/112/2681-880).)"
---
# § 6729. United States assistance in inspections at private facilities

##### § 6729. United States assistance in inspections at private facilities

(a) Assistance in preparation for inspections At the request of an owner of a facility not owned or operated by the United States Government, or contracted for use by or for the United States Government, the Secretary of Defense may assist the facility to prepare the facility for possible inspections pursuant to the Convention.

(b) Reimbursement requirement

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), the owner of a facility provided assistance under subsection (a) shall reimburse the Secretary for the costs incurred by the Secretary in providing the assistance.

(2) Exception In the case of assistance provided under subsection (a) to a facility owned by a person described in subsection (c), the United States National Authority shall reimburse the Secretary for the costs incurred by the Secretary in providing the assistance.

(c) Owners covered by United States National Authority reimbursements Subsection (b)(2) applies in the case of assistance provided to the following:

(1) Small business concerns A small business concern as defined in [section 632 of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s632).

(2) Domestic producers of Schedule 3 or unscheduled discrete organic chemicals Any person located in the United States that—

(A) does not possess, produce, process, consume, import, or export any Schedule 1 or Schedule 2 chemical; and

(B) in the calendar year preceding the year in which the assistance is to be provided, produced—

(i) more than 30 metric tons of Schedule 3 or unscheduled discrete organic chemicals that contain phosphorous, sulfur, or fluorine; or

(ii) more than 200 metric tons of unscheduled discrete organic chemicals.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title III, § 310](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tIII/s310), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–880](/us/stat/112/2681-880).)*
