---
title: "§ 10661. Authority to make grants to address public safety and methamphetamine manufacturing, sale, and use in hot spots"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10661"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10661"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2996](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2996), as added [Pub. L. 109–177, title VII, § 754](/us/pl/109/177/tVII/s754), Mar. 9, 2006, [120 Stat. 274](/us/stat/120/274); amended [Pub. L. 110–161, div. B, title II, § 220(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dB/tII/s220/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1916](/us/stat/121/1916).)"
---
# § 10661. Authority to make grants to address public safety and methamphetamine manufacturing, sale, and use in hot spots

##### § 10661. Authority to make grants to address public safety and methamphetamine manufacturing, sale, and use in hot spots

(a) 11 So in original. No subsec. (b) has been enacted. Purpose and program authority

(1) Purpose It is the purpose of this subchapter to assist States, territories, and Indian tribes (as defined in [section 10554 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10554))—

(A) to carry out programs to address the manufacture, sale, and use of methamphetamine drugs; and

(B) to improve the ability of State, territorial, Tribal, and local government institutions of 22 So in original. The word “of” probably should not appear. to carry out such programs.

(2) Grant authorization The Attorney General, through the Bureau of Justice Assistance in the Office of Justice Programs may make grants to States, territories, and Indian tribes to address the manufacture, sale, and use of methamphetamine to enhance public safety.

(3) Grant projects to address methamphetamine manufacture sale and use Grants made under subsection (a) may be used for programs, projects, and other activities to—

(A) investigate, arrest and prosecute individuals violating laws related to the use, manufacture, or sale of methamphetamine;

(B) reimburse the Drug Enforcement Administration for expenses related to the clean up of methamphetamine clandestine labs;

(C) support State, Tribal, and local health department and environmental agency services deployed to address methamphetamine; and

(D) procure equipment, technology, or support systems, or pay for resources, if the applicant for such a grant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that expenditures for such purposes would result in the reduction in the use, sale, and manufacture of methamphetamine.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2996](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2996), as added [Pub. L. 109–177, title VII, § 754](/us/pl/109/177/tVII/s754), Mar. 9, 2006, [120 Stat. 274](/us/stat/120/274); amended [Pub. L. 110–161, div. B, title II, § 220(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dB/tII/s220/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1916](/us/stat/121/1916).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797cc of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797cc), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2007—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 110–161, § 220(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/161/s220/a/1/A), inserted “, territories, and Indian tribes (as defined in [section 3797d of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3797d))” after “to assist States” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 110–161, § 220(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/110/161/s220/a/1/B), substituted “, territorial, Tribal, and local” for “and local”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 110–161, § 220(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/161/s220/a/2), inserted “, territories, and Indian tribes” after “make grants to States”.

Subsec. (a)(3)(C). [Pub. L. 110–161, § 220(a)(3)](/us/pl/110/161/s220/a/3), inserted “, Tribal,” after “support State”.
