---
title: "§ 150511. Service of process"
identifier: "USC-T36-S150511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section150511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1391](/us/stat/112/1391); [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(8)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/8), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/120/1212).)"
---
# § 150511. Service of process

##### § 150511. Service of process

(a) District of Columbia.— The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the address of the agent, is notice to or service on the corporation.

(b) States.— As a condition to the exercise in any State of any power or privilege granted by this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or other designated official of that State, the name and address of an agent in that State on whom legal process or demands against the corporation may be served.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1391](/us/stat/112/1391); [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(8)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/8), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/120/1212).)*

In subsection (a), the word “have” is substituted for “maintain” for consistency in the revised title. The words “at all times” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “to receive” are substituted for “authorized to accept”, and the words “is notice to or service on” are substituted for “shall be deemed sufficient notice or service upon”, for consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (b), the words “precedent” and “or conferred” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “file, with the secretary of state or other designated official” are substituted for “serve notice upon the secretary of state, or similar officer” for consistency in the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 150511(a) | 36:404(b). | Apr. 3, 1952, ch. 131, §§ 4(b), 19, 66 Stat. 39, 41. |
| 150511(b) | 36:419. |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–284](/us/pl/109/284) substituted “with the secretary” for “with secretary”.
