---
title: "§ 2005. Vacant rooms; assignment to Representatives"
identifier: "USC-T2-S2005"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section2005"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "(May 28, 1908, No. 30, [35 Stat. 578](/us/stat/35/578); [Mar. 3, 1921, ch. 124](/us/act/1921-03-03/ch124), [41 Stat. 1291](/us/stat/41/1291).)"
---
# § 2005. Vacant rooms; assignment to Representatives

##### § 2005. Vacant rooms; assignment to Representatives

Any Member or Member-elect of the House of Representatives may file with the Architect of the Capitol a request in writing that any individual office room be assigned to him whenever it shall become vacant. If only one such request has been made for any room which shall at any time have become vacant, the room shall be assigned as requested. If two or more requests are made for the same vacant room, preference shall be given to the Representative making the request who has been longest in continuous service as a Member and Member-elect of the House of Representatives. If two or more Representatives with equal length of continuous service, or two or more Representatives-elect make request for the same room, preference shall be given to the one first preferring his request.

*(May 28, 1908, No. 30, [35 Stat. 578](/us/stat/35/578); [Mar. 3, 1921, ch. 124](/us/act/1921-03-03/ch124), [41 Stat. 1291](/us/stat/41/1291).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 178 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Change of name of Architect of the Capitol, functions abolished, transferred, etc., by prior acts, see Prior Provisions and Change of Name notes set out under former [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1801).
