---
title: "§ 285l–5. Application"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285l–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285l–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–545, § 5](/us/pl/106/545/s5), Dec. 19, 2000, [114 Stat. 2724](/us/stat/114/2724).)"
---
# § 285l–5. Application

##### § 285l–5. Application

(a) Application Sections 285*l*–2 to 285*l*–5 of this title shall not apply to research, including research performed using biotechnology techniques, or research related to the causes, diagnosis, treatment, control, or prevention of physical or mental diseases or impairments of humans or animals.

(b) Use of test methods Nothing in sections 285*l*–2 to 285*l*–5 of this title shall prevent a Federal agency from retaining final authority for incorporating the test methods recommended by the ICCVAM in the manner determined to be appropriate by such Federal agency or regulatory body.

(c) Limitation Nothing in sections 285*l*–2 to 285*l*–5 of this title shall be construed to require a manufacturer that is currently not required to perform animal testing to perform such tests. Nothing in sections 285*l*–2 to 285*l*–5 of this title shall be construed to require a manufacturer to perform redundant endpoint specific testing.

(d) Submission of tests and data Nothing in sections 285*l*–2 to 285*l*–5 of this title precludes a party from submitting a test method or scientific data directly to a Federal agency for use in a regulatory program.

*([Pub. L. 106–545, § 5](/us/pl/106/545/s5), Dec. 19, 2000, [114 Stat. 2724](/us/stat/114/2724).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the ICCVAM Authorization Act of 2000, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
