---
title: "§ 12707. Citizen participation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title I, § 107](/us/pl/101/625/tI/s107), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4091](/us/stat/104/4091).)"
---
# § 12707. Citizen participation

##### § 12707. Citizen participation

(a) In general Before submitting a housing strategy under this section,11 So in original. The words “this section” probably should be “[section 12705 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12705)”. a jurisdiction shall—

(1) make available to its citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties information concerning the amount of assistance the jurisdiction expects to receive and the range of investment or other uses of such assistance that the jurisdiction may undertake;

(2) publish a proposed housing strategy in a manner that, in the determination of the Secretary, affords affected citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties a reasonable opportunity to examine its content and to submit comments on the proposed housing strategy;

(3) hold one or more public hearings to obtain the views of citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties on the housing needs of the jurisdiction; and

(4) provide citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties with reasonable access to records regarding any uses of any assistance the jurisdiction may have received during the preceding 5 years.

(b) Notice and comment Before submitting any performance report or substantial amendment to a housing strategy under this section,^1 a participating jurisdiction shall provide citizens with reasonable notice of, and opportunity to comment on, such performance report or substantial amendment prior to its submission.

(c) Consideration of comments A participating jurisdiction shall consider any comments or views of citizens in preparing a final housing strategy, amendment to a housing strategy or performance report for submission. A summary of such comments or views shall be attached when a housing strategy, amendment to a housing strategy or performance report is submitted. The submitted housing strategy, amendment, or report shall be made available to the public.

(d) Regulations The Secretary shall by regulation establish procedures appropriate and practicable for providing a fair hearing and timely resolution of citizen complaints related to housing strategies or performance reports.

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title I, § 107](/us/pl/101/625/tI/s107), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4091](/us/stat/104/4091).)*
