---
title: "§ 8690. Limitation on length of overseas forward deployment of naval vessels"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8690"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8690"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added § 7320 and renumbered § 8690, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title III, § 323(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tIII/s323/a/1), title VIII, § 807(d)(2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1719](/us/stat/132/1719), 1836.)"
---
# § 8690. Limitation on length of overseas forward deployment of naval vessels

##### § 8690. Limitation on length of overseas forward deployment of naval vessels

(a) Limitation.— The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that no naval vessel specified in subsection (b) that is listed in the Naval Vessel Register is forward deployed overseas for a period in excess of ten years. At the end of a period of overseas forward deployment, the vessel shall be assigned a homeport in the United States.

(b) Vessels Specified.— A naval vessel specified in this subsection is any of the following:

(1) Aircraft carrier.

(2) Amphibious ship.

(3) Cruiser.

(4) Destroyer.

(5) Frigate.

(6) Littoral Combat Ship.

(c) Waiver.— The Secretary of the Navy may waive the limitation under subsection (a) with respect to a naval vessel if the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees notice in writing of—

(1) the waiver of such limitation with respect to the vessel;

(2) the date on which the period of overseas forward deployment of the vessel is expected to end; and

(3) the factors used by the Secretary to determine that a longer period of deployment would promote the national defense or be in the public interest.

*(Added § 7320 and renumbered § 8690, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title III, § 323(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tIII/s323/a/1), title VIII, § 807(d)(2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1719](/us/stat/132/1719), 1836.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8690, [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 538](/us/stat/70A/538), exempted enlisted members of Air Force, while on active duty, from arrest for any debt, unless it was contracted before enlistment and amounted to at least $20 when first contracted, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 90–235, § 7(b)(1)](/us/pl/90/235/s7/b/1), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 763](/us/stat/81/763).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232, § 807(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/s807/d/2), renumbered [section 7320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7320) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [section 807(d)(2) of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s807/d/2) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Treatment of Currently Deployed Vessels; Extension of Limitation for U.S.S. Shiloh

[Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title III, § 323(b)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tIII/s323/b), (c), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1720](/us/stat/132/1720), as amended by [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title III, § 353(2)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tIII/s353/2), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/133/1321); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title III, § 344](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIII/s344), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3538](/us/stat/134/3538), provided that: “(b) Treatment of Currently Deployed Vessels.—In the case of any aircraft carrier, amphibious ship, cruiser, destroyer, frigate, or littoral combat ship that has been forward deployed overseas for a period in excess of ten years as of the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 13, 2018], the Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that such vessel is assigned a homeport in the United States by not later than three years after the date of the enactment of this Act. “(c) Extension of Limitation on Length of Overseas Forward Deployment for U.S.S. Shiloh (CG–67).—Notwithstanding subsection (b), the Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that the U.S.S. Shiloh (CG–67) is assigned a homeport in the United States by not later than September 30, 2023.”
