---
title: "§ 40506. Restrictions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S40506"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section40506"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1334](/us/stat/112/1334).)"
---
# § 40506. Restrictions

##### § 40506. Restrictions

(a) Stock and Dividends.— The corporation may not issue stock or declare or pay a dividend.

(b) Political Activities.— The corporation or a director or officer as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.

(c) Distribution of Income or Assets.— The income or assets of the corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a director, officer, or member as such during the life of the corporation or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the payment of—

(1) expenses of officers of the corporation in amounts approved by the board of directors; or

(2) appropriate aid to individuals to whom the Medal of Honor has been awarded, their widows, or their children, to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

(d) Loans.— The corporation may not make a loan to a director, officer, or employee. Directors and officers who vote for or assent to making a loan to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1334](/us/stat/112/1334).)*

In subsection (a), the words “any shares of” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), the words “support” and “any” are added for consistency in the revised title. The words “directly or indirectly, local or national” are omitted as unnecessary and for consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (c), before clause (1), the words “inure to the benefit of” are substituted for “inure to” for consistency in the revised title. In clause (1), the words “bona fide” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40506(a) | 36:802. | Aug. 14, 1958, Pub. L. 85–642, §§ 9(a) (1st sentence words before last comma, last sentence), (b), 10, 12, 72 Stat. 599, 600. |
| 40506(b) | 36:800. |  |
| 40506(c) | 36:799(a) (1st sentence words before last comma, last sentence). |  |
| 40506(d) | 36:799(b). |  |
