---
title: "§ 954. Transshipment and in-transit shipment of controlled substances"
identifier: "USC-T21-S954"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section954"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–513, title III, § 1004](/us/pl/91/513/tIII/s1004), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1287](/us/stat/84/1287).)"
---
# § 954. Transshipment and in-transit shipment of controlled substances

##### § 954. Transshipment and in-transit shipment of controlled substances

(1) A controlled substance in schedule I may—

if and only if it is so imported, transferred, or transshipped (i) for scientific, medical, or other legitimate purposes in the country of destination, and (ii) with the prior written approval of the Attorney General (which shall be granted or denied within 21 days of the request).

(A) be imported into the United States for transshipment to another country, or

(B) be transferred or transshipped from one vessel, vehicle, or aircraft to another vessel, vehicle, or aircraft within the United States for immediate exportation,

(2) A controlled substance in schedule II, III, or IV may be so imported, transferred, or transshipped if and only if advance notice is given to the Attorney General in accordance with regulations of the Attorney General.

*([Pub. L. 91–513, title III, § 1004](/us/pl/91/513/tIII/s1004), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1287](/us/stat/84/1287).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Schedules I, II, III, and IV, referred to in text, are set out in [section 812(c) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s812/c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of seventh calendar month that begins after Oct. 26, 1970, see 1105(a) of [Pub. L. 91–513](/us/pl/91/513), set out as a under [section 951 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s951).
