---
title: "§ 7472. Supervision and staffing of Centers"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7472"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7472"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 401(b)(5)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s401/b/5), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 237](/us/stat/105/237); amended [Pub. L. 102–405, title III, § 302(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/tIII/s302/c/1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1984](/us/stat/106/1984).)"
---
# § 7472. Supervision and staffing of Centers

##### § 7472. Supervision and staffing of Centers

(a) Centers shall be operated under the supervision of the Under Secretary for Health and shall be staffed with personnel qualified to provide the highest quality instruction and training in various medical and health care disciplines.

(b) As a means of providing appropriate recognition to persons in the career service of the Administration who possess outstanding qualifications in a particular medical or health care discipline, the Under Secretary for Health shall from time to time and for such period as the Under Secretary for Health considers appropriate assign such persons to serve as visiting instructors at Centers.

(c) Whenever the Under Secretary for Health considers it necessary for the effective conduct of the program provided for under this subchapter, the Under Secretary for Health may contract for the services of highly qualified medical and health personnel from outside the Department to serve as instructors at such Centers.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 401(b)(5)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s401/b/5), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 237](/us/stat/105/237); amended [Pub. L. 102–405, title III, § 302(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/tIII/s302/c/1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1984](/us/stat/106/1984).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 4122 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4122) prior to the repeal of that section as part of the complete revision of chapter 73 of this title by [Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40).

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–405](/us/pl/102/405) substituted “Under Secretary for Health” for “Chief Medical Director” wherever appearing.
