---
title: "§ 1745. Disclaimer of interest in lands"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1745"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1745"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–579, title III, § 315](/us/pl/94/579/tIII/s315), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2770](/us/stat/90/2770).)"
---
# § 1745. Disclaimer of interest in lands

##### § 1745. Disclaimer of interest in lands

(a) Issuance of recordable document; criteria After consulting with any affected Federal agency, the Secretary is authorized to issue a document of disclaimer of interest or interests in any lands in any form suitable for recordation, where the disclaimer will help remove a cloud on the title of such lands and where he determines (1) a record interest of the United States in lands has terminated by operation of law or is otherwise invalid; or (2) the lands lying between the meander line shown on a plat of survey approved by the Bureau or its predecessors and the actual shoreline of a body of water are not lands of the United States; or (3) accreted, relicted, or avulsed lands are not lands of the United States.

(b) Procedures applicable No document or disclaimer shall be issued pursuant to this section unless the applicant therefor has filed with the Secretary an application in writing and notice of such application setting forth the grounds supporting such application has been published in the Federal Register at least ninety days preceding the issuance of such disclaimer and until the applicant therefor has paid to the Secretary the administrative costs of issuing the disclaimer as determined by the Secretary. All receipts shall be deposited to the then-current appropriation from which expended.

(c) Construction as quit-claim deed from United States Issuance of a document of disclaimer by the Secretary pursuant to the provisions of this section and regulations promulgated hereunder shall have the same effect as a quit-claim deed from the United States.

*([Pub. L. 94–579, title III, § 315](/us/pl/94/579/tIII/s315), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2770](/us/stat/90/2770).)*
