---
title: "§ 4206. Fees for services to American vessels or seamen prohibited"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1884, ch. 121, § 12](/us/act/1884-06-26/ch121/s12), [23 Stat. 56](/us/stat/23/56).)"
---
# § 4206. Fees for services to American vessels or seamen prohibited

##### § 4206. Fees for services to American vessels or seamen prohibited

No fees named in the tariff of consular fees prescribed by order of the President shall be charged or collected by consular officers for the official services to American vessels and seamen. Consular officers shall furnish the master of every such vessel with an itemized statement of such services performed on account of said vessel, with the fee so prescribed for each service, and make a detailed report to the Secretary of the Treasury of such services and fees, under such regulations as the Secretary of State may prescribe.

*([June 26, 1884, ch. 121, § 12](/us/act/1884-06-26/ch121/s12), [23 Stat. 56](/us/stat/23/56).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.

Provisions of section 12 of act June 26, 1884 (this section), permitting the Secretary of the Treasury to allow consular officers who are paid in whole or in part by fees such compensation for their services as they would have received but for the prohibition in this section were superseded by [section 4223 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4223) and were omitted, as was a provision of said section appropriating a sum sufficient for the payment of the compensation herein mentioned.

Section was formerly classified to [section 1186 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1186), and prior thereto to [section 89 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s89).
