---
title: "§ 3352c. Goals for promptness of determinations regarding security clearances"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3352c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3352c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVI, § 6604](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVI/s6604), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2213](/us/stat/133/2213); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVIII, § 6824(b)(3)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVIII/s6824/b/3), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3615](/us/stat/136/3615).)"
---
# § 3352c. Goals for promptness of determinations regarding security clearances

##### § 3352c. Goals for promptness of determinations regarding security clearances

(a) In general The Council shall reform the security clearance process with the objective that, by December 31, 2021, 90 percent of all determinations, other than determinations regarding populations identified under [section 3352b(b)(3)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3352b/b/3/C), regarding—

(1) security clearances—

(A) at the secret level are issued in 30 days or fewer; and

(B) at the top secret level are issued in 90 days or fewer; and

(2) reciprocity of security clearances at the same level are recognized in 2 weeks or fewer.

(b) Certain reinvestigations The Council shall reform the security clearance process with the goal that by December 31, 2021, reinvestigation on a set periodicity is not required for more than 10 percent of the population that holds a security clearance.

(c) Equivalent metrics

(1) In general If the Council develops a set of performance metrics that it certifies to the appropriate congressional committees should achieve substantially equivalent outcomes as those outlined in subsections (a) and (b), the Council may use those metrics for purposes of compliance within this provision.

(2) Notice If the Council uses the authority provided by paragraph (1) to use metrics as described in such paragraph, the Council shall, not later than 30 days after communicating such metrics to departments and agencies, notify the appropriate congressional committees that it is using such authority.

(d) Plan Not later than 180 days after December 20, 2019, the Council shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and make available to appropriate industry partners a plan to carry out this section. Such plan shall include recommended interim milestones for the goals set forth in subsections (a) and (b) for 2019, 2020, and 2021.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVI, § 6604](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVI/s6604), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2213](/us/stat/133/2213); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVIII, § 6824(b)(3)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVIII/s6824/b/3), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3615](/us/stat/136/3615).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsecs. (c)(1), (d). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) substituted “subsections (a) and (b)” for “subsections (b) and (c)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Council”, “reciprocity”, “appropriate congressional committees”, and “appropriate industry partners”, referred to in text, see [section 3352 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3352).
