---
title: "§ 6332. Laboratory-directed research and development"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6332"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6332"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1448](/us/stat/139/1448).)"
---
# § 6332. Laboratory-directed research and development

##### § 6332. Laboratory-directed research and development

Of the funds made available by the Department of Energy for activities at government-owned, contractor-operated laboratories funded in this Act 11 See References in Text note below. or subsequent Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts, the Secretary may authorize a specific amount, not to exceed 8 percent of such funds, to be used by such laboratories for laboratory directed research and development: *Provided*, That the Secretary may also authorize a specific amount not to exceed 4 percent of such funds, to be used by the plant manager of a covered nuclear weapons production plant or the manager of the Nevada Site Office for plant or site directed research and development: *Provided further*, That notwithstanding Department of Energy order 413.2A, dated January 8, 2001, beginning in fiscal year 2006 and thereafter, all DOE laboratories may be eligible for laboratory directed research and development funding.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1448](/us/stat/139/1448).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, means div. C of [Pub. L. 111–8](/us/pl/111/8), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 601](/us/stat/123/601), known as the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2009. Prior to repeal and restatement as this section, this section was [section 308 of div. C of Pub. L. 111–8](/us/pl/111/8/dC/s308). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6332 was renumbered [section 8332 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8332).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2791a of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2791a), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(6)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/6).
