---
title: "§ 8443. Monitoring for improved recreation decision making"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8443"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8443"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 133](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s133), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2862](/us/stat/138/2862).)"
---
# § 8443. Monitoring for improved recreation decision making

##### § 8443. Monitoring for improved recreation decision making

(a) In general The Secretaries shall seek to capture comprehensive recreation use data to better understand and inform decision making by the Secretaries.

(b) Pilot protocols Not later than 1 year after January 4, 2025, and after public notice and comment, the Secretaries shall establish pilot protocols at not fewer than 10 land management units under the jurisdiction of each of the Secretaries to model recreation use patterns (including low-use recreation activities and dispersed recreation activities) that may not be effectively measured by existing general and opportunistic survey and monitoring protocols.

(c) Secretaries defined In this section, the term “Secretaries” means—

(1) the Secretary, with respect to lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary;

(2) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, with respect to lands under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service;

(3) the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, with respect to Federal waters under the jurisdiction of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and

(4) the Assistant Secretary of Army for Civil Works, with respect to lakes and reservoirs under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 133](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s133), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2862](/us/stat/138/2862).)*
