---
title: "§ 4083b. Overseas operations leave"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4083b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4083b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 903b](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s903b), as added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXII, § 7215(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXII/s7215/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/138/2537).)"
---
# § 4083b. Overseas operations leave

##### § 4083b. Overseas operations leave

(a) Definitions In this section—

(1) the term “agency” means an Executive agency (as that term is defined in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105)), but does not include the Government Accountability Office.

(2) the term “employee” means an officer or an individual who is—

(A) appointed in the civil service, the Foreign Service, or any appointment authority other than the uniformed services (as that term is defined in [section 101 of title 37](/us/usc/t37/s101)), by one of the following acting in an official capacity:

(i) The President.

(ii) A Member or Members of Congress, or Congress.

(iii) An individual who is an employee under this section.

(iv) The head of a Government-controlled corporation;

(B) engaged in the performance of a Federal function under authority of law or an Executive act; and

(C) subject to the supervision of an individual described in subparagraph (A) while engaged in the performance of the duties of his or her position; and

(3) the term “leave year” means the period beginning with the first day of the first complete pay period in a calendar year and ending with the day immediately before the first day of the first complete pay period in the following calendar year.

(b) Leave for overseas operations The Secretary or other head of an agency may prescribe regulations to grant up to 10 days of paid leave, per leave year, to an employee of the agency serving abroad for the purpose of local holidays.

(c) Discretionary authority of the Secretary or other agency head Use of the authority under subsection (b) is at the sole and exclusive discretion of the head of the agency concerned.

*([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 903b](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s903b), as added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXII, § 7215(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXII/s7215/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/138/2537).)*
