---
title: "§ 3741. Postal service"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3741"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3741"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1331](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1331), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 481](/us/stat/93/481), 482; [Pub. L. 104–201, div. C, title XXXV, § 3543](/us/pl/104/201/dC/tXXXV/s3543), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2867](/us/stat/110/2867).)"
---
# § 3741. Postal service

##### § 3741. Postal service

(a) Possession or administration of funds by Commission The Commission shall take possession of and administer the funds of the Canal Zone postal service and shall assume its obligations.

(b) Expiration of responsibility for unpaid balances Effective December 1, 1999, neither the Commission nor the United States Government shall be responsible for the distribution of any accumulated unpaid balances relating to Canal Zone postal-savings deposits, postal-savings certificates, and postal money orders.

(c) Mail addressed to Canal Zone from or through United States Mail addressed to the Canal Zone from or through the continental United States may be routed by the United States Postal Service to the military post offices of the United States Armed Forces in the Republic of Panama. Such military post offices shall provide the required directory services and shall accept such mail to the extent permitted under the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and related agreements. The Commission shall furnish personnel, records, and other services to such military post offices to assure wherever appropriate the distribution, rerouting, or return of such mail.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1331](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1331), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 481](/us/stat/93/481), 482; [Pub. L. 104–201, div. C, title XXXV, § 3543](/us/pl/104/201/dC/tXXXV/s3543), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2867](/us/stat/110/2867).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text was comprised of subsecs. (a) to (d) of [section 1331 of Pub. L. 96–70](/us/pl/96/70/s1331) which provided for discontinuation of postal service under former Canal Zone Code, savings provision, possession and administration of postal funds by Commission, and handling of mail addressed to the Canal Zone. Prior to amendment, section 1331 also contained a subsec. (e) which amended sections 403, 3401, 3402, and 3682 of Title 39, Postal Service.
