---
title: "§ 10702. Applications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3022](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3022), as added [Pub. L. 114–198, title II, § 201(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/198/tII/s201/a/1), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 712](/us/stat/130/712).)"
---
# § 10702. Applications

##### § 10702. Applications

(1) A certification that Federal funds made available under this subchapter will not be used to supplant State, local, or tribal funds, but will be used to increase the amounts of such funds that would, in the absence of Federal funds, be made available for the activities described in [section 10701(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10701/a).

(2) An assurance that, for each fiscal year covered by an application, the applicant shall maintain and report such data, records, and information (programmatic and financial) as the Attorney General may reasonably require.

(3) A certification, made in a form acceptable to the Attorney General and executed by the chief executive officer of the applicant (or by another officer of the applicant, if qualified under regulations promulgated by the Attorney General), that—

(A) the activities or services to be funded by the grant meet all the requirements of this subchapter;

(B) all the information contained in the application is correct;

(C) there has been appropriate coordination with affected agencies; and

(D) the applicant will comply with all provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable Federal laws.

(4) An assurance that the applicant will work with the Drug Enforcement Administration to develop an integrated and comprehensive strategy to address opioid abuse.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3022](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3022), as added [Pub. L. 114–198, title II, § 201(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/198/tII/s201/a/1), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 712](/us/stat/130/712).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797ff–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797ff–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
