---
title: "§ 2411. Interest"
identifier: "USC-T28-S2411"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section2411"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 973](/us/stat/62/973); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 120](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s120), [63 Stat. 106](/us/stat/63/106); [Pub. L. 93–625, § 7(a)(2)](/us/pl/93/625/s7/a/2), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2115](/us/stat/88/2115); [Pub. L. 97–164, title III, § 302(b)](/us/pl/97/164/tIII/s302/b), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 56](/us/stat/96/56); [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), title XV, § 1511(c)(18), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/"
---
# § 2411. Interest

##### § 2411. Interest

In any judgment of any court rendered (whether against the United States, a collector or deputy collector of internal revenue, a former collector or deputy collector, or the personal representative in case of death) for any overpayment in respect of any internal-revenue tax, interest shall be allowed at the overpayment rate established under section 6621 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 upon the amount of the overpayment, from the date of the payment or collection thereof to a date preceding the date of the refund check by not more than thirty days, such date to be determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The Commissioner is authorized to tender by check payment of any such judgment, with interest as herein provided, at any time after such judgment becomes final, whether or not a claim for such payment has been duly filed, and such tender shall stop the running of interest, whether or not such refund check is accepted by the judgment creditor.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 973](/us/stat/62/973); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 120](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s120), [63 Stat. 106](/us/stat/63/106); [Pub. L. 93–625, § 7(a)(2)](/us/pl/93/625/s7/a/2), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2115](/us/stat/88/2115); [Pub. L. 97–164, title III, § 302(b)](/us/pl/97/164/tIII/s302/b), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 56](/us/stat/96/56); [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), title XV, § 1511(c)(18), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095), 2746.)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### 1948 Act

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., §§ 765, 931(a), 932, [Mar. 3, 1877, ch. 359, § 10](/us/act/1877-03-03/ch359/s10), [24 Stat. 507](/us/stat/24/507); [Feb. 13, 1925, ch. 229, § 8](/us/act/1925-02-13/ch229/s8), [43 Stat. 940](/us/stat/43/940); [Jan. 31, 1928, ch. 14, § 1](/us/act/1928-01-31/ch14/s1), [45 Stat. 54](/us/stat/45/54); [Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 753](/us/act/1946-08-02/ch753), §§ 410(a), 411, [60 Stat. 843](/us/stat/60/843), 844).

Section consolidates section 765 with provisions of sections 931(a) and 932, all of title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., relating to interest on judgments, the latter two sections being applicable to judgments in tort claims cases. For other provisions of said sections 931(a) and 932, see Distribution Table. Said section 932 made the provisions of said section 765 applicable to such judgments, therefore the provisions of said section 931(a) that “the United States shall not be liable for interest prior to judgment” was omitted as covered by the language of said section 765 providing that interest shall be computed from the date of the judgment.

Provisions of [section 765 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s765), U.S.C., 1940 ed., that when the findings of fact and the law applicable thereto have been filed in any case as provided in “section 763” [764] of title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., and the judgment or decree is adverse to the Government, it shall be the duty of the district attorney to transmit to the Attorney General of the United States certified copies of all the papers filed in the cause, with a transcript of the testimony taken, the written findings of the court, and his written opinion as to the same, that, whereupon, the Attorney General shall determine and direct whether an appeal shall be taken or not, and that, when so directed, the district attorney shall cause an appeal to be perfected in accordance with the terms of the statutes and rules of practice governing the same were omitted as unnecessary and covered by [section 507 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s507) which provides for supervision of United States attorneys by the Attorney General.

Words of [section 765 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s765), U.S.C., 1940 ed., “Until the time when an appropriation is made for the payment of the judgment or decree” were omitted and words “up to, but not exceeding, thirty days after the date of approval of any appropriation act providing for payment of the judgment” were substituted. Substituted words clarify meaning and are in accord with congressional procedure in annual deficiency appropriation acts for payment of judgments against the United States. The substituted words will obviate necessity of repeating such provisions in appropriation acts.

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### 1949 Act

This section amends [section 2411 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2411), U.S.C., by restoring the provisions of section 177 of the former Judicial Code for the payment of interest on tax refunds.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 6621 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in text, is classified to [section 6621 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s6621), Internal Revenue Code.

#### Amendments

1986—[Pub. L. 99–514, § 1511(c)(18)](/us/pl/99/514/s1511/c/18), substituted “the overpayment rate established under section 6621” for “an annual rate established under section 6621”.

[Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”.

1982—[Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) struck out “(a)” before “In any judgment” and struck out subsec. (b) which provided that, except as otherwise provided in subsection (a) of this section, on all final judgments rendered against the United States in actions instituted under [section 1346 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1346), interest was to be computed at the rate of 4 per centum per annum from the date of the judgment up to, but not exceeding, thirty days after the date of approval of any appropriation Act providing for payment of the judgment.

1975—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 93–625](/us/pl/93/625) substituted “an annual rate established under section 6621 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954” for “the rate of 6 per centum per annum”.

1949—Act May 24, 1949, restored provisions relating to payment of interest on tax refunds.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) applicable for purposes of determining interest for periods after Dec. 31, 1986, see [section 1511(d) of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s1511/d), set out as a note under [section 6621 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s6621), Internal Revenue Code.

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) effective Oct. 1, 1982, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164/s402), set out as a note under [section 171 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s171).
