---
title: "§ 285a–10. Research, information, and education with respect to blood cancer"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285a–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285a–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 417D, as added [Pub. L. 107–172, § 3](/us/pl/107/172/s3), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 541](/us/stat/116/541); amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(17)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s103/b/17), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688); [Pub. L. 115–180, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/115/180/tII/s204/a), June 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 1390](/us/stat/132/1390).)"
---
# § 285a–10. Research, information, and education with respect to blood cancer

##### § 285a–10. Research, information, and education with respect to blood cancer

(a) Joe Moakley Research Excellence Program

(1) In general The Director of NIH shall expand, intensify, and coordinate programs for the conduct and support of research with respect to blood cancer, and particularly with respect to leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma.

(2) Administration The Director of NIH shall carry out this subsection through the Director of the National Cancer Institute and in collaboration with any other agencies that the Director determines to be appropriate.

(b) Geraldine Ferraro Cancer Education Program

(1) In general The Secretary shall direct the appropriate agency within the Department of Health and Human Services, in collaboration with the Director of NIH, to establish and carry out a program to provide information and education for patients and the general public with respect to blood cancer, and particularly with respect to the treatment of leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma.

(2) Administration The Agency determined by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall carry out this subsection in collaboration with private health organizations that have national education and patient assistance programs on blood-related cancers.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 417D, as added [Pub. L. 107–172, § 3](/us/pl/107/172/s3), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 541](/us/stat/116/541); amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(17)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s103/b/17), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688); [Pub. L. 115–180, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/115/180/tII/s204/a), June 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 1390](/us/stat/132/1390).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–180](/us/pl/115/180) made technical correction to directory language of [Pub. L. 107–172, § 3](/us/pl/107/172/s3), which enacted this section.

2007—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 109–482, § 103(b)(17)(A)](/us/pl/109/482/s103/b/17/A), struck out heading and text of par. (3). Text read as follows: “For the purpose of carrying out this subsection, there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2002 and each subsequent fiscal year. Such authorizations of appropriations are in addition to other authorizations of appropriations that are available for such purpose.”

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 109–482, § 103(b)(17)(B)](/us/pl/109/482/s103/b/17/B), struck out heading and text of par. (3). Text read as follows: “For the purpose of carrying out this subsection, there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2002 and each subsequent fiscal year. Such authorizations of appropriations are in addition to other authorizations of appropriations that are available for such purpose.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–180, title II, § 204(b)](/us/pl/115/180/tII/s204/b), June 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 1390](/us/stat/132/1390), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending [section 3 of Pub. L. 107–172](/us/pl/107/172/s3)] shall take effect as if included in section 3 of the Hematological Cancer Research Investment and Education Act of 2002 ([Public Law 107–172](/us/pl/107/172); [116 Stat. 541](/us/stat/116/541)) [enacting this section].”

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482/s109), set out as a note under [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s281).

#### Congressional Findings

[Pub. L. 107–172, § 2](/us/pl/107/172/s2), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 541](/us/stat/116/541), provided that: “Congress finds that: “(1) An estimated 109,500 people in the United States will be diagnosed with leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma in 2001. “(2) New cases of the blood cancers described in paragraph (1) account for 8.6 percent of new cancer cases. “(3) Those devastating blood cancers will cause the deaths of an estimated 60,300 persons in the United States in 2001. Every 9 minutes, a person in the United States dies from leukemia, lymphoma, or multiple myeloma. “(4) While less than 5 percent of Federal funds for cancer research are spent on those blood cancers, those blood cancers cause 11 percent of all cancer deaths in the United States. “(5) Increased Federal support of research into leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma has resulted and will continue to result in significant advances in the treatment, and ultimately the cure, of those blood cancers as well as other cancers.”
