---
title: "§ 290bb–21. Center for Substance Abuse Prevention"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290bb–21"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290bb–21"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 515, formerly § 508, as added [Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4005(a)](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4005/a), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–111](/us/stat/100/3207-111); amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title II, § 2051(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tII/s2051/a)–(c), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4206](/us/stat/102/4206); [Pub. L. 101–93, § 3(a)](/us/pl/101/93/s3/a), Aug. 16, 1989, [103 Stat. 609](/us/stat/103/609); [Pub. L. 101–647, title XIX, § 1906](/us/pl/101/647/t"
---
# § 290bb–21. Center for Substance Abuse Prevention

##### § 290bb–21. Center for Substance Abuse Prevention

(a) Establishment; Director There is established in the Administration a Center for Substance Abuse Prevention (hereafter referred to in this part as the “Prevention Center”). The Prevention Center shall be headed by a Director appointed by the Secretary from individuals with extensive experience or academic qualifications in the prevention of drug or alcohol abuse.

(b) Duties of Director The Director of the Prevention Center shall—

(1) sponsor regional workshops on the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse through the reduction of risk and the promotion of resiliency;

(2) coordinate the findings of research sponsored by agencies of the Service on the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse;

(3) collaborate with the Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the Director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and States to promote the study of substance abuse prevention and the dissemination and implementation of research findings that will improve the delivery and effectiveness of substance abuse prevention activities;

(4) develop effective drug and alcohol abuse prevention literature (including educational information on the effects of drugs abused by individuals, including drugs that are emerging as abused drugs);

(5) in cooperation with the Secretary of Education, assure the widespread dissemination of prevention materials among States, political subdivisions, and school systems;

(6) support clinical training programs for health professionals who provide substance use and misuse prevention and treatment services and other health professionals involved in illicit drug use education and prevention;

(7) in cooperation with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, develop and disseminate educational materials to increase awareness for individuals at greatest risk for substance use disorders to prevent the transmission of communicable diseases, such as HIV, hepatitis, tuberculosis, and other communicable diseases;

(8) conduct training, technical assistance, data collection, and evaluation activities of programs supported under the Drug Free Schools and Communities Act of 1986;

(9) support the development of model, innovative, community-based programs that reduce the risk of alcohol and drug abuse among young people and promote resiliency;

(10) collaborate with the Attorney General of the Department of Justice to develop programs to prevent drug abuse among high risk youth;

(11) prepare for distribution documentary films and public service announcements for television and radio to educate the public, especially adolescent audiences, concerning the dangers to health resulting from the consumption of alcohol and drugs and, to the extent feasible, use appropriate private organizations and business concerns in the preparation of such announcements;

(12) develop and support innovative demonstration programs designed to identify and deter the improper use or abuse of anabolic steroids by students, especially students in secondary schools;

(13) ensure the consistent documentation of the application of criteria when awarding grants and the ongoing oversight of grantees after such grants are awarded;

(14) assist and support States in preventing illicit drug use, including emerging illicit drug use issues; and

(15) in consultation with relevant stakeholders and in collaboration with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, develop educational materials for clinicians to use with pregnant women for shared decision making regarding pain management and the prevention of substance use disorders during pregnancy.

(c) Grants, contracts and cooperative agreements The Director may make grants and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements in carrying out subsection (b).

(d) National data base The Director of the Prevention Center shall establish a national data base providing information on programs for the prevention of substance abuse. The data base shall contain information appropriate for use by public entities and information appropriate for use by nonprofit private entities.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 515, formerly § 508, as added [Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4005(a)](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4005/a), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–111](/us/stat/100/3207-111); amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title II, § 2051(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tII/s2051/a)–(c), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4206](/us/stat/102/4206); [Pub. L. 101–93, § 3(a)](/us/pl/101/93/s3/a), Aug. 16, 1989, [103 Stat. 609](/us/stat/103/609); [Pub. L. 101–647, title XIX, § 1906](/us/pl/101/647/tXIX/s1906), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4854](/us/stat/104/4854); renumbered § 515 and amended [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 113(b)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s113/b)–(e), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 345](/us/stat/106/345); [Pub. L. 102–531, title III, § 312(d)(10)](/us/pl/102/531/tIII/s312/d/10), Oct. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 3505](/us/stat/106/3505); [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXI, § 3112(b)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXI/s3112/b), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1188](/us/stat/114/1188); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VI, § 6007(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVI/s6007/b), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/130/1212); [Pub. L. 115–271, title VII, § 7063(a)](/us/pl/115/271/tVII/s7063/a), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4020](/us/stat/132/4020).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act of 1986, referred to in subsec. (b)(8), means title V of [Pub. L. 89–10](/us/pl/89/10) as added by [Pub. L. 100–297, title I, § 1001](/us/pl/100/297/tI/s1001), Apr. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 252](/us/stat/102/252), which was classified generally to subchapter V (§ 3171 et seq.) of chapter 47 of Title 20, Education, prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 89–10](/us/pl/89/10) by [Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101](/us/pl/103/382/tI/s101), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 3519](/us/stat/108/3519).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 290aa–6 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290aa–6) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 515 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 290cc of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 123(c)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s123/c), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 363](/us/stat/106/363).

Another prior section 515 of act July 1, 1944, which was classified to [section 229d of this title](/us/usc/t42/s229d), was successively renumbered by subsequent acts and transferred, see section 238*l* of this title.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b)(15). [Pub. L. 115–271](/us/pl/115/271) added par. (15).

2016—[Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/1), substituted “Center” for “Office” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(2)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/2), substituted “a Center” for “an Office” and “The Prevention Center” for “The Office”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/A), inserted “through the reduction of risk and the promotion of resiliency” before semicolon.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(C)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/C), added par. (3). Former par. (3) redesignated (4).

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/B), (D), redesignated par. (3) as (4) and substituted “educational information on the effects of drugs abused by individuals, including drugs that are emerging as abused drugs” for “literature on the adverse effects of cocaine free base (known as ‘crack’)”. Former par. (4) redesignated (5).

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/B), redesignated par. (4) as (5). Former par. (5) redesignated (6).

Subsec. (b)(6). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/B), (E), redesignated par. (5) as (6) and substituted “health professionals who provide substance use and misuse prevention and treatment services” for “substance abuse counselors” and “illicit drug use education and prevention” for “drug abuse education, prevention,”. Former par. (6) redesignated (7).

Subsec. (b)(7). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/B), (F), redesignated par. (6) as (7) and amended par. (7) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (7) read as follows: “in cooperation with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, develop educational materials to reduce the risks of acquired immune deficiency syndrome among intravenous drug abusers;”. Former par. (7) redesignated (8).

Subsec. (b)(8). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/B), redesignated par. (7) as (8). Former par. (8) redesignated (9).

Subsec. (b)(9). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/B), (G), redesignated par. (8) as (9) and substituted “that reduce the risk of” for “to discourage” and inserted “and promote resiliency” before semicolon. Former par. (9) redesignated (10).

Subsec. (b)(10) to (12). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/B), redesignated pars. (9) to (11) as (10) to (12), respectively.

Subsec. (b)(13), (14). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 6007(b)(3)(H)](/us/pl/114/255/s6007/b/3/H)–(J), added pars. (13) and (14).

2000—Subsec. (b)(9). [Pub. L. 106–310, § 3112(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/310/s3112/b/2), added par. (9). Former par. (9) redesignated (10).

Subsec. (b)(10). [Pub. L. 106–310, § 3112(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/310/s3112/b/1), (3), redesignated par. (9) as (10) and substituted “educate the public, especially adolescent audiences, concerning” for “educate the public concerning”. Former par. (10) redesignated (11).

Subsec. (b)(11). [Pub. L. 106–310, § 3112(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/310/s3112/b/1), redesignated par. (10) as (11).

1992—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–321, § 113(e)(1)](/us/pl/102/321/s113/e/1), substituted “(hereafter referred to in this part as the ‘Prevention Center’)” for “(hereafter in this part referred to as the ‘Office’)”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–321, § 113(e)(2)](/us/pl/102/321/s113/e/2), substituted “Prevention Center” for “Office” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 102–321, § 113(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/321/s113/c/1), struck out “and intervention” after “prevention,”.

Subsec. (b)(6). [Pub. L. 102–531](/us/pl/102/531), which directed the amendment of “section 508(b)(6) ([42 U.S.C. 290aa–6(b)(6)](/us/usc/t42/s290aa–6/b/6))” of act July 1, 1944, by substituting “Centers for Disease Control and Prevention” for “Centers for Disease Control”, was executed to subsec. (b)(6) of this section to reflect the probable intent of Congress and the intervening renumbering of section 508 of act July 1, 1944, as section 515 of that act by [Pub. L. 102–321, § 113(b)(2)](/us/pl/102/321/s113/b/2).

Subsec. (b)(9). [Pub. L. 102–321, § 113(c)(4)](/us/pl/102/321/s113/c/4), inserted “and” after semicolon at end.

Subsec. (b)(10) to (12). [Pub. L. 102–321, § 113(c)(2)](/us/pl/102/321/s113/c/2)–(4), redesignated par. (12) as (10) and struck out former pars. (10) and (11) which read as follows:

“(10)(A) provide assistance to communities to develop comprehensive long-term strategies for the prevention of substance abuse; and

“(B) evaluate the success of different community approaches toward the prevention of substance abuse;

“(11) through schools of health professions, schools of allied health professions, schools of nursing, and schools of social work, carry out programs—

“(A) to train individuals in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and drug abuse; and

“(B) to develop appropriate curricula and materials for the training described in subparagraph (A); and”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 102–321, § 113(d)](/us/pl/102/321/s113/d), amended subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (d) read as follows:

“(1) For the purpose of carrying out this section and sections 290aa–7, 290aa–8, and 290aa–13 of this title, there are authorized to be appropriated $95,000,000 for fiscal year 1989 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1990 and 1991.

“(2) Of the amounts appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall make available not less than $5,000,000 to carry out paragraphs (5) and (11) of subsection (b) of this section.”

1990—Subsec. (b)(12). [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647) added par. (12).

1989—Subsec. (b)(11)(B). [Pub. L. 101–93, § 3(a)(2)](/us/pl/101/93/s3/a/2), substituted “subparagraph (A)” for “subparagraph (a)”.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 101–93, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/93/s3/a/1), inserted a comma after “290aa–13 of this title”.

1988—Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 2051(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/s2051/b/1), amended par. (5) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (5) read as follows: “support programs of clinical training of substance abuse counselors and other health professionals;”.

Subsec. (b)(10). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 2051(b)(2)](/us/pl/100/690/s2051/b/2) added par. (10).

Subsec. (b)(11). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 2051(c)](/us/pl/100/690/s2051/c), added par. (11).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 2051(a)](/us/pl/100/690/s2051/a), amended subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (d) read as follows: “Of the amounts available under the second sentence of [section 300y(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300y/a) to carry out this section and [section 290aa–8 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290aa–8), $20,000,000 shall be available to carry out [section 290aa–8 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290aa–8).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321) effective Oct. 1, 1992, with provision for programs providing financial assistance, see section 801(c), (d) of [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321), set out as a note under [section 236 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s236).
