---
title: "§ 1503. Exclusions"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–4, § 4](/us/pl/104/4/s4), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 49](/us/stat/109/49).)"
---
# § 1503. Exclusions

##### § 1503. Exclusions

(1) enforces constitutional rights of individuals;

(2) establishes or enforces any statutory rights that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap, or disability;

(3) requires compliance with accounting and auditing procedures with respect to grants or other money or property provided by the Federal Government;

(4) provides for emergency assistance or relief at the request of any State, local, or tribal government or any official of a State, local, or tribal government;

(5) is necessary for the national security or the ratification or implementation of international treaty obligations;

(6) the President designates as emergency legislation and that the Congress so designates in statute; or

(7) relates to the old-age, survivors, and disability insurance program under title II of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t42/s401) et seq.] (including taxes imposed by sections 3101(a) and 3111(a) of title 26 (relating to old-age, survivors, and disability insurance)).

*([Pub. L. 104–4, § 4](/us/pl/104/4/s4), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 49](/us/stat/109/49).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 104–4](/us/pl/104/4), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 48](/us/stat/109/48), known as the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1501 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1501) and Tables.

The Social Security Act, referred to in par. (7), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Title II of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 401 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.
