---
title: "§ 149. Indian Water Rights Settlement Completion Fund"
identifier: "USC-T25-S149"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section149"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. G, title I, § 70101](/us/pl/117/58/dG/tI/s70101), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1250](/us/stat/135/1250).)"
---
# § 149. Indian Water Rights Settlement Completion Fund

##### § 149. Indian Water Rights Settlement Completion Fund

(a) Establishment There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the “Indian Water Rights Settlement Completion Fund” (referred to in this section as the “Fund”).

(b) Deposits

(1) In general On the later of October 1, 2021, and November 15, 2021, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit in the Fund $2,500,000,000, to remain available until expended.

(2) Availability Amounts deposited in the Fund under paragraph (1) shall be available to the Secretary of the Interior, without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation, for the uses described in subsection (c).

(c) Uses Subject to subsection (d), amounts deposited in the Fund under subsection (b) shall be used by the Secretary of the Interior for transfers to funds or accounts authorized to receive discretionary appropriations, or to satisfy other obligations identified by the Secretary of the Interior, under an Indian water settlement approved and authorized by an Act of Congress before November 15, 2021.

(d) Scope of transfers

(1) In general Transfers authorized under subsection (c) shall be made in such amounts as are determined by the Secretary of the Interior to be appropriate to satisfy the obligations of the United States, including appropriate indexing, pursuant to the applicable Indian water settlement.

(2) Sequence and timing The Secretary of the Interior shall have the discretion to determine the sequence and timing of transfers from the Fund under subsection (c) in order to substantially complete the eligible Indian water settlements as expeditiously as practicable.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. G, title I, § 70101](/us/pl/117/58/dG/tI/s70101), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1250](/us/stat/135/1250).)*
