---
title: "§ 3362. Foreign Terrorist Asset Tracking Center"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3362"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3362"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–306, title III, § 341](/us/pl/107/306/tIII/s341), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2398](/us/stat/116/2398); [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(g)(2)(C)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/g/2/C), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3691](/us/stat/118/3691).)"
---
# § 3362. Foreign Terrorist Asset Tracking Center

##### § 3362. Foreign Terrorist Asset Tracking Center

(a) Establishment The Director of National Intelligence shall establish within the Central Intelligence Agency an element responsible for conducting all-source intelligence analysis of information relating to the financial capabilities, practices, and activities of individuals, groups, and nations associated with international terrorism in their activities relating to international terrorism.

(b) Designation The element established under subsection (a) shall be known as the Foreign Terrorist Asset Tracking Center.

(c) Deadline for establishment The element required by subsection (a) shall be established as soon as practicable after November 27, 2002, but not later than 90 days after November 27, 2002.

*([Pub. L. 107–306, title III, § 341](/us/pl/107/306/tIII/s341), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2398](/us/stat/116/2398); [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(g)(2)(C)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/g/2/C), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3691](/us/stat/118/3691).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 404n–1 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404n–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) substituted “Director of National Intelligence shall establish within the Central Intelligence Agency” for “Director of Central Intelligence, acting as the head of the intelligence community, shall establish in the Central Intelligence Agency”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

For Determination by President that amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
