---
title: "§ 1862u. NSF support of research on opioid addiction"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1862u"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1862u"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–335, § 2](/us/pl/116/335/s2), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5117](/us/stat/134/5117).)"
---
# § 1862u. NSF support of research on opioid addiction

##### § 1862u. NSF support of research on opioid addiction

The Director of the National Science Foundation, in consultation with the Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall support merit-reviewed and competitively awarded research on the science of opioid addiction.

*([Pub. L. 116–335, § 2](/us/pl/116/335/s2), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5117](/us/stat/134/5117).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Expanding Findings for Federal Opioid Research and Treatment Act, also known as the EFFORT Act, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Findings

[Pub. L. 116–335, § 1(b)](/us/pl/116/335/s1/b), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5117](/us/stat/134/5117), provided that: “The Congress finds that— “(1) research gaps currently exist in the prevention and treatment of opioid addiction; “(2) the National Science Foundation’s research on opioid addiction has increased understanding of the neuroscience of addiction, substance abuse intervention, the role of illicit supply networks, the secondary effects on families, the use of technology to address the opioid epidemic, and options for alternative, non-addictive therapeutics for pain; and “(3) the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health have recognized that fundamental questions in basic, clinical, and translational research would benefit greatly from multidisciplinary approaches and collaboration.”
