---
title: "§ 2443. Notification of employee practices affecting national security"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2443"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2443"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3245](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3245), as added [Pub. L. 114–92, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/92/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a/1), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1186](/us/stat/129/1186); amended [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXI/s3131/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2229](/us/stat/135/2229).)"
---
# § 2443. Notification of employee practices affecting national security

##### § 2443. Notification of employee practices affecting national security

(a) Annual notification of security clearance revocations At or about the time that the President’s budget is submitted to Congress under [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a), the Administrator shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of—

(1) the number of covered employees whose security clearance was revoked during the year prior to the year in which the notification is made; and

(2) for each employee counted under paragraph (1), the length of time such employee has been employed at the Administration, as the case may be, since such revocation.

(b) Annual notification of terminations and removals Not later than December 31 of each year, the Administrator shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of each instance in which the Administrator terminated the employment of a covered employee or removed and reassigned a covered employee for cause during that year.

(c) Definitions In this section:

(1) The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the congressional defense committees; and

(B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.

(2) The term “covered employee” means—

(A) an employee of the Administration; or

(B) an employee of an element of the Department of Energy (other than the Administration) involved in nuclear security.

*([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3245](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3245), as added [Pub. L. 114–92, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/92/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a/1), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1186](/us/stat/129/1186); amended [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXI/s3131/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2229](/us/stat/135/2229).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2443, [Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3245](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3245), as added [Pub. L. 106–377, § 1(a)(2) [title III, § 315]](/us/pl/106/377/s1/a/2/tIII/s315), Oct. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/114/1441), 1441A–81, related to prohibition on pay of personnel engaged in concurrent service or duties inside and outside Administration, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 107–107, div. C, title XXXI, § 3143](/us/pl/107/107/dC/tXXXI/s3143), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1371](/us/stat/115/1371).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) added subsecs. (a) and (b) and struck out former subsecs. (a) and (b), which related to annual notification and notification to congressional committees, respectively.
