---
title: "§ 11384. Incentives for high-performing communities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11384"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11384"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 424](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s424), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title III, § 1303](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tIII/s1303), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1687](/us/stat/123/1687).)"
---
# § 11384. Incentives for high-performing communities

##### § 11384. Incentives for high-performing communities

(a) Designation as a high-performing community

(1) In general The Secretary shall designate, on an annual basis, which collaborative applicants represent high-performing communities.

(2) Consideration In determining whether to designate a collaborative applicant as a high-performing community under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall establish criteria to ensure that the requirements described under paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(B) of subsection (d) are measured by comparing homeless individuals and families under similar circumstances, in order to encourage projects in the geographic area to serve homeless individuals and families with more severe barriers to housing stability.

(3) 2-year phase in In each of the first 2 years after the effective date under section 1503 of the Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing Act of 2009, the Secretary shall designate not more than 10 collaborative applicants as high-performing communities.

(4) Excess of qualified applicants If, during the 2-year period described under paragraph (2), more than 10 collaborative applicants could qualify to be designated as high-performing communities, the Secretary shall designate the 10 that have, in the discretion of the Secretary, the best performance based on the criteria described under subsection (d).

(5) Time limit on designation The designation of any collaborative applicant as a high-performing community under this subsection shall be effective only for the year in which such designation is made. The Secretary, on an annual basis, may renew any such designation.

(b) Application

(1) In general A collaborative applicant seeking designation as a high-performing community under subsection (a) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, and in such manner as the Secretary may require.

(2) Content of application In any application submitted under paragraph (1), a collaborative applicant shall include in such application—

(A) a report showing how any money received under this part in the preceding year was expended; and

(B) information that such applicant can meet the requirements described under subsection (d).

(3) Publication of application The Secretary shall—

(A) publish any report or information submitted in an application under this section in the geographic area represented by the collaborative applicant; and

(B) seek comments from the public as to whether the collaborative applicant seeking designation as a high-performing community meets the requirements described under subsection (d).

(c) Use of funds Funds awarded under [section 11382(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11382/a) to a project sponsor who is located in a high-performing community may be used—

(1) for any of the eligible activities described in [section 11383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11383); or

(2) for any of the eligible activities described in paragraphs (4) and (5) of [section 11374(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11374/a).

(d) Definition of high-performing community For purposes of this section, the term “high-performing community” means a geographic area that demonstrates through reliable data that all five of the following requirements are met for that geographic area:

(1) Term of homelessness The mean length of episodes of homelessness for that geographic area—

(A) is less than 20 days; or

(B) for individuals and families in similar circumstances in the preceding year was at least 10 percent less than in the year before.

(2) Families leaving homelessness Of individuals and families—

(A) who leave homelessness, fewer than 5 percent of such individuals and families become homeless again at any time within the next 2 years; or

(B) in similar circumstances who leave homelessness, the percentage of such individuals and families who become homeless again within the next 2 years has decreased by at least 20 percent from the preceding year.

(3) Community action The communities that compose the geographic area have—

(A) actively encouraged homeless individuals and families to participate in homeless assistance services available in that geographic area; and

(B) included each homeless individual or family who sought homeless assistance services in the data system used by that community for determining compliance with this subsection.

(4) Effectiveness of previous activities If recipients in the geographic area have used funding awarded under [section 11382(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11382/a) for eligible activities described under [section 11374(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11374/a) in previous years based on the authority granted under subsection (c), that such activities were effective at reducing the number of individuals and families who became homeless in that community.

(5) Flexibility to serve persons defined as homeless under other Federal laws With respect to collaborative applicants exercising the authority under [section 11382(j) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11382/j) to serve homeless families with children and youth defined as homeless under other Federal statutes, effectiveness in achieving the goals and outcomes identified in subsection 11 So in original. Probably should be “section”. 11386a(b)(1)(F) of this title according to such standards as the Secretary shall promulgate.

(e) Cooperation among entities A collaborative applicant designated as a high-performing community under this section shall cooperate with the Secretary in distributing information about successful efforts within the geographic area represented by the collaborative applicant to reduce homelessness.

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 424](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s424), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title III, § 1303](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tIII/s1303), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1687](/us/stat/123/1687).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The effective date under section 1503 of the Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing Act of 2009, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), is the effective date under [section 1503 of title V of div. B of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tV/s1503), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 11302 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11302).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 11384, [Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 424](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s424), as added [Pub. L. 102–550, title XIV, § 1403(a)](/us/pl/102/550/tXIV/s1403/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4016](/us/stat/106/4016), which related to supportive housing, was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title III, § 1303](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tIII/s1303), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1687](/us/stat/123/1687).

Another prior section 11384, [Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 424](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s424), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 501](/us/stat/101/501); [Pub. L. 100–628, title IV](/us/pl/100/628/tIV), §§ 442(b)(2), 448(b), 450(a)(1), (b), 451, Nov. 7, 1988, [102 Stat. 3233–3235](/us/stat/102/3233-3235); [Pub. L. 101–625, title VIII, § 833(f)](/us/pl/101/625/tVIII/s833/f), (h)–(j), (k)(2), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4363–4365](/us/stat/104/4363-4365), which provided for applications, selection criteria, and other program requirements for assistance under the supportive housing demonstration program, was repealed by [Pub. L. 102–550, title XIV, § 1403(a)](/us/pl/102/550/tXIV/s1403/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4013](/us/stat/106/4013).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of 18 months after May 20, 2009, or 3 months after publication of certain final regulations by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see [section 1503 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1503), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 11302 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11302).
