---
title: "§ 413. Designation of agent for service; method of service"
identifier: "USC-T47-S413"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section413"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title IV, § 413, [48 Stat. 1099](/us/stat/48/1099); [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 304(a)(11)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s304/a/11), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4297](/us/stat/108/4297).)"
---
# § 413. Designation of agent for service; method of service

##### § 413. Designation of agent for service; method of service

It shall be the duty of every carrier subject to this chapter to designate in writing an agent in the District of Columbia, upon whom service of all notices and process and all orders, decisions, and requirements of the Commission may be made for and on behalf of said carrier in any proceeding or suit pending before the Commission, and to file such designation in the office of the secretary of the Commission, which designation may from time to time be changed by like writing similarly filed; and thereupon service of all notices and process and orders, decisions, and requirements of the Commission may be made upon such carrier by leaving a copy thereof with such designated agent at his office or usual place of residence in the District of Columbia, with like effect as if made personally upon such carrier, and in default of such designation of such agent, service of any notice or other process in any proceeding before said Commission, or of any order, decision, or requirement of the Commission, may be made by posting such notice, process, order, requirement, or decision in the office of the secretary of the Commission.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title IV, § 413, [48 Stat. 1099](/us/stat/48/1099); [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 304(a)(11)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s304/a/11), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4297](/us/stat/108/4297).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–414](/us/pl/103/414) struck out “, within sixty days after the taking effect of this chapter,” after “every carrier subject to this chapter”.
