---
title: "§ 726. Annual report on performance awards and bonuses awarded to certain high-level employees"
identifier: "USC-T38-S726"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section726"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title V, § 501(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tV/s501/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1474](/us/stat/132/1474); amended [Pub. L. 115–251, title II, § 211(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/251/tII/s211/a/1), Sept. 29, 2018, [132 Stat. 3174](/us/stat/132/3174).)"
---
# § 726. Annual report on performance awards and bonuses awarded to certain high-level employees

##### § 726. Annual report on performance awards and bonuses awarded to certain high-level employees

(a) In General.— Not later than 100 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that contains, for the most recent fiscal year ending before the submittal of the report, a description of all performance awards or bonuses awarded to each of the following:

(1) Regional Office Director of the Department.

(2) Director of a Medical Center of the Department.

(3) Director of a Veterans Integrated Service Network.

(4) Senior executive of the Department.

(b) Elements.— Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include the following with respect to each performance award or bonus awarded to an individual described in such subsection:

(1) The amount of each award or bonus.

(2) The job title of the individual awarded the award or bonus.

(3) The location where the individual awarded the award or bonus works.

(c) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “appropriate committees of Congress” means the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs and Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives.

(2) The term “senior executive” means—

(A) a career appointee; or

(B) an individual—

(i) in an administrative or executive position; and

(ii) appointed under section 7306(a) or [section 7401(1) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7401/1).

(3) The term “career appointee” has the meaning given that term in [section 3132(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3132/a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title V, § 501(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tV/s501/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1474](/us/stat/132/1474); amended [Pub. L. 115–251, title II, § 211(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/251/tII/s211/a/1), Sept. 29, 2018, [132 Stat. 3174](/us/stat/132/3174).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 501(a) of Pub. L. 115–182](/us/pl/115/182/s501/a), which directed that this section be added at the end of this chapter, was executed by adding this section at the end of this subchapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 115–251](/us/pl/115/251) struck out “, United States Code” after “of title 5”.
