---
title: "§ 6455. Working groups"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6455"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6455"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title C, § 10015](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tC/s10015), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3954](/us/stat/136/3954).)"
---
# § 6455. Working groups

##### § 6455. Working groups

(a) In general The co-chairpersons of the Task Force may establish working groups as necessary to meet the goals and carry out the duties of the Task Force.

(b) Requests from members The members of the Task Force may request that the co-chairpersons establish a working group under subsection (a).

(c) Participation by nongovernmental organizations The co-chairpersons may allow nongovernmental organizations as appropriate, including academic institutions, conservation groups, and commercial and recreational fishing associations, to participate in a working group established under subsection (a).

(d) Nonapplicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) 11 See References in Text note below. shall not apply to working groups established under this section.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title C, § 10015](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tC/s10015), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3954](/us/stat/136/3954).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is [Pub. L. 92–463](/us/pl/92/463), Oct. 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 770](/us/stat/86/770), which was set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and was substantially repealed and restated in chapter 10 (§ 1001 et seq.) of Title 5 by [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286), §§ 3(a), 7, Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4197](/us/stat/136/4197), 4361. For disposition of sections of the Act into chapter 10 of Title 5, see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s101).
