---
title: "§ 2151b–4. Assistance to combat malaria"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2151b–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2151b–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 104C, as added [Pub. L. 108–25, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/108/25/tIII/s303/a), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 736](/us/stat/117/736); amended [Pub. L. 110–293, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/110/293/tIII/s303/a), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2960](/us/stat/122/2960).)"
---
# § 2151b–4. Assistance to combat malaria

##### § 2151b–4. Assistance to combat malaria

(a) Finding Congress finds that malaria kills more people annually than any other communicable disease except tuberculosis, that more than 90 percent of all malaria cases are in sub-Saharan Africa, and that children and women are particularly at risk. Congress recognizes that there are cost-effective tools to decrease the spread of malaria and that malaria is a curable disease if promptly diagnosed and adequately treated.

(b) Policy It is a major objective of the foreign assistance program of the United States to provide assistance for the prevention, control, treatment, and cure of malaria.

(c) Authorization To carry out this section and consistent with [section 2151b(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151b/c), the President is authorized to furnish assistance, on such terms and conditions as the President may determine, for the prevention, treatment, control, and elimination of malaria.

(d) Coordination In carrying out this section, the President shall coordinate with the World Health Organization, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, the Department of Health and Human Services (the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health), and other organizations with respect to the development and implementation of a comprehensive malaria control program.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 104C, as added [Pub. L. 108–25, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/108/25/tIII/s303/a), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 736](/us/stat/117/736); amended [Pub. L. 110–293, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/110/293/tIII/s303/a), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2960](/us/stat/122/2960).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–293](/us/pl/110/293) inserted “treatment,” after “control,”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
