---
title: "§ 1962d–5c. Non-Federal public bodies, installment construction payments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1962d–5c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1962d–5c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–251, title I, § 40](/us/pl/93/251/tI/s40), Mar. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 23](/us/stat/88/23).)"
---
# § 1962d–5c. Non-Federal public bodies, installment construction payments

##### § 1962d–5c. Non-Federal public bodies, installment construction payments

(a) Annual installments during period of construction in absence of other provision for extended repayment In connection with any water resource development project, heretofore, herein, or hereafter authorized to be undertaken by the Secretary of the Army, the construction of which has not been initiated as of March 7, 1974, where authorization requires that non-Federal public bodies make an agreed-upon cash contribution as part of their reimbursement to the Federal Government for construction costs, or a specific portion of the construction costs, and where there exists no other provision of law which would permit extended repayment for the construction costs or such specific portion of the construction costs involved, such non-Federal public bodies may make such repayment in annual installments during the period of construction.

(b) Cost sharing; modification Upon the request of affected non-Federal public bodies, the Secretary of the Army is authorized to modify existing cost sharing agreements in order to effectuate the provisions of subsection (a) of this section.

*([Pub. L. 93–251, title I, § 40](/us/pl/93/251/tI/s40), Mar. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 23](/us/stat/88/23).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1974, and not as part of the Water Resources Planning Act which comprises this chapter.
