---
title: "§ 608. Absent uniformed services voters and overseas voters"
identifier: "USC-T18-S608"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section608"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–410, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/99/410/tII/s202/a), Aug. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 929](/us/stat/100/929).)"
---
# § 608. Absent uniformed services voters and overseas voters

##### § 608. Absent uniformed services voters and overseas voters

(a) Whoever knowingly deprives or attempts to deprive any person of a right under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act shall be fined in accordance with this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.

(b) Whoever knowingly gives false information for the purpose of establishing the eligibility of any person to register or vote under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, or pays or offers to pay, or accepts payment for registering or voting under such Act shall be fined in accordance with this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–410, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/99/410/tII/s202/a), Aug. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 929](/us/stat/100/929).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 99–410](/us/pl/99/410), Aug. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 924](/us/stat/100/924), which was formerly classified principally to subchapter I–G (§ 1973ff et seq.) of chapter 20 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering in Title 52, Voting and Elections, and is now classified principally to chapter 203 (§ 20301 et seq.) of Title 52. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 608, acts [June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 723](/us/stat/62/723); Feb. 7, 1972, [Pub. L. 92–225, title II, § 203](/us/pl/92/225/tII/s203), [86 Stat. 9](/us/stat/86/9); Oct. 15, 1974, [Pub. L. 93–443, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/93/443/tI/s101/a), (b), [88 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/88/1263), 1266, set limitations on campaign contributions and expenditures, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 94–283, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/94/283/tII/s201/a), May 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 496](/us/stat/90/496). See [section 30116 of Title 52](/us/usc/t52/s30116), Voting and Elections.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to elections taking place after Dec. 31, 1987, see [section 204 of Pub. L. 99–410](/us/pl/99/410/s204), set out as a note under [section 20301 of Title 52](/us/usc/t52/s20301), Voting and Elections.
