---
title: "§ 1476a. Unsworn written statements subject to penalties of presenting false claims"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1476a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1476a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([June 3, 1948, ch. 392, § 2](/us/act/1948-06-03/ch392/s2), [62 Stat. 301](/us/stat/62/301).)"
---
# § 1476a. Unsworn written statements subject to penalties of presenting false claims

##### § 1476a. Unsworn written statements subject to penalties of presenting false claims

Unsworn written statements made in public land matters within the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior shall remain subject to [section 1001 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1001).

*([June 3, 1948, ch. 392, § 2](/us/act/1948-06-03/ch392/s2), [62 Stat. 301](/us/stat/62/301).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1212 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1212) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

“[Section 1001 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1001)” substituted in text for “section 35(A) of the Criminal Code ([35 Stat. 1095](/us/stat/35/1095), 18 U.S.C. sec. 80), as amended” on authority of [act June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 683](/us/stat/62/683), the first section of which enacted Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Exemption of Department of the Interior From Restrictions on Notary Public

[Act June 3, 1948, ch. 392, § 3](/us/act/1948-06-03/ch392/s3), [62 Stat. 301](/us/stat/62/301), provided: “That part of [section 558 of the Act of March 3, 1901](/us/act/1901-03-03/s558), entitled ‘An Act to establish a code of law for the District of Columbia’ ([31 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/31/1279)), as amended December 15, 1944 ([58 Stat. 810](/us/stat/58/810), D.C. Code, 1951 edition, sec. 1–501 [now sec. 1–1201(a)]), which reads as follows: *‘And provided further*, That no notary public shall be authorized to take acknowledgments, administer oaths, certify papers, or perform any official acts in connection with matters in which he is employed as counsel, attorney or agent or in which he may be in any way interested before any of the Departments aforesaid’ shall not apply to matters before the Department of the Interior.”
