---
title: "§ 11314. Director and staff"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11314"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11314"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title II, § 204](/us/pl/100/77/tII/s204), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 488](/us/stat/101/488).)"
---
# § 11314. Director and staff

##### § 11314. Director and staff

(a) Director The Council shall appoint an Executive Director, who shall be compensated at a rate not to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under [section 5316 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5316). The Council shall appoint an Executive Director at the first meeting of the Council held under [section 11312(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11312/c).

(b) Additional personnel With the approval of the Council, the Executive Director of the Council may appoint and fix the compensation of such additional personnel as the Executive Director considers necessary to carry out the duties of the Council.

(c) Details from other agencies Upon request of the Council, the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Council to assist the Council in carrying out its duties under this subchapter. Upon request of the Council, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of the Department of Health and Human Services who have served the Federal Task Force on the Homeless of the Department to assist the Council in carrying out its duties under this subchapter.

(d) Administrative support The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall provide the Council with such administrative and support services as are necessary to ensure that the Council carries out its functions under this subchapter in an efficient and expeditious manner.

(e) Experts and consultants With the approval of the Council, the Executive Director of the Council may procure temporary and intermittent services under [section 3109(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109/b).

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title II, § 204](/us/pl/100/77/tII/s204), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 488](/us/stat/101/488).)*
