---
title: "§ 5116. Status of overdue reports"
identifier: "USC-T14-S5116"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section5116"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXI, § 7114(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXI/s7114/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1668](/us/stat/139/1668).)"
---
# § 5116. Status of overdue reports

##### § 5116. Status of overdue reports

(a) In General.— Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this section, and not later than March 1 of each year thereafter, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the status of reports or briefings required under this chapter that have not been delivered to Congress.

(b) Contents.— The report required under section (a) shall contain the following:

(1) The status of each required report or briefing that has not been delivered to Congress, including the date the report or briefing is due, and if applicable, the number of days the Coast Guard has exceeded the required completion date.

(2) A detailed written plan and timeline for the next steps to be taken to complete such outstanding reports or briefings.

(3) The name, position, and agency of each Federal official responsible for writing, reviewing, editing, and approving the report, as well as the responsibility of such official in regard to the report, and how long that report has been under the responsibility with such Federal official after being received from the previous Federal official responsible.

(4) The name of the flag officer responsible for the completion of each report or briefing.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXI, § 7114(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXI/s7114/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1668](/us/stat/139/1668).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60), which was approved Dec. 18, 2025.
