---
title: "§ 2000aa–7. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000aa–7"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000aa–7"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–440, title I, § 107](/us/pl/96/440/tI/s107), Oct. 13, 1980, [94 Stat. 1881](/us/stat/94/1881).)"
---
# § 2000aa–7. Definitions

##### § 2000aa–7. Definitions

(a) “Documentary materials”, as used in this chapter, means materials upon which information is recorded, and includes, but is not limited to, written or printed materials, photographs, motion picture films, negatives, video tapes, audio tapes, and other mechanically, magentically 11 So in original. Probably should be “magnetically”. or electronically recorded cards, tapes, or discs, but does not include contraband or the fruits of a crime or things otherwise criminally possessed, or property designed or intended for use, or which is or has been used as, the means of committing a criminal offense.

(b) “Work product materials”, as used in this chapter, means materials, other than contraband or the fruits of a crime or things otherwise criminally possessed, or property designed or intended for use, or which is or has been used, as the means of committing a criminal offense, and—

(1) in anticipation of communicating such materials to the public, are prepared, produced, authored, or created, whether by the person in possession of the materials or by any other person;

(2) are possessed for the purposes of communicating such materials to the public; and

(3) include mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or theories of the person who prepared, produced, authored, or created such material.

(c) “Any other governmental unit”, as used in this chapter, includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, and any local government, unit of local government, or any unit of State government.

*([Pub. L. 96–440, title I, § 107](/us/pl/96/440/tI/s107), Oct. 13, 1980, [94 Stat. 1881](/us/stat/94/1881).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1981, except that insofar as such provisions are applicable to a State or any governmental unit other than the United States, the section is effective one year from Oct. 13, 1980, see [section 108 of Pub. L. 96–440](/us/pl/96/440/s108), set out as a note under [section 2000aa of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000aa).
