---
title: "§ 15722. Records: form; inspection; preservation"
identifier: "USC-T49-S15722"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section15722"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 926](/us/stat/109/926).)"
---
# § 15722. Records: form; inspection; preservation

##### § 15722. Records: form; inspection; preservation

(a) Form of Records.— The Board may prescribe the form of records required to be prepared or compiled under this subchapter by pipeline carriers and lessors, including records related to movement of traffic and receipts and expenditures of money.

(b) Inspection.— The Board, or an employee designated by the Board, may on demand and display of proper credentials—

(1) inspect and examine the lands, buildings, and equipment of a pipeline carrier or lessor; and

(2) inspect and copy any record of—

(A) a pipeline carrier, lessor, or association; and

(B) a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with a pipeline carrier if the Board considers inspection relevant to that person’s relation to, or transaction with, that carrier.

(c) Preservation Period.— The Board may prescribe the time period during which operating, accounting, and financial records must be preserved by pipeline carriers and lessors.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 926](/us/stat/109/926).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 11144 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s11144) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
