---
title: "§ 8551. Development and operation of the Naval Innovation Center at the Naval Postgraduate School"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8551"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8551"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2872](/us/pl/118/159/dB/tXXVIII/s2872), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2281](/us/stat/138/2281).)"
---
# § 8551. Development and operation of the Naval Innovation Center at the Naval Postgraduate School

##### § 8551. Development and operation of the Naval Innovation Center at the Naval Postgraduate School

(a) Authority to Support the Naval Innovation Center.—

(1) The Secretary of the Navy may enter into a contract or other agreement with one or more eligible nonprofit organizations for the design, construction, and maintenance of a multipurpose facility—

(A) to be known as the “Naval Innovation Center” (in this section referred to as the “NIC”); and

(B) to be located at the United States Naval Postgraduate School.

(2) The NIC shall be used—

(A) to convene interested persons to develop and accelerate the adoption of new and innovative technologies and practices for the benefit of the Department of Defense; and

(B) to support such education, training, research, and associated activities, as determined by the Secretary, in support of the Naval Postgraduate School and the Department of Defense.

(b) Funds.— Under the contract or other agreement described in subsection (a), the Secretary may—

(1) accept funds from a partner organization for any phase of development of the NIC; and

(2) accept funds, personal property, or services from a covered entity that is not a partner organization for maintenance of the NIC.

(c) Authority to Accept Gifts.—

(1) The Secretary of the Navy may accept, hold, administer, and spend any gift, device, or bequest of real property, personal property, services, or money on the condition that the gift, device, or bequest be used for the benefit, or in connection with, the establishment, operation, or maintenance of the NIC. [Section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2601) (other than subsections (b), (c), and (e) of such section) shall apply to gifts accepted under this subsection.

(2) The Secretary may display at the NIC recognition for an individual or entity that contributes money to a partner organization or for a corporate partner that contributes money directly to the Navy for the benefit of the NIC, whether or not the contribution is subject to the condition that the recognition be provided. The Secretary shall prescribe regulations governing the circumstances under which contributor recognition may be provided, appropriate forms of recognition, and suitable display standards.

(3) The Secretary may authorize the sale of donated property received under paragraph (1). A sale under this paragraph need not be conducted in accordance with disposal requirements that would otherwise apply, so long as the sale is conducted at arms-length and includes an auditable transaction record.

(4) Any money received under paragraph (1) and any proceeds from the sale of property under paragraph (3) shall be deposited into a fund established in the Treasury to support the NIC.

(d) Additional Terms and Conditions.— The Secretary of the Navy may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with a contract or other agreement described in subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

(e) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “covered entity” means—

(A) an entity incorporated or operating under the laws of any State; or

(B) a nonprofit organization.

(2) The term “eligible nonprofit organization” means an organization that—

(A) is described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code; and

(B) has as its primary purpose the support and operation of the Naval Postgraduate School.

(3) The term “partner organization” means an eligible nonprofit organization with which the Secretary of the Navy enters into a contract or other agreement under subsection (a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2872](/us/pl/118/159/dB/tXXVIII/s2872), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2281](/us/stat/138/2281).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (e)(2)(A), is classified to [section 501 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501), Internal Revenue Code.
