---
title: "§ 7313. General requirements for members of engine departments"
identifier: "USC-T46-S7313"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section7313"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 544](/us/stat/97/544); [Pub. L. 104–324, title VII, § 724](/us/pl/104/324/tVII/s724), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3939](/us/stat/110/3939).)"
---
# § 7313. General requirements for members of engine departments

##### § 7313. General requirements for members of engine departments

(a) Classes of endorsement as qualified members of the engine department on vessels of at least 100 gross tons as measured under [section 14502 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14502), or an alternate tonnage measured under [section 14302 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14302) as prescribed by the Secretary under [section 14104 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14104) (except vessels operating on rivers or lakes (except the Great Lakes)) may be prescribed by regulation.

(b) The ratings of wiper and coal passer are entry ratings and are not ratings as qualified members of the engine department.

(c) An applicant for an endorsement as qualified member of the engine department must provide satisfactory proof that the applicant—

(1) has the service required by [section 7314 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s7314);

(2) is qualified professionally as demonstrated by an applicable examination; and

(3) is qualified as to sight, hearing, and physical condition to perform the member’s duties.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 544](/us/stat/97/544); [Pub. L. 104–324, title VII, § 724](/us/pl/104/324/tVII/s724), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3939](/us/stat/110/3939).)*

Section 7313(a) authorizes the Secretary to establish classes of endorsement for qualified members of the engine department on vessels of 100 gross tons or more (except on vessels operating on rivers and lakes (except the Great Lakes)).

Subsection (b) establishes the entry ratings of wiper and coal passer, but specifically excludes them as qualified members of the engine department.

Subsection (c) establishes the minimum qualifications individuals must meet in order to have their documents endorsed as a qualified member of engine department.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 7313 | 46:672(g) |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–324](/us/pl/104/324) inserted “as measured under [section 14502 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14502), or an alternate tonnage measured under [section 14302 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14302) as prescribed by the Secretary under [section 14104 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14104)” after “100 gross tons”.
