---
title: "§ 5104. Manpower requirements plan"
identifier: "USC-T14-S5104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section5104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–120, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/114/120/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 30](/us/stat/130/30), § 2904; renumbered § 5104 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 122(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4239](/us/stat/132/4239), 4240.)"
---
# § 5104. Manpower requirements plan

##### § 5104. Manpower requirements plan

(a) In General.— On the date on which the President submits to the Congress a budget for fiscal year 2017 under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105), on the date on which the President submits to the Congress a budget for fiscal year 2019 under such section, and every 4 years thereafter, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a manpower requirements plan.

(b) Scope.— A manpower requirements plan submitted under subsection (a) shall include for each mission of the Coast Guard—

(1) an assessment of all projected mission requirements for the upcoming fiscal year and for each of the 3 fiscal years thereafter;

(2) the number of active duty, reserve, and civilian personnel assigned or available to fulfill such mission requirements—

(A) currently; and

(B) as projected for the upcoming fiscal year and each of the 3 fiscal years thereafter;

(3) the number of active duty, reserve, and civilian personnel required to fulfill such mission requirements—

(A) currently; and

(B) as projected for the upcoming fiscal year and each of the 3 fiscal years thereafter;

(4) an identification of any capability gaps between mission requirements and mission performance caused by deficiencies in the numbers of personnel available—

(A) currently; and

(B) as projected for the upcoming fiscal year and each of the 3 fiscal years thereafter; and

(5) an identification of the actions the Commandant will take to address capability gaps identified under paragraph (4).

(c) Consideration.— In composing a manpower requirements plan for submission under subsection (a), the Commandant shall consider—

(1) the marine safety strategy required under [section 2116 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s2116);

(2) information on the adequacy of the acquisition workforce included in the most recent report under [section 5103 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s5103); and

(3) any other Federal strategic planning effort the Commandant considers appropriate.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–120, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/114/120/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 30](/us/stat/130/30), § 2904; renumbered § 5104 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 122(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4239](/us/stat/132/4239), 4240.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 122(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s122/b), renumbered [section 2904 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2904) as this section.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 5103” for “section 2903”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Additional Submissions

Commandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives each plan required under this section, see [section 101(f) of Pub. L. 114–120](/us/pl/114/120/s101/f), set out as a note under [section 5110 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s5110).
