---
title: "§ 14301. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T42-S14301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section14301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–142, § 2](/us/pl/104/142/s2), May 13, 1996, [110 Stat. 1329](/us/stat/110/1329).)"
---
# § 14301. Findings

##### § 14301. Findings

(1) it is in the public interest to—

(A) phase out the use of mercury in batteries and provide for the efficient and cost-effective collection and recycling or proper disposal of used nickel cadmium batteries, small sealed lead-acid batteries, and other regulated batteries; and

(B) educate the public concerning the collection, recycling, and proper disposal of such batteries;

(2) uniform national labeling requirements for regulated batteries, rechargeable consumer products, and product packaging will significantly benefit programs for regulated battery collection and recycling or proper disposal; and

(3) it is in the public interest to encourage persons who use rechargeable batteries to participate in collection for recycling of used nickel-cadmium, small sealed lead-acid, and other regulated batteries.

*([Pub. L. 104–142, § 2](/us/pl/104/142/s2), May 13, 1996, [110 Stat. 1329](/us/stat/110/1329).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 104–142, § 1](/us/pl/104/142/s1), May 13, 1996, [110 Stat. 1329](/us/stat/110/1329), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Mercury-Containing and Rechargeable Battery Management Act’.”

[Pub. L. 104–142, title I, § 101](/us/pl/104/142/tI/s101), May 13, 1996, [110 Stat. 1332](/us/stat/110/1332), provided that: “This title [enacting subchapter II of this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Rechargeable Battery Recycling Act’.”

[Pub. L. 104–142, title II, § 201](/us/pl/104/142/tII/s201), May 13, 1996, [110 Stat. 1336](/us/stat/110/1336), provided that: “This title [enacting subchapter III of this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Mercury-Containing Battery Management Act’.”
