---
title: "§ 2111. Personnel: administrators and instructors"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 88–647, title II, § 201(1)](/us/pl/88/647/tII/s201/1), Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1069](/us/stat/78/1069); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1722](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1722)(*l*)(3), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 674](/us/stat/137/674).)"
---
# § 2111. Personnel: administrators and instructors

##### § 2111. Personnel: administrators and instructors

The Secretary of the military department concerned may detail regular or reserve members of an armed force under his jurisdiction (including retired members and members of the Fleet Reserve and Fleet Marine Corps Reserve recalled to active duty with their consent) for instructional and administrative duties at educational institutions where units of the program are maintained. The Secretary of the Air Force may detail members of the Space Force in the same manner as regular and reserve members of the Air Force.

*(Added [Pub. L. 88–647, title II, § 201(1)](/us/pl/88/647/tII/s201/1), Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1069](/us/stat/78/1069); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1722](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1722)(*l*)(3), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 674](/us/stat/137/674).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—[Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) inserted at end “The Secretary of the Air Force may detail members of the Space Force in the same manner as regular and reserve members of the Air Force.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Demonstration Project for Instruction and Support of Army ROTC Units by Army Reserve and National Guard

[Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title V, § 554](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tV/s554), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/110/2527), directed the Secretary of the Army to carry out a demonstration project in order to assess the feasibility and advisability of providing instruction and similar support to units of the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps of the Army through members of the Army Reserve, including members of the Individual Ready Reserve, and members of the Army National Guard, at at least one institution of higher education, and to submit to Congress a report assessing the activities under the project not later than Feb. 1 in each of 1998 and 1999, and provided that the Secretary’s authority to carry out the project would expire three years after Sept. 23, 1996.
