---
title: "§ 3871. Annual report"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3871"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3871"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title III, § 3301](/us/pl/96/70/tIII/s3301), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 497](/us/stat/93/497).)"
---
# § 3871. Annual report

##### § 3871. Annual report

(1) The actions taken by the Government of the Republic of Panama with respect to the living conditions of persons who resided in the Canal Zone before October 1, 1979, and who continue to reside in those areas made available to the United States under the Agreement in Implementation of Article III of the Panama Canal Treaty.

(2) The terms, conditions, and charges for land-use licenses within the canal operating areas specified in the Agreement in Implementation of Article III of the Panama Canal Treaty.

(3) The condition of former employees (and their dependents) of the Panama Canal Company and the Canal Zone Government who reside in the Republic of Panama on or after October 1, 1979.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title III, § 3301](/us/pl/96/70/tIII/s3301), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 497](/us/stat/93/497).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Report to Congress on Condition of Panama Canal and Canal Operations

[Pub. L. 100–203, title V, § 5418](/us/pl/100/203/tV/s5418), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1330–271](/us/stat/101/1330-271), provided that out of the funds authorized to be appropriated by part 1 (§§ 5411 to 5418) of subtitle E of title V of [Pub. L. 100–203](/us/pl/100/203), the Panama Canal Commission was to prepare and submit to Congress a report on the condition of the Panama Canal and potential adverse effects on United States shipping and commerce and report on the effect on canal operations of certain Panamanian Government and military actions.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions vested in President by this section delegated to Secretary of State who shall perform such function in coordination with Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 1–401 of Ex. Ord. No. 12215, May 27, 1980, 45 F.R. 36044, set out as a note under [section 3601 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3601).
