---
title: "§ 9164. Submarine electric transmission cable and equipment safety"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9164"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9164"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–320, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/96/320/tIV/s404), Aug. 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 999](/us/stat/94/999).)"
---
# § 9164. Submarine electric transmission cable and equipment safety

##### § 9164. Submarine electric transmission cable and equipment safety

(a) Standards and regulations The Secretary of Energy, in cooperation with other interested Federal agencies and departments, shall establish and enforce such standards and regulations as may be necessary to assure the safe construction and operation of submarine electric transmission cables and equipment subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Such standards and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, requirements for the use of the safest and best available technology for submarine electric transmission cable shielding, and for the use of automatic switches to shut off electric current in the event of a break in such a cable.

(b) Report to Congress on appropriation and staffing needs The Secretary of Energy, in cooperation with other interested Federal agencies and departments, is authorized and directed to report to the Congress within 60 days after August 3, 1980, on appropriations and staffing needed to monitor submarine electric transmission cables and equipment subject to the jurisdiction of the United States so as to assure that they meet all applicable standards for construction, operation, and maintenance.

*([Pub. L. 96–320, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/96/320/tIV/s404), Aug. 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 999](/us/stat/94/999).)*
