---
title: "§ 591. Purchase of electricity"
identifier: "USC-T40-S591"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section591"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1118](/us/stat/116/1118).)"
---
# § 591. Purchase of electricity

##### § 591. Purchase of electricity

(a) General Limitation on Use of Amounts.— A department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal Government may not use amounts appropriated or made available by any law to purchase electricity in a manner inconsistent with state law governing the provision of electric utility service, including—

(1) state utility commission rulings; and

(2) electric utility franchises or service territories established under state statute, state regulation, or state-approved territorial agreements.

(b) Exceptions.—

(1) Energy savings.— This section does not preclude the head of a federal agency from entering into a contract under section 801 of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 8287](/us/usc/t42/s8287)).

(2) Energy savings for military installations.— This section does not preclude the Secretary of a military department from—

(A) entering into a contract under section 2394 11 See References in Text note below. of title 10; or

(B) purchasing electricity from any provider if the Secretary finds that the utility having the applicable state-approved franchise (or other service authorization) is unwilling or unable to meet unusual standards of service reliability that are necessary for purposes of national defense.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1118](/us/stat/116/1118).)*

In subsection (b)(1), the words “section 801 of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 8287](/us/usc/t42/s8287))” are substituted for “[42 U.S.C. 8287](/us/usc/t42/s8287)” in section 8093 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1988 as the probable intent of Congress.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 591 | 40:490 note. | Pub. L. 100–202, § 101(b) [title VIII, § 8093], Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 1329–79. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2394 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2394), referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(A), was renumbered section 2922a of such title by [Pub. L. 109–364, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2851(b)(2)](/us/pl/109/364/dB/tXXVIII/s2851/b/2), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2494](/us/stat/120/2494).
