---
title: "§ 231. Enforcement of State laws affecting health and education; entry of State employees on Indian lands"
identifier: "USC-T25-S231"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section231"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Feb. 15, 1929, ch. 216](/us/act/1929-02-15/ch216), [45 Stat. 1185](/us/stat/45/1185); [Aug. 9, 1946, ch. 930](/us/act/1946-08-09/ch930), [60 Stat. 962](/us/stat/60/962).)"
---
# § 231. Enforcement of State laws affecting health and education; entry of State employees on Indian lands

##### § 231. Enforcement of State laws affecting health and education; entry of State employees on Indian lands

The Secretary of the Interior, under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, shall permit the agents and employees of any State to enter upon Indian tribal lands, reservations, or allotments therein (1) for the purpose of making inspection of health and educational conditions and enforcing sanitation and quarantine regulations or (2) to enforce the penalties of State compulsory school attendance laws against Indian children, and parents, or other persons in loco parentis except that this subparagraph (2) shall not apply to Indians of any tribe in which a duly constituted governing body exists until such body has adopted a resolution consenting to such application.

*([Feb. 15, 1929, ch. 216](/us/act/1929-02-15/ch216), [45 Stat. 1185](/us/stat/45/1185); [Aug. 9, 1946, ch. 930](/us/act/1946-08-09/ch930), [60 Stat. 962](/us/stat/60/962).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1946—Act Aug. 9, 1946, permitted proper State officers to invoke penalties of State compulsory school attendance against Indian children, their parents, or other persons in loco parentis.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
