---
title: "§ 3076. Native working group"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3076"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3076"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–258, § 8](/us/pl/117/258/s8), Dec. 21, 2022, [136 Stat. 2384](/us/stat/136/2384).)"
---
# § 3076. Native working group

##### § 3076. Native working group

(a) In general The Secretary shall convene a Native working group consisting of not fewer than 12 representatives of Indian Tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations with relevant expertise, who shall be nominated by Indian Tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations, to advise the Federal Government in accordance with this section.

(b) Recommendations The Native working group convened under subsection (a) may provide recommendations regarding—

(1) the voluntary return of tangible cultural heritage by collectors, dealers, and other individuals and non-Federal organizations that hold such tangible cultural heritage; and

(2) the elimination of illegal commerce of cultural items and archaeological resources in the United States and foreign markets.

(c) Requests The Native working group convened under subsection (a) may make formal requests to initiate certain agency actions, including requests that—

(1) the Department of Justice initiate judicial proceedings domestically or abroad to aid in the repatriation cultural items and archaeological resources; and

(2) the Department of State initiate dialogue through diplomatic channels to aid in that repatriation.

(d) Agency and committee assistance

(1) In general On request by the Native working group convened under subsection (a), the agencies and committees described in paragraph (2) shall make efforts to provide information and assistance to the Native working group.

(2) Description of agencies and committees The agencies and committees referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:

(A) The Department of the Interior.

(B) The Department of Justice.

(C) The Department of Homeland Security.

(D) The Department of State.

(E) The review committee established under [section 3006(a) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3006/a).

(F) The Cultural Heritage Coordinating Committee established pursuant to section 2 of the Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act ([Public Law 114–151](/us/pl/114/151); [19 U.S.C. 2601](/us/usc/t19/s2601) note).

(G) Any other relevant Federal agency, committee, or working group.

(e) Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) 11 See References in Text note below. shall not apply to the Native working group convened under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 117–258, § 8](/us/pl/117/258/s8), Dec. 21, 2022, [136 Stat. 2384](/us/stat/136/2384).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (e), is [Pub. L. 92–463](/us/pl/92/463), Oct. 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 770](/us/stat/86/770), which was set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and was substantially repealed and restated in chapter 10 (§ 1001 et seq.) of Title 5 by [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286), §§ 3(a), 7, Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4197](/us/stat/136/4197), 4361. For disposition of sections of the Act into chapter 10 of Title 5, see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s101).
