---
title: "§ 50401. United States Committee on the Marine Transportation System"
identifier: "USC-T46-S50401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section50401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–213, title III, § 310(a)](/us/pl/112/213/tIII/s310/a), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1567](/us/stat/126/1567), § 55502; renumbered § 55501, [Pub. L. 113–281, title III, § 301(2)](/us/pl/113/281/tIII/s301/2), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3042](/us/stat/128/3042); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8315, Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4699](/us/stat/134/4699); renumbered § 50401 and amended, [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXV, § 3512"
---
# § 50401. United States Committee on the Marine Transportation System

##### § 50401. United States Committee on the Marine Transportation System

(a) Establishment.— There is established a United States Committee on the Marine Transportation System (in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(b) Purpose.— The Committee shall serve as a Federal interagency coordinating committee for the purpose of—

(1) assessing the adequacy of the marine transportation system (including ports, waterways, channels, and their intermodal connections);

(2) promoting the integration of the marine transportation system with other modes of transportation and other uses of the marine environment; and

(3) coordinating, improving the coordination of, and making recommendations with regard to Federal policies that impact the marine transportation system.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The Committee shall consist of—

(A) the Secretary of Transportation;

(B) the Secretary of Defense;

(C) the Secretary of Homeland Security;

(D) the Secretary of Commerce;

(E) the Secretary of the Treasury;

(F) the Secretary of State;

(G) the Secretary of the Interior;

(H) the Secretary of Agriculture;

(I) the Attorney General;

(J) the Secretary of Labor;

(K) the Secretary of Energy;

(L) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;

(M) the Chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission;

(N) the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and

(O) the head of any other Federal agency who a majority of the voting members of the Committee determines can further the purpose and activities of the Committee.

(2) Nonvoting members.— The Committee may include as many nonvoting members as a majority of the voting members of the Committee determines is appropriate to further the purpose and activities of the Committee.

(d) Support.—

(1) Coordinating board.—

(A) In general.— There is hereby established, within the Committee, a Coordinating Board. Each member of the Committee may select a senior level representative to serve on such Board. The Board shall assist the Committee in carrying out its purpose and activities.

(B) Chair.— There shall be a Chair of the Coordinating Board. The Chair of the Coordinating Board shall rotate each year among the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Commerce. The order of rotation shall be determined by a majority of the voting members of the Committee.

(2) Executive director.— The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Commerce, shall appoint an Executive Director of the Committee.

(3) Transfers.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the head of a Federal department or agency who is a member of the Committee may—

(A) provide, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, facilities, equipment, services, personnel, and other support services to carry out the activities of the Committee; and

(B) transfer funds to another Federal department or agency in order to carry out the activities of the Committee.

(e) Marine Transportation System Assessment and Strategy.— Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act and every 5 years thereafter, the Committee shall provide to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that includes—

(1) steps taken to implement actions recommended in the document titled “National Strategy for the Marine Transportation System: A Framework for Action” and dated July 2008;

(2) a conditions and performance analysis of the marine transportation system;

(3) a discussion of the challenges the marine transportation system faces in meeting user demand, including estimates of investment levels required to ensure system infrastructure meets such demand;

(4) a plan, with recommended actions, for improving the marine transportation system to meet current and future challenges;

(5) steps taken to implement actions recommended in previous reports required under this subsection; and

(6) a compendium of the Federal programs engaged in the maritime transportation system.

(f) Consultation.— In carrying out its purpose and activities, the Committee may consult with marine transportation system-related advisory committees, interested parties, and the public.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–213, title III, § 310(a)](/us/pl/112/213/tIII/s310/a), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1567](/us/stat/126/1567), § 55502; renumbered § 55501, [Pub. L. 113–281, title III, § 301(2)](/us/pl/113/281/tIII/s301/2), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3042](/us/stat/128/3042); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8315, Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4699](/us/stat/134/4699); renumbered § 50401 and amended, [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXV, § 3512(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXV/s3512/a/3), (4), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/135/2239).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec. (e), probably means the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 112–213](/us/pl/112/213), which enacted this section and was approved Dec. 20, 2012.

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 117–81, § 3512(a)(4)](/us/pl/117/81/s3512/a/4), amended section catchline generally, substituting “United States Committee on the Marine Transportation System” for “United States Committee on the Marine Transportation System”.

[Pub. L. 117–81, § 3512(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/81/s3512/a/3), renumbered [section 55501 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s55501) as this section.

Subsec. (e)(2). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8315(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s8315/1), substituted “a conditions and performance analysis” for “an assessment of the condition”.

Subsec. (e)(6). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8315(2)](/us/pl/116/283/s8315/2)–(4), added par. (6).

2014—[Pub. L. 113–281](/us/pl/113/281) renumbered [section 55502 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s55502) as this section.
