---
title: "§ 57522. Books and records, balance sheets, and inspection and auditing"
identifier: "USC-T46-S57522"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section57522"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 114–120, title III, § 313(c)(1)](/us/pl/114/120/tIII/s313/c/1), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 58](/us/stat/130/58).)"
---
# § 57522. Books and records, balance sheets, and inspection and auditing

##### § 57522. Books and records, balance sheets, and inspection and auditing

Every contract executed by the Secretary of Transportation under this chapter shall contain provisions requiring (1) that, the contractor and every affiliate, domestic agent, subsidiary, or holding company connected with, or directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, the contractor, to keep its books, records, and accounts, relating to the maintenance, operation, and servicing of the vessels, services, routes, and lines covered by the contract, in such form and under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Transportation; (2) that the contractor and every affiliate, domestic agent, subsidiary, or holding company connected with, or directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, the contractor, to file, upon notice from the Secretary of Transportation, balance sheets, profit and loss statements, and such other statements of financial operations, special report, memoranda of any facts and transactions, which in the opinion of the Secretary of Transportation affect the financial results in, the performance of, or transactions or operations under, such contract; (3) that the Secretary of Transportation shall be authorized to examine and audit the books, records, and accounts of all persons referred to in this section whenever he may deem it necessary or desirable; and (4) that upon the willful failure or refusal of any person described in this section to comply with the contract provisions required by this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall have the right to rescind the contract, and upon such rescission, the United States shall be relieved of all further liability on such contract.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 114–120, title III, § 313(c)(1)](/us/pl/114/120/tIII/s313/c/1), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 58](/us/stat/130/58).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section consists of text of [act June 29, 1936, ch. 858, title VIII, § 801](/us/act/1936-06-29/ch858/tVIII/s801), [49 Stat. 2011](/us/stat/49/2011), as amended by [Pub. L. 97–31, § 12(119)](/us/pl/97/31/s12/119), Aug. 6, 1981, [95 Stat. 164](/us/stat/95/164). Section 801 of [act June 29, 1936, ch. 858](/us/act/1936-06-29/ch858), which was formerly set out as a note under [section 53101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s53101), was transferred to this section by [Pub. L. 114–120, title III, § 313(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/120/tIII/s313/c/1/A), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 58](/us/stat/130/58).

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–120, § 313(c)(1)(B)(i)](/us/pl/114/120/s313/c/1/B/i), inserted “Books and records, balance sheets, and inspection and auditing” in section catchline.

[Pub. L. 114–120, § 313(c)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/114/120/s313/c/1/B/ii), which directed substitution of “this chapter” for “the provision of title VI or VII of this Act”, was executed by making the substitution for “the provisions of title VI or VII of this Act” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

[Pub. L. 114–120, § 313(c)(1)(B)(iii)](/us/pl/114/120/s313/c/1/B/iii), struck out “: *Provided*, That the provisions of this paragraph shall not require the duplication of books, records, and accounts required to be kept in some other form by the Interstate Commerce Commission” after “prescribed by the Secretary of Transportation”.
