---
title: "§ 7635. Report on treatment activities by relevant executive branch agencies"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7635"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7635"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–25, title III, § 305](/us/pl/108/25/tIII/s305), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 739](/us/stat/117/739).)"
---
# § 7635. Report on treatment activities by relevant executive branch agencies

##### § 7635. Report on treatment activities by relevant executive branch agencies

(a) In general Not later than 15 months after May 27, 2003, the President shall submit to appropriate congressional committees a report on the programs and activities of the relevant executive branch agencies that are directed to the treatment of individuals in foreign countries infected with HIV or living with AIDS.

(b) Report elements The report shall include—

(1) a description of the activities of relevant executive branch agencies with respect to—

(A) the treatment of opportunistic infections;

(B) the use of antiretrovirals;

(C) the status of research into successful treatment protocols for individuals in the developing world;

(D) technical assistance and training of local health care workers (in countries affected by the pandemic) to administer antiretrovirals, manage side effects, and monitor patients’ viral loads and immune status;

(E) the status of strategies to promote sustainability of HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals (including antiretrovirals) and the effects of drug resistance on HIV/AIDS patients; and

(F) the status of appropriate law enforcement officials working to ensure that HIV/AIDS pharmaceutical treatment is not diminished through illegal counterfeiting and black market sales of such pharmaceuticals;

(2) information on existing pilot projects, including a discussion of why a given population was selected, the number of people treated, the cost of treatment, the mechanisms established to ensure that treatment is being administered effectively and safely, and plans for scaling up pilot projects (including projected timelines and required resources); and

(3) an explanation of how those activities relate to efforts to prevent the transmission of the HIV infection.

*([Pub. L. 108–25, title III, § 305](/us/pl/108/25/tIII/s305), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 739](/us/stat/117/739).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381), and Memorandum of President of Feb. 23, 2004, 69 F.R. 9509, set out as a note under [section 7611 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7611).
