---
title: "§ 2076. Guaranteed purchase prices"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2076"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2076"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 56, as added [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 931](/us/stat/68/931); amended [Pub. L. 88–489, § 11](/us/pl/88/489/s11), Aug. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 605](/us/stat/78/605); [Pub. L. 91–560, § 2](/us/pl/91/560/s2), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1472](/us/stat/84/1472); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8)](/us/pl/102/486/tIX/s902/a/8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2944](/us/stat/106/294"
---
# § 2076. Guaranteed purchase prices

##### § 2076. Guaranteed purchase prices

The Commission shall establish guaranteed purchase prices for plutonium produced in a nuclear reactor by a person licensed under [section 2134 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2134) and delivered to the Commission before January 1, 1971. The Commission shall also establish for such periods of time as it may deem necessary, but not to exceed ten years as to any such period, guaranteed purchase prices for uranium enriched in the isotope 233 produced in a nuclear reactor by a person licensed under section 2133 or section 2134 and delivered to the Commission within the period of the guarantee. Guaranteed purchase prices established under the authority of this section shall not exceed the Commission’s determination of the estimated value of plutonium or uranium enriched in the isotope 233 as fuel in nuclear reactors, and such prices shall be established on a nondiscriminatory basis: *Provided*, That the Commission is authorized to establish such guaranteed purchase prices only for such plutonium or uranium enriched in the isotope 233 as the Commission shall determine is produced through the use of special nuclear material which was leased or sold by the Commission pursuant to [section 2073 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2073).

*([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 56, as added [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 931](/us/stat/68/931); amended [Pub. L. 88–489, § 11](/us/pl/88/489/s11), Aug. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 605](/us/stat/78/605); [Pub. L. 91–560, § 2](/us/pl/91/560/s2), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1472](/us/stat/84/1472); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8)](/us/pl/102/486/tIX/s902/a/8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2944](/us/stat/106/2944).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1970—[Pub. L. 91–560](/us/pl/91/560) extended the power of the Commission to establish guaranteed purchase prices for uranium produced by persons licensed under [section 2133 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2133).

1964—[Pub. L. 88–489](/us/pl/88/489) substituted provisions which directed the Commission to establish guaranteed purchase prices for plutonium produced by a person licensed under [section 2134 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2134) and delivered to the Commission prior to Jan. 1, 1971, and for uranium enriched in the isotope 233, for such periods of time as it deems necessary, but not exceeding ten years as to any such period, if produced by a person licensed under said section 2134, and delivered within the period of the guarantee, provided that guaranteed prices established under this section shall not exceed the Commission’s estimated value of enriched plutonium or uranium as fuel in reactors, and shall be on a nondiscriminatory basis, and authorized such guaranteed prices only for such enriched plutonium or uranium as is produced through use of material leased or sold pursuant to [section 2073 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2073), for provisions requiring the Commission to determine the fair price of special nuclear material by considering the value of the material for its intended use by the United States, and by giving such weight to the cost of production as it found to be equitable, providing that such price was to apply to all licensed producers of the same material, and permitting the Commission to establish guaranteed fair prices for all such material delivered to the Commission for such time as it deemed necessary, but not exceeding seven years.
