---
title: "§ 1864. Notification of changes to retention of call detail record policies"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1864"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1864"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–113, div. M, title III, § 307](/us/pl/114/113/dM/tIII/s307), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2916](/us/stat/129/2916).)"
---
# § 1864. Notification of changes to retention of call detail record policies

##### § 1864. Notification of changes to retention of call detail record policies

(a) Requirement to retain

(1) In general Not later than 15 days after learning that an electronic communication service provider that generates call detail records in the ordinary course of business has changed the policy of the provider on the retention of such call detail records to result in a retention period of less than 18 months, the Director of National Intelligence shall notify, in writing, the congressional intelligence committees of such change.

(2) Report Not later than 30 days after December 18, 2015, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report identifying each electronic communication service provider that has, as of the date of the report, a policy to retain call detail records for a period of 18 months or less.

(b) Definitions In this section:

(1) Call detail record The term “call detail record” has the meaning given that term in section 1861(k) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(2) Electronic communication service provider The term “electronic communication service provider” has the meaning given that term in [section 1881(b)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1881/b/4).

*([Pub. L. 114–113, div. M, title III, § 307](/us/pl/114/113/dM/tIII/s307), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2916](/us/stat/129/2916).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1861(k) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1861/k), referred to in subsec. (b)(1), means [section 1861(k) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1861/k) prior to the amendment of section 1861 by [Pub. L. 109–177, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/109/177/tI/s102/b), Mar. 9, 2006, [120 Stat. 195](/us/stat/120/195), set out as an Effective Date of 2006 Amendment note under [section 1805 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1805), which amended [section 1861 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1861), effective Mar. 15, 2020, so that such section read as it read on Oct. 25, 2001, with certain exceptions.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, and not as part of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “congressional intelligence committees” as used in this section, see [section 2 of div. M of Pub. L. 114–113](/us/pl/114/113/dM/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
