---
title: "§ 4672. Membership; term"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4672"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4672"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title VII, § 732](/us/pl/116/113/tVII/s732), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 87](/us/stat/134/87).)"
---
# § 4672. Membership; term

##### § 4672. Membership; term

(a) Membership The Board shall be composed of 12 members who shall be appointed as follows:

(1) Four members to be appointed by the Labor Advisory Committee established under [section 2155(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2155/c/1) (or successor advisory committee).

(2) Two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the Chair of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.

(3) Two members appointed by the president pro tempore of the Senate from among individuals recommended by the majority leader of the Senate and in consultation with the Chair of the Committee on Finance of the Senate.

(4) Two members appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the Ranking Member of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.

(5) Two members appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate from among individuals recommended by the minority leader of the Senate and in consultation with the Ranking Member of the Committee on Finance of the Senate.

(b) Term Except as provided in subsection (c), members of the Board shall serve for a term of 6 years.

(c) Extension of term If the Board determines, at the end of the 6-year period beginning on the date of the appointment of the last member appointed in accordance with subsection (a), that Mexico is not fully in compliance with its labor obligations, a majority of the members of the Board may determine to extend its term for 4 additional years. A new Board shall be appointed in accordance with subsection (a) and shall serve for a single term of 4 years.

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title VII, § 732](/us/pl/116/113/tVII/s732), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 87](/us/stat/134/87).)*
