---
title: "§ 2021h. Alternative disposal methods"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2021h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2021h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–573, § 8](/us/pl/96/573/s8), as added [Pub. L. 99–240, title I, § 102](/us/pl/99/240/tI/s102), Jan. 15, 1986, [99 Stat. 1858](/us/stat/99/1858).)"
---
# § 2021h. Alternative disposal methods

##### § 2021h. Alternative disposal methods

(a) Not later than 12 months after January 15, 1986, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall, in consultation with the States and other interested persons, identify methods for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste other than shallow land burial, and establish and publish technical guidance regarding licensing of facilities that use such methods.

(b) Not later than 24 months after January 15, 1986, the Commission shall, in consultation with the States and other interested persons, identify and publish all relevant technical information regarding the methods identified pursuant to subsection (a) that a State or compact must provide to the Commission in order to pursue such methods, together with the technical requirements that such facilities must meet, in the judgment of the Commission, if pursued as an alternative to shallow land burial. Such technical information and requirements shall include, but need not be limited to, site suitability, site design, facility operation, disposal site closure, and environmental monitoring, as necessary to meet the performance objectives established by the Commission for a licensed low-level radioactive waste disposal facility. The Commission shall specify and publish such requirements in a manner and form deemed appropriate by the Commission.

*([Pub. L. 96–573, § 8](/us/pl/96/573/s8), as added [Pub. L. 99–240, title I, § 102](/us/pl/99/240/tI/s102), Jan. 15, 1986, [99 Stat. 1858](/us/stat/99/1858).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.
