---
title: "§ 404. High-visibility enforcement program"
identifier: "USC-T23-S404"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-09-29"
last_updated: "2025-09-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title23-section404"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "23"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 89–564, title I, § 101](/us/pl/89/564/tI/s101), Sept. 9, 1966, [80 Stat. 733](/us/stat/80/733); amended [Pub. L. 90–150](/us/pl/90/150), Nov. 24, 1967, [81 Stat. 507](/us/stat/81/507); [Pub. L. 93–87, title II, § 223](/us/pl/93/87/tII/s223), Aug. 13, 1973, [87 Stat. 292](/us/stat/87/292); [Pub. L. 94–280, title II, § 209](/us/pl/94/280/tII/s209), May 5, 1976, [90 Stat. 455](/us/stat/90/455); [Pub. L. 109–59, title II, § 2019](/us/pl/109/59/tII/s2019), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 15"
---
# § 404. High-visibility enforcement program

##### § 404. High-visibility enforcement program

(a) In General.— The Secretary shall establish and administer a program under which not less than 3 campaigns will be carried out in each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

(b) Purpose.— The purpose of each campaign carried out under this section shall be to achieve outcomes related to not less than 1 of the following objectives:

(1) Reduce alcohol-impaired or drug-impaired operation of motor vehicles.

(2) Increase use of seatbelts by occupants of motor vehicles.

(c) Advertising.— The Secretary may use, or authorize the use of, funds available to carry out this section to pay for the development, production, and use of broadcast and print media advertising and Internet-based outreach in carrying out campaigns under this section. In allocating such funds, consideration shall be given to advertising directed at non-English speaking populations, including those who listen to, read, or watch nontraditional media.

(d) Coordination With States.— The Secretary shall coordinate with States in carrying out the campaigns under this section, including advertising funded under subsection (c), with consideration given to—

(1) relying on States to provide law enforcement resources for the campaigns out of funding made available under sections 402 and 405; and

(2) providing, out of National Highway Traffic Safety Administration resources, most of the means necessary for national advertising and education efforts associated with the campaigns.

(e) Use of Funds.— Funds made available to carry out this section may be used only for activities described in subsection (c).

(f) Definitions.— In this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) Campaign.— The term “campaign” means a high-visibility traffic safety law enforcement campaign.

(2) State.— The term “State” has the meaning given that term in section 401.

*(Added [Pub. L. 89–564, title I, § 101](/us/pl/89/564/tI/s101), Sept. 9, 1966, [80 Stat. 733](/us/stat/80/733); amended [Pub. L. 90–150](/us/pl/90/150), Nov. 24, 1967, [81 Stat. 507](/us/stat/81/507); [Pub. L. 93–87, title II, § 223](/us/pl/93/87/tII/s223), Aug. 13, 1973, [87 Stat. 292](/us/stat/87/292); [Pub. L. 94–280, title II, § 209](/us/pl/94/280/tII/s209), May 5, 1976, [90 Stat. 455](/us/stat/90/455); [Pub. L. 109–59, title II, § 2019](/us/pl/109/59/tII/s2019), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1543](/us/stat/119/1543); [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title IV, § 4004(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tIV/s4004/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1500](/us/stat/129/1500); [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title IV, § 24104](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tIV/s24104), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 795](/us/stat/135/795).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) substituted “each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026” for “each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020”.

2015—[Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94) amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to the high-visibility enforcement program for provisions relating to the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee.

2005—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–59](/us/pl/109/59) substituted “Transportation” for “Commerce”.

1976—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 94–280](/us/pl/94/280) substituted provision for selection by the Secretary of the Chairman of the Committee from among the Committee members for prior provision making the Secretary or an officer of the Department appointed by him the Chairman of the Committee.

1973—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 93–87](/us/pl/93/87) added the National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator to the membership of the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee.

1967—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 90–150, § 1(1)](/us/pl/90/150/s1/1), substituted “Department of Transportation” for “Department of Commerce”, increased number of Committee appointees from twenty-nine to thirty-five, and provided for selection of members from representatives of national organizations of passenger car, bus, and truck owners.

Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 90–150, § 1(2)](/us/pl/90/150/s1/2), substituted provisions for expirations of term of office of initial appointees one, two, and three years after date of appointment for twelve, twelve, and eleven members, respectively, for former provisions for such expiration one, two, and three years following enactment date of Sept. 9, 1966, for ten, ten, and nine members, respectively, and prohibited reappointment within one year after end of preceding term of member serving a three-year term of office.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94) effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as a note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.
