---
title: "§ 10401. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XIII, § 1321](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXIII/s1321), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 501](/us/stat/137/501).)"
---
# § 10401. Definitions

##### § 10401. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees Except as otherwise provided, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

(2) AUKUS partnership

(A) In general The term “AUKUS partnership” means the enhanced trilateral security partnership between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States announced in September 2021.

(B) Pillars The AUKUS partnership includes the following two pillars:

(i) Pillar One is focused on developing a pathway for Australia to acquire conventionally armed, nuclear-powered submarines.

(ii) Pillar Two is focused on enhancing trilateral collaboration on advanced defense capabilities, including hypersonic and counter hypersonic capabilities, quantum technologies, undersea technologies, and artificial intelligence.

(3) International Traffic in Arms Regulations The term “International Traffic in Arms Regulations” means subchapter M of chapter I of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XIII, § 1321](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXIII/s1321), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 501](/us/stat/137/501).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XIII, § 1351](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXIII/s1351), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 514](/us/stat/137/514), provided that: “This part [part 3 (§§ 1351–1354) of subtitle B of title XIII of div. A of [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31), enacting subchapter III of this title and amending [section 8680 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s8680), Armed Forces] may be cited as the ‘AUKUS Submarine Transfer Authorization Act’.”
