---
title: "§ 4230. Program requirements"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4230"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4230"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 811](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s811), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2887](/us/stat/114/2887), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2981](/us/stat/114/2981).)"
---
# § 4230. Program requirements

##### § 4230. Program requirements

(a) Rents

(1) Establishment Subject to paragraph (2), as a condition to receiving grant amounts under this subchapter, the Director shall develop written policies governing rents and homebuyer payments charged for dwelling units assisted under this subchapter, including methods by which such rents and homebuyer payments are determined.

(2) Maximum rent In the case of any low-income family residing in a dwelling unit assisted with grant amounts under this subchapter, the monthly rent or homebuyer payment (as applicable) for that dwelling unit may not exceed 30 percent of the monthly adjusted income of that family.

(b) Maintenance and efficient operation

(1) In general The Director shall, using amounts of any grants received under this subchapter, reserve and use for operating under [section 4229 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4229) such amounts as may be necessary to provide for the continued maintenance and efficient operation of such housing.

(2) Disposal of certain housing This subsection may not be construed to prevent the Director, or any entity funded by the Department, from demolishing or disposing of housing, pursuant to regulations established by the Secretary.

(c) Insurance coverage As a condition to receiving grant amounts under this subchapter, the Director shall require adequate insurance coverage for housing units that are owned or operated or assisted with grant amounts provided under this subchapter.

(d) Eligibility for admission As a condition to receiving grant amounts under this subchapter, the Director shall develop written policies governing the eligibility, admission, and occupancy of families for housing assisted with grant amounts provided under this subchapter.

(e) Management and maintenance As a condition to receiving grant amounts under this subchapter, the Director shall develop policies governing the management and maintenance of housing assisted with grant amounts under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 811](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s811), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2887](/us/stat/114/2887), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2981](/us/stat/114/2981).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 106–568, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/s203), and [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513), enacted identical sections 811 of [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330). This section is based on the text of [section 811 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s811), as added by [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513).
