---
title: "§ 377. Revision of United States Pharmacopoeia; development of analysis and mechanical and physical tests"
identifier: "USC-T21-S377"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section377"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([July 12, 1943, ch. 221](/us/act/1943-07-12/ch221), title II, [57 Stat. 500](/us/stat/57/500); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, § 5, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631).)"
---
# § 377. Revision of United States Pharmacopoeia; development of analysis and mechanical and physical tests

##### § 377. Revision of United States Pharmacopoeia; development of analysis and mechanical and physical tests

The Secretary, in carrying into effect the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 301](/us/usc/t21/s301) et seq.], is authorized on and after July 12, 1943, to cooperate with associations and scientific societies in the revision of the United States Pharmacopoeia and in the development of methods of analysis and mechanical and physical tests necessary to carry out the work of the Food and Drug Administration.

*([July 12, 1943, ch. 221](/us/act/1943-07-12/ch221), title II, [57 Stat. 500](/us/stat/57/500); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, § 5, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, referred to in text, is [act June 25, 1938, ch. 675](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675), [52 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/52/1040), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 301 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Labor-Federal Security Appropriation Act, 1944, and not as part of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of Federal Security Administrator to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare [now Health and Human Services], and of Food and Drug Administration in the Department of Agriculture to Federal Security Agency, see notes set out under [section 321 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s321).
