---
title: "§ 300d–18. Determination of amount of allotment"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300d–18"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300d–18"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XII, § 1218, as added [Pub. L. 101–590, § 3](/us/pl/101/590/s3), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2924](/us/stat/104/2924).)"
---
# § 300d–18. Determination of amount of allotment

##### § 300d–18. Determination of amount of allotment

(a) Minimum allotment Subject to the extent of amounts made available in appropriations Acts, the amount of an allotment under [section 300d–11(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/a) for a State for a fiscal year shall be the greater of—

(1) the amount determined under subsection (b)(1); and

(2) $250,000 in the case of each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and $50,000 in the case of each of the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(b) Determination under formula

(1) In general The amount referred to in subsection (a)(1) for a State for a fiscal year is the sum of—

(A) an amount determined under paragraph (2); and

(B) an amount determined under paragraph (3).

(2) Amount relating to population The amount referred to in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) for a State for a fiscal year is the product of—

(A) an amount equal to 80 percent of the amounts appropriated under [section 300d–32(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–32/a) for the fiscal year and available for allotment under [section 300d–11(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/a); and

(B) a percentage equal to the quotient of—

(i) an amount equal to the population of the State; divided by

(ii) an amount equal to the population of all States.

(3) Amount relating to square mileage The amount referred to in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) for a State for a fiscal year is the product of—

(A) an amount equal to 20 percent of the amounts appropriated under [section 300d–32(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–32/a) for the fiscal year and available for allotment under [section 300d–11(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/a); and

(B) a percentage equal to the quotient of—

(i) an amount equal to the lesser of 266,807 and the amount of the square mileage of the State; divided by

(ii) an amount equal to the sum of the respective amounts determined for the States under clause (i).

(c) Disposition of certain funds appropriated for allotments

(1) In general Amounts described in paragraph (2) shall, in accordance with paragraph (3), be allotted by the Secretary to States receiving payments under [section 300d–11(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/a) for the fiscal year (other than any State referred to in paragraph (2)(C)).

(2) Type of amounts The amounts referred to in paragraph (1) are any amounts made available pursuant to 300d–32(b)(3) of this title that are not paid under [section 300d–11(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/a) to a State as a result of—

(A) the failure of the State to submit an application under [section 300d–17 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–17);

(B) the failure, in the determination of the Secretary, of the State to prepare within a reasonable period of time such application in compliance with such section; or

(C) the State informing the Secretary that the State does not intend to expend the full amount of the allotment made for the State.

(3) Amount The amount of an allotment under paragraph (1) for a State for a fiscal year shall be an amount equal to the product of—

(A) an amount equal to the amount described in paragraph (2) for the fiscal year involved; and

(B) the percentage determined under subsection (b)(2) for the State.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XII, § 1218, as added [Pub. L. 101–590, § 3](/us/pl/101/590/s3), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2924](/us/stat/104/2924).)*
