---
title: "§ 1788. Transplant procedures with live donors and related services"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1788"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1788"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title I, § 153(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tI/s153/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1437](/us/stat/132/1437); amended [Pub. L. 115–251, title II, § 211(a)(10)](/us/pl/115/251/tII/s211/a/10), Sept. 29, 2018, [132 Stat. 3175](/us/stat/132/3175).)"
---
# § 1788. Transplant procedures with live donors and related services

##### § 1788. Transplant procedures with live donors and related services

(a) In General.— Subject to subsections (b) and (c), in a case in which a veteran is eligible for a transplant procedure from the Department, the Secretary may provide for an operation on a live donor to carry out such procedure for such veteran, notwithstanding that the live donor may not be eligible for health care from the Department.

(b) Other Services.— Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purpose, the Secretary shall furnish to a live donor any care or services before and after conducting the transplant procedure under subsection (a) that may be required in connection with such procedure.

(c) Use of Non-Department Facilities.— In carrying out this section, the Secretary may provide for the operation described in subsection (a) on a live donor and furnish to the live donor the care and services described in subsection (b) at a non-Department facility pursuant to an agreement entered into by the Secretary under this title. The live donor shall be deemed to be an individual eligible for hospital care and medical services at a non-Department facility pursuant to such an agreement solely for the purposes of receiving such operation, care, and services at the non-Department facility.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title I, § 153(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tI/s153/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1437](/us/stat/132/1437); amended [Pub. L. 115–251, title II, § 211(a)(10)](/us/pl/115/251/tII/s211/a/10), Sept. 29, 2018, [132 Stat. 3175](/us/stat/132/3175).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–251](/us/pl/115/251) substituted “this title” for “this chapter”.
