---
title: "§ 2902. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2902"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2902"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XVIII, § 1802](/us/pl/110/53/tXVIII/s1802), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 491](/us/stat/121/491).)"
---
# § 2902. Definitions

##### § 2902. Definitions

(1) The terms “prevention of weapons of mass destruction proliferation and terrorism” and “prevention of WMD proliferation and terrorism” include activities under—

(A) the programs specified in section 1501(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 ([Public Law 104–201](/us/pl/104/201); [110 Stat. 2731](/us/stat/110/2731); [50 U.S.C. 2362](/us/usc/t50/s2362) note); 11 See References in Text note below.

(B) the programs for which appropriations are authorized by section 3101(a)(2) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 ([Public Law 107–314](/us/pl/107/314); [116 Stat. 2729](/us/stat/116/2729));

(C) programs authorized by [section 5854 of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s5854) and programs authorized by [section 5902 of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s5902); and

(D) a program of any agency of the Federal Government having a purpose similar to that of any of the programs identified in subparagraphs (A) through (C), as designated by the United States Coordinator for the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism and the head of the agency.

(2) The terms “weapons of mass destruction” and “WMD” mean chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons, and chemical, biological, and nuclear materials used in the manufacture of such weapons.

(3) The term “items of proliferation concern” means—

(A) equipment, materials, or technology listed in—

(i) the Trigger List of the Guidelines for Nuclear Transfers of the Nuclear Suppliers Group;

(ii) the Annex of the Guidelines for Transfers of Nuclear-Related Dual-Use Equipment, Materials, Software, and Related Technology of the Nuclear Suppliers Group; or

(iii) any of the Common Control Lists of the Australia Group; and

(B) any other sensitive items.

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XVIII, § 1802](/us/pl/110/53/tXVIII/s1802), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 491](/us/stat/121/491).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title XVIII of [Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53), which enacted this chapter, amended [section 3021 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3021) and sections 5952 and 5963 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and amended provisions set out as notes under sections 2551 and 5952 of Title 22. For complete classification of title XVIII to the Code, see Tables.

Section 1501(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997, referred to in par. (1)(A), is [section 1501(b) of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s1501/b), which was set out in a note under [section 2362 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2362), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XIII, § 1351(5)](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tXIII/s1351/5), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3607](/us/stat/128/3607).

Section 3101(a)(2) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 ([Public Law 107–314](/us/pl/107/314)), referred to in par. (1)(B), is not classified to the Code.
