---
title: "§ 41107. Access to the national crime information databases by tribes"
identifier: "USC-T34-S41107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section41107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 233(b)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s233/b), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2279](/us/stat/124/2279); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VIII, § 802(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVIII/s802/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 897](/us/stat/136/897).)"
---
# § 41107. Access to the national crime information databases by tribes

##### § 41107. Access to the national crime information databases by tribes

(1) In general The Attorney General shall ensure that—

(A) tribal law enforcement officials that meet applicable Federal or State requirements shall be permitted access to national crime information databases; and

(B) technical assistance and training is provided to Bureau of Indian Affairs and tribal law enforcement agencies to gain access to, and the ability to use and input information into, the National Crime Information Center and other national crime information databases pursuant to [section 534 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534).

(2) Sanctions For purpose of sanctions for noncompliance with requirements of, or misuse of, national crime information databases and information obtained from those databases, a tribal law enforcement agency or official shall be treated as Federal law enforcement agency or official.

(3) NCIC Each tribal justice official serving an Indian tribe shall be considered to be an authorized law enforcement official for purposes of access to the National Crime Information Center of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

*([Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 233(b)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s233/b), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2279](/us/stat/124/2279); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VIII, § 802(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVIII/s802/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 897](/us/stat/136/897).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 534 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is comprised of subsec. (b) of [section 233 of Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211/s233). Subsec. (a) of section 233 amended [section 534 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Amendments

2022—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 802(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/103/s802/a/1), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Attorney General shall ensure that tribal law enforcement officials that meet applicable Federal or State requirements be permitted access to national crime information databases.”

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 802(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/103/s802/a/2), struck out “with criminal jurisdiction over Indian country” after “Indian tribe”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.

#### Definitions

For definition of “Indian tribe” used in this section, see [section 203(a) of Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211/s203/a), set out as a note under [section 2801 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s2801), Indians.
