---
title: "§ 12302. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–501, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/101/501/tIX/s903), Nov. 3, 1990, [104 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/104/1262).)"
---
# § 12302. Definitions

##### § 12302. Definitions

(1) Commissioner The term “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families, as established under [section 12311 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12311).

(2) Council The term “Council” means the Federal Council on Children, Youth, and Families, as established under [section 12314(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12314/a).

(3) Nonprofit The term “‘nonprofit”, as applied to any agency, institution, or organization, means an agency, institution, or organization that is, or is owned and operated by, one or more corporations or associations, no part of the net earnings of which may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.

(4) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(5) State The term “State” includes the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

(6) Young individual The term “young individual” means any child or youth from birth to 21 years of age.

*([Pub. L. 101–501, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/101/501/tIX/s903), Nov. 3, 1990, [104 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/104/1262).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1990, see [section 1001(a) of Pub. L. 101–501](/us/pl/101/501/s1001/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1990 Amendment note under [section 8621 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8621).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding [section 1681 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1681), Territories and Insular Possessions.
