---
title: "§ 300u–14. Healthy aging, living well; evaluation of community-based prevention and wellness programs for Medicare beneficiaries"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300u–14"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300u–14"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, § 4202](/us/pl/111/148/tIV/s4202), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 566](/us/stat/124/566).)"
---
# § 300u–14. Healthy aging, living well; evaluation of community-based prevention and wellness programs for Medicare beneficiaries

##### § 300u–14. Healthy aging, living well; evaluation of community-based prevention and wellness programs for Medicare beneficiaries

(a) Healthy aging, living well

(1) In general The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”), acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall award grants to State or local health departments and Indian tribes to carry out 5-year pilot programs to provide public health community interventions, screenings, and where necessary, clinical referrals for individuals who are between 55 and 64 years of age.

(2) Eligibility To be eligible to receive a grant under paragraph (1), an entity shall—

(A) be—

(i) a State health department;

(ii) a local health department; or

(iii) an Indian tribe;

(B) submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require including a description of the program to be carried out under the grant;

(C) design a strategy for improving the health of the 55-to-64 year-old population through community-based public health interventions; and

(D) demonstrate the capacity, if funded, to develop the relationships necessary with relevant health agencies, health care providers, community-based organizations, and insurers to carry out the activities described in paragraph (3), such relationships to include the identification of a community-based clinical partner, such as a community health center or rural health clinic.

(3) Use of funds

(A) In general A State or local health department shall use amounts received under a grant under this subsection to carry out a program to provide the services described in this paragraph to individuals who are between 55 and 64 years of age.

(B) Public health interventions

(i) In general In developing and implementing such activities, a grantee shall collaborate with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Administration on Aging, and relevant local agencies and organizations.

(ii) Types of intervention activities Intervention activities conducted under this subparagraph may include efforts to improve nutrition, increase physical activity, reduce tobacco use and substance abuse, improve mental health, and promote healthy lifestyles among the target population.

(C) Community preventive screenings

(i) In general In addition to community-wide public health interventions, a State or local health department shall use amounts received under a grant under this subsection to conduct ongoing health screening to identify risk factors for cardiovascular disease, cancer, stroke, and diabetes among individuals in both urban and rural areas who are between 55 and 64 years of age.

(ii) Types of screening activities Screening activities conducted under this subparagraph may include—

(I) mental health/behavioral health and substance use disorders;

(II) physical activity, smoking, and nutrition; and

(III) any other measures deemed appropriate by the Secretary.

(iii) Monitoring Grantees under this section shall maintain records of screening results under this subparagraph to establish the baseline data for monitoring the targeted population 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.

(D) Clinical referral/treatment for chronic diseases

(i) In general A State or local health department shall use amounts received under a grant under this subsection to ensure that individuals between 55 and 64 years of age who are found to have chronic disease risk factors through the screening activities described in subparagraph (C)(ii), receive clinical referral/treatment for follow-up services to reduce such risk.

(ii) Mechanism

(I) Identification and determination of status With respect to each individual with risk factors for or having heart disease, stroke, diabetes, or any other condition for which such individual was screened under subparagraph (C), a grantee under this section shall determine whether or not such individual is covered under any public or private health insurance program.

(II) Insured individuals An individual determined to be covered under a health insurance program under subclause (I) shall be referred by the grantee to the existing providers under such program or, if such individual does not have a current provider, to a provider who is in-network with respect to the program involved.

(III) Uninsured individuals With respect to an individual determined to be uninsured under subclause (I), the grantee’s community-based clinical partner described in paragraph (4)(D) 22 So in original. Paragraph (4) does not contain subpars. shall assist the individual in determining eligibility for available public coverage options and identify other appropriate community health care resources and assistance programs.

(iii) Public health intervention program A State or local health department shall use amounts received under a grant under this subsection to enter into contracts with community health centers or rural health clinics and mental health and substance use disorder service providers to assist in the referral/treatment of at risk patients to community resources for clinical follow-up and help determine eligibility for other public programs.

(E) Grantee evaluation An eligible entity shall use amounts provided under a grant under this subsection to conduct activities to measure changes in the prevalence of chronic disease risk factors among participants.

(4) Pilot program evaluation The Secretary shall conduct an annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the pilot program under this subsection. In determining such effectiveness, the Secretary shall consider changes in the prevalence of uncontrolled chronic disease risk factors among new Medicare enrollees (or individuals nearing enrollment, including those who are 63 and 64 years of age) who reside in States or localities receiving grants under this section as compared with national and historical data for those States and localities for the same population.

(5) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection, such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014.

(b) Evaluation and plan for community-based prevention and wellness programs for Medicare beneficiaries

(1) In general The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of community-based prevention and wellness programs and develop a plan for promoting healthy lifestyles and chronic disease self-management for Medicare beneficiaries.

(2) Medicare evaluation of prevention and wellness programs

(A) In general The Secretary shall evaluate community prevention and wellness programs including those that are sponsored by the Administration on Aging, are evidence-based, and have demonstrated potential to help Medicare beneficiaries (particularly beneficiaries that have attained 65 years of age) reduce their risk of disease, disability, and injury by making healthy lifestyle choices, including exercise, diet, and self-management of chronic diseases.

(B) Evaluation The evaluation under subparagraph (A) shall consist of the following:

(i) Evidence review The Secretary shall review available evidence, literature, best practices, and resources that are relevant to programs that promote healthy lifestyles and reduce risk factors for the Medicare population. The Secretary may determine the scope of the evidence review and such issues to be considered, which shall include, at a minimum—

(I) physical activity, nutrition, and obesity;

(II) falls;

(III) chronic disease self-management; and

(IV) mental health.

(ii) Independent evaluation of evidence-based community prevention and wellness programs The Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for Aging, shall, to the extent feasible and practicable, conduct an evaluation of existing community prevention and wellness programs that are sponsored by the Administration on Aging to assess the extent to which Medicare beneficiaries who participate in such programs—

(I) reduce their health risks, improve their health outcomes, and adopt and maintain healthy behaviors;

(II) improve their ability to manage their chronic conditions; and

(III) reduce their utilization of health services and associated costs under the Medicare program for conditions that are amenable to improvement under such programs.

(3) Report Not later than September 30, 2013, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that includes—

(A) recommendations for such legislation and administrative action as the Secretary determines appropriate to promote healthy lifestyles and chronic disease self-management for Medicare beneficiaries;

(B) any relevant findings relating to the evidence review under paragraph (2)(B)(i); and

(C) the results of the evaluation under paragraph (2)(B)(ii).

(4) Funding For purposes of carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall provide for the transfer, from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund under section 1817 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 1395i](/us/usc/t42/s1395i)) and the Federal Supplemental 33 So in original. Probably should be “Supplementary”. Medical Insurance Trust Fund under section 1841 of such Act ([42 U.S.C. 1395t](/us/usc/t42/s1395t)), in such proportion as the Secretary determines appropriate, of $50,000,000 to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Program Management Account. Amounts transferred under the preceding sentence shall remain available until expended.

(5) Administration Chapter 35 of title 44 shall not apply to the 44 So in original. The word “the” probably should not appear. this subsection.

(6) Medicare beneficiary In this subsection, the term “Medicare beneficiary” means an individual who is entitled to benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1395c](/us/usc/t42/s1395c) et seq.] and enrolled under part B of such title [[42 U.S.C. 1395j](/us/usc/t42/s1395j) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, § 4202](/us/pl/111/148/tIV/s4202), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 566](/us/stat/124/566).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(6), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Parts A and B of title XVIII of the Act are classified generally to parts A (§ 1395c et seq.) and B (§ 1395j et seq.), respectively, of subchapter XVIII of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
