---
title: "§ 285c–9. Juvenile diabetes"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285c–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285c–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 434A, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tIV/s402), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1112](/us/stat/114/1112); amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(21)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s103/b/21), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688).)"
---
# § 285c–9. Juvenile diabetes

##### § 285c–9. Juvenile diabetes

(a) Long-term epidemiology studies The Director of the Institute shall conduct or support long-term epidemiology studies in which individuals with or at risk for type 1, or juvenile, diabetes are followed for 10 years or more. Such studies shall investigate the causes and characteristics of the disease and its complications.

(b) Clinical trial infrastructure/innovative treatments for juvenile diabetes The Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall support regional clinical research centers for the prevention, detection, treatment, and cure of juvenile diabetes.

(c) Prevention of type 1 diabetes The Secretary, acting through the appropriate agencies, shall provide for a national effort to prevent type 1 diabetes. Such effort shall provide for a combination of increased efforts in research and development of prevention strategies, including consideration of vaccine development, coupled with appropriate ability to test the effectiveness of such strategies in large clinical trials of children and young adults.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 434A, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tIV/s402), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1112](/us/stat/114/1112); amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(21)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s103/b/21), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2007—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) struck out heading and text of subsec. (d). Text read as follows: “For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482/s109), set out as a note under [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s281).
