---
title: "§ 7903. Technology inventory for developing countries"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–240, title VII, § 733](/us/pl/101/240/tVII/s733), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/109/58/tXVI/s1611), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/119/1114).)"
---
# § 7903. Technology inventory for developing countries

##### § 7903. Technology inventory for developing countries

(a) In general The Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, shall conduct an inventory of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies that are developed, or under development in the United States, to identify technologies that are suitable for transfer to, deployment in, and commercialization in the developing countries identified in the report submitted under [section 7902(a)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7902/a/2/A).

(b) Report Not later than 180 days after the completion of the inventory under subsection (a), the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy shall jointly submit to Congress a report that—

(1) includes the results of the completed inventory;

(2) identifies obstacles to the transfer, deployment, and commercialization of the inventoried technologies;

(3) includes results from previous Federal reports related to the inventoried technologies; and

(4) includes an analysis of market forces related to the inventoried technologies.

*([Pub. L. 101–240, title VII, § 733](/us/pl/101/240/tVII/s733), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/109/58/tXVI/s1611), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/119/1114).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2005, except as otherwise provided, see [section 739 of Pub. L. 101–240](/us/pl/101/240/s739), set out as a note under [section 7901 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7901).
