---
title: "§ 1767. Fiscal agents and depositories; authorization to secure deposits by governmental bodies"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1767"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1767"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1934, ch. 750](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch750), title I, § 121, formerly § 17, [48 Stat. 1222](/us/stat/48/1222); 1947, Reorg. Plan No. 1, § 401, eff. July 1, 1947, 12 F.R. 4534, [61 Stat. 952](/us/stat/61/952); [June 29, 1948, ch. 711](/us/act/1948-06-29/ch711), §§ 1, 2, [62 Stat. 1091](/us/stat/62/1091); renumbered § 22, [Pub. L. 86–354, § 1](/us/pl/86/354/s1), Sept. 22, 1959, [73 Stat. 637](/us/stat/73/637); amended [Pub. L. 91–206, § 2(1)](/us/pl/91/206/s2/1), Mar. 10, 1970, [84 Stat. 4"
---
# § 1767. Fiscal agents and depositories; authorization to secure deposits by governmental bodies

##### § 1767. Fiscal agents and depositories; authorization to secure deposits by governmental bodies

(a) Each Federal credit union organized under this chapter, when requested by the Secretary of the Treasury, shall act as fiscal agent of the United States and shall perform such services as the Secretary of the Treasury may require in connection with the collection of taxes and other obligations due the United States and the lending, borrowing, and repayment of money by the United States, including the issue, sale, redemption, or repurchase of bonds, notes, Treasury certificates of indebtedness, or other obligations of the United States; and to facilitate such purposes the Board shall furnish to the Secretary of the Treasury from time to time the names and addresses of all Federal credit unions with such other available information concerning them as may be requested by the Secretary of the Treasury. Any Federal credit union organized under this chapter, when designated for that purpose by the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be a depository of public money, except receipts from customs, under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(b) Any Federal credit union, upon the deposit with it of any funds by the Federal Government, an Indian tribe, or any State or local government or political subdivision thereof as otherwise authorized by this chapter, is authorized to pledge any of its assets securing the payment of the funds so deposited.

*([June 26, 1934, ch. 750](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch750), title I, § 121, formerly § 17, [48 Stat. 1222](/us/stat/48/1222); 1947, Reorg. Plan No. 1, § 401, eff. July 1, 1947, 12 F.R. 4534, [61 Stat. 952](/us/stat/61/952); [June 29, 1948, ch. 711](/us/act/1948-06-29/ch711), §§ 1, 2, [62 Stat. 1091](/us/stat/62/1091); renumbered § 22, [Pub. L. 86–354, § 1](/us/pl/86/354/s1), Sept. 22, 1959, [73 Stat. 637](/us/stat/73/637); amended [Pub. L. 91–206, § 2(1)](/us/pl/91/206/s2/1), Mar. 10, 1970, [84 Stat. 49](/us/stat/84/49); renumbered title I, § 121, [Pub. L. 91–468, § 1(2)](/us/pl/91/468/s1/2), Oct. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 994](/us/stat/84/994); amended [Pub. L. 95–630, title V, § 502(b)](/us/pl/95/630/tV/s502/b), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3681](/us/stat/92/3681); [Pub. L. 100–86, title VII, § 716](/us/pl/100/86/tVII/s716), Aug. 10, 1987, [101 Stat. 656](/us/stat/101/656).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1987—[Pub. L. 100–86](/us/pl/100/86) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

1978—[Pub. L. 95–630](/us/pl/95/630) substituted “Board” for “Administrator”.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–206](/us/pl/91/206) substituted “Administrator” for “Director”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–630](/us/pl/95/630) effective on expiration of 120 days after Nov. 10, 1978, and transitional provisions, see [section 509 of Pub. L. 95–630](/us/pl/95/630/s509), set out as a note under [section 1752 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1752).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Transfer of functions of Farm Credit Administration and Governor thereof, generally, see notes set out under [section 1751 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1751).

Functions of Governor of Farm Credit Administration under this section transferred to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1947.
