---
title: "§ 4202. Identifying effects of Federal programs on conversion of farmland to nonagricultural uses"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–98, title XV, § 1541](/us/pl/97/98/tXV/s1541), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1342](/us/stat/95/1342); [Pub. L. 101–624, title XIV, § 1454](/us/pl/101/624/tXIV/s1454), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3614](/us/stat/104/3614).)"
---
# § 4202. Identifying effects of Federal programs on conversion of farmland to nonagricultural uses

##### § 4202. Identifying effects of Federal programs on conversion of farmland to nonagricultural uses

(a) Development of criteria to identify The Department of Agriculture, in cooperation with other departments, agencies, independent commissions, and other units of the Federal Government, shall develop criteria for identifying the effects of Federal programs on the conversion of farmland to nonagricultural uses.

(b) Use of criteria to identify Departments, agencies, independent commissions, and other units of the Federal Government shall use the criteria established under subsection (a) of this section, to identify the quantity of farmland actually converted by Federal programs, and to identify and take into account the adverse effects of Federal programs on the preservation of farmland; consider alternative actions, as appropriate, that could lessen such adverse effects; and assure that such Federal programs, to the extent practicable, are compatible with State, unit of local government, and private programs and policies to protect farmland.

(c) Availability of restorative, etc., information The Department of Agriculture may make available to States, units of local government, individuals, organizations, and other units of the Federal Government information useful in restoring, maintaining, and improving the quantity and quality of farmland.

*([Pub. L. 97–98, title XV, § 1541](/us/pl/97/98/tXV/s1541), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1342](/us/stat/95/1342); [Pub. L. 101–624, title XIV, § 1454](/us/pl/101/624/tXIV/s1454), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3614](/us/stat/104/3614).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1990—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 101–624](/us/pl/101/624) inserted “to identify the quantity of farmland actually converted by Federal programs, and” after “of this section,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective six months after Dec. 22, 1981, see [section 1549 of Pub. L. 97–98](/us/pl/97/98/s1549), set out as a note under [section 4201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4201).
