---
title: "§ 2401c. Study by Secretary of Agriculture when International Trade Commission begins investigation"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2401c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2401c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–618, title II, § 294](/us/pl/93/618/tII/s294), as added [Pub. L. 107–210, div. A, title I, § 141(a)](/us/pl/107/210/dA/tI/s141/a), Aug. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 949](/us/stat/116/949).)"
---
# § 2401c. Study by Secretary of Agriculture when International Trade Commission begins investigation

##### § 2401c. Study by Secretary of Agriculture when International Trade Commission begins investigation

(a) In general Whenever the International Trade Commission (in this part referred to as the “Commission”) begins an investigation under [section 2252 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2252) with respect to an agricultural commodity, the Commission shall immediately notify the Secretary of the investigation. Upon receipt of the notification, the Secretary shall immediately conduct a study of—

(1) the number of agricultural commodity producers producing a like or directly competitive agricultural commodity who have been or are likely to be certified as eligible for adjustment assistance under this part, and

(2) the extent to which the adjustment of such producers to the import competition may be facilitated through the use of existing programs.

(b) Report Not later than 15 days after the day on which the Commission makes its report under [section 2252(f) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2252/f), the Secretary shall submit a report to the President setting forth the findings of the study described in subsection (a). Upon making the report to the President, the Secretary shall also promptly make the report public (with the exception of information which the Secretary determines to be confidential) and shall have a summary of the report published in the Federal Register.

*([Pub. L. 93–618, title II, § 294](/us/pl/93/618/tII/s294), as added [Pub. L. 107–210, div. A, title I, § 141(a)](/us/pl/107/210/dA/tI/s141/a), Aug. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 949](/us/stat/116/949).)*

#### Termination of Assistance

For termination of assistance under this part after June 30, 2022, see Termination Date note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination Date

Except as otherwise provided, technical assistance and financial assistance may not be provided under this part after June 30, 2022, see [section 285 of Pub. L. 93–618](/us/pl/93/618/s285), as modified by [section 406(a)(7) of Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27/s406/a/7), set out as notes preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).
