---
title: "§ 3334h. Data collection on attrition in intelligence community"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3334h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3334h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title III, § 306](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tIII/s306), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2367](/us/stat/134/2367).)"
---
# § 3334h. Data collection on attrition in intelligence community

##### § 3334h. Data collection on attrition in intelligence community

(a) Standards for data collection

(1) In general Not later than 90 days after December 27, 2020, the Director of National Intelligence shall establish standards for collecting data relating to attrition in the intelligence community workforce across demographics, specialities, and length of service.

(2) Inclusion of certain candidates The Director shall include, in the standards established under paragraph (1), standards for collecting data from candidates who accepted conditional offers of employment but chose to withdraw from the hiring process before entering into service, including data with respect to the reasons such candidates chose to withdraw.

(b) Collection of data Not later than 120 days after December 27, 2020, each element of the intelligence community shall begin collecting data on workforce and candidate attrition in accordance with the standards established under subsection (a).

(c) Annual report Not later than 1 year after December 27, 2020, and annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on workforce and candidate attrition in the intelligence community that includes—

(1) the findings of the Director based on the data collected under subsection (b);

(2) recommendations for addressing any issues identified in those findings; and

(3) an assessment of timeliness in processing hiring applications of individuals previously employed by an element of the intelligence community, consistent with the Trusted Workforce 2.0 initiative sponsored by the Security Clearance, Suitability, and Credentialing Performance Accountability Council.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title III, § 306](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tIII/s306), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2367](/us/stat/134/2367).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “intelligence community” and “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in text, see [section 2 of div. W of Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260/dW/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
