---
title: "§ 1643a. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1643a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1643a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54](/us/act/1950-03-10/ch54), title V, § 502, as added [Pub. L. 88–666](/us/pl/88/666), Oct. 16, 1964, [78 Stat. 1110](/us/stat/78/1110); amended [Pub. L. 89–780, § 2](/us/pl/89/780/s2), Nov. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 1365](/us/stat/80/1365).)"
---
# § 1643a. Definitions

##### § 1643a. Definitions

(1) The term “national of the United States” means (A) a natural person who is a citizen of the United States, or (B) a corporation or other legal entity which is organized under the laws of the United States, or of any State, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, if natural persons who are citizens of the United States own, directly or indirectly, 50 per centum or more of the outstanding capital stock or other beneficial interest of such corporation or entity. The term does not include aliens.

(2) The term “Commission” means the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States.

(3) The term “property” means any property, right, or interest, including any leasehold interest, and debts owed by the Government of Cuba or the Chinese Communist regime or by enterprises which have been nationalized, expropriated, intervened, or taken by the Government of Cuba or the Chinese Communist regime and debts which are a charge on property which has been nationalized, expropriated, intervened, or taken by the Government of Cuba or the Chinese Communist regime.

(4) The term “Government of Cuba” includes the government of any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.

(5) The term “Chinese Communist regime” means the so-called Peoples Republic of China, including any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof.

*([Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54](/us/act/1950-03-10/ch54), title V, § 502, as added [Pub. L. 88–666](/us/pl/88/666), Oct. 16, 1964, [78 Stat. 1110](/us/stat/78/1110); amended [Pub. L. 89–780, § 2](/us/pl/89/780/s2), Nov. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 1365](/us/stat/80/1365).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1966—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 89–780, § 2(1)](/us/pl/89/780/s2/1), inserted reference to the Chinese Communist regime in three places.

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 89–780, § 2(2)](/us/pl/89/780/s2/2), added par. (5).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States as Separate Agency Within Department of Justice

For provisions transferring Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States as a separate agency within the Department of Justice, see section 1622a et seq. of this title.
