---
title: "§ 8514. Hurricane forecast improvement program"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8514"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8514"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–25, title I, § 104](/us/pl/115/25/tI/s104), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 94](/us/stat/131/94); [Pub. L. 117–316, § 9](/us/pl/117/316/s9), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4412](/us/stat/136/4412).)"
---
# § 8514. Hurricane forecast improvement program

##### § 8514. Hurricane forecast improvement program

(a) In general The Under Secretary, in collaboration with the United States weather industry and such academic entities as the Administrator considers appropriate, shall maintain a project to improve hurricane forecasting.

(b) Goal The goal of the project maintained under subsection (a) shall be to develop and extend accurate hurricane forecasts and warnings in order to reduce loss of life, injury, and damage to the economy, with a focus on—

(1) improving the prediction of rapid intensification and track of hurricanes;

(2) improving the forecast and communication of storm surges from hurricanes;

(3) incorporating risk communication research to create more effective watch and warning products; and

(4) evaluating and incorporating, as appropriate, innovative observations, including acoustic or infrasonic measurements.

(c) Project plan Not later than 1 year after April 18, 2017, the Under Secretary, acting through the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and in consultation with the Director of the National Weather Service, shall develop a plan for the project maintained under subsection (a) that details the specific research, development, and technology transfer activities, as well as corresponding resources and timelines, necessary to achieve the goal set forth in subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 115–25, title I, § 104](/us/pl/115/25/tI/s104), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 94](/us/stat/131/94); [Pub. L. 117–316, § 9](/us/pl/117/316/s9), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4412](/us/stat/136/4412).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 117–316](/us/pl/117/316) added par. (4).
