---
title: "§ 10423. Review of State applications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10423"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10423"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1903](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1903), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 32101(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s32101/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1899](/us/stat/108/1899); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1145(c)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1145/c), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3112](/us/stat/119/3112).)"
---
# § 10423. Review of State applications

##### § 10423. Review of State applications

(a) In general The Attorney General shall make a grant under [section 10421 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10421) to carry out the projects described in the application submitted under [section 10422 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10422) upon determining that—

(1) the application is consistent with the requirements of this subchapter; and

(2) before the approval of the application the Attorney General has made an affirmative finding in writing that the proposed project has been reviewed in accordance with this subchapter.

(b) Approval Each application submitted under [section 10422 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10422) shall be considered approved, in whole or in part, by the Attorney General not later than 90 days after first received unless the Attorney General informs the applicant of specific reasons for disapproval.

(c) Restriction Grant funds received under this subchapter shall not be used for land acquisition or construction projects.

(d) Disapproval notice and reconsideration The Attorney General shall not disapprove any application without first affording the applicant reasonable notice and an opportunity for reconsideration.

(e) Priority for partnerships with community-based drug treatment programs In considering an application submitted by a State under [section 10422 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10422), the Attorney General shall give priority to an application that involves a partnership between the State and a community-based drug treatment program within the State.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1903](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1903), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 32101(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s32101/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1899](/us/stat/108/1899); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1145(c)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1145/c), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3112](/us/stat/119/3112).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796ff–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796ff–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) added subsec. (e).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) effective Oct. 1, 2006, see [section 1147 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s1147), set out as a note under [section 10422 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10422).
