---
title: "§ 2275c. Space Force satellite ground systems"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2275c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2275c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1603(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1603/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2160](/us/stat/138/2160).)"
---
# § 2275c. Space Force satellite ground systems

##### § 2275c. Space Force satellite ground systems

(a) Requirement.— The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisitions and Integration, acting as the service acquisition executive for the Air Force for space systems and programs, may not authorize a launch associated with a Space Force satellite acquisition program unless—

(1) the associated ground systems and modifications are completed and ready for operation at the time of the launch; and

(2) the applicable satellite capabilities may be used on completion of the launch.

(b) Waiver.—

(1) The Secretary of the Air Force may waive the requirement under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that such waiver is necessary for reasons of national security.

(2) Not later than 10 days after making a waiver under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of such waiver.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1603(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1603/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2160](/us/stat/138/2160).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions requiring reports on integration of acquisition and capability delivery schedules for segments of major satellite acquisition programs and funding for such programs were contained in [section 2275 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2275), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1603(b)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1603/b), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2160](/us/stat/138/2160).
