---
title: "§ 15301. General pipeline jurisdiction"
identifier: "USC-T49-S15301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section15301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 922](/us/stat/109/922).)"
---
# § 15301. General pipeline jurisdiction

##### § 15301. General pipeline jurisdiction

(a) In General.— The Board has jurisdiction over transportation by pipeline, or by pipeline and railroad or water, when transporting a commodity other than water, gas, or oil. Jurisdiction under this subsection applies only to transportation in the United States between a place in—

(1) a State and a place in another State;

(2) the District of Columbia and another place in the District of Columbia;

(3) a State and a place in a territory or possession of the United States;

(4) a territory or possession of the United States and a place in another such territory or possession;

(5) a territory or possession of the United States and another place in the same territory or possession;

(6) the United States and another place in the United States through a foreign country; or

(7) the United States and a place in a foreign country.

(b) No Jurisdiction Over Intrastate Transportation.— The Board does not have jurisdiction under subsection (a) over the transportation of property, or the receipt, delivery, storage, or handling of property, entirely in a State (other than the District of Columbia) and not transported between a place in the United States and a place in a foreign country except as otherwise provided in this part.

(c) Protection of States Powers.— This part does not affect the power of a State, in exercising its police power, to require reasonable intrastate transportation by carriers providing transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Board under this chapter unless the State requirement is inconsistent with an order of the Board issued under this part or is prohibited under this part.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 922](/us/stat/109/922).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 10501 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s10501) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
