---
title: "§ 3072. Eligibility for veterans benefits and other rights, privileges, immunities, and benefits under certain provisions of law"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3072"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3072"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 262](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s262), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3092](/us/stat/116/3092); [Pub. L. 108–189, § 2(g)](/us/pl/108/189/s2/g), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2866](/us/stat/117/2866).)"
---
# § 3072. Eligibility for veterans benefits and other rights, privileges, immunities, and benefits under certain provisions of law

##### § 3072. Eligibility for veterans benefits and other rights, privileges, immunities, and benefits under certain provisions of law

(a) In general Active service of officers of the Administration shall be deemed to be active military service for the purposes of all rights, privileges, immunities, and benefits under the following:

(1) Laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

(2) The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act [[50 U.S.C. 3901](/us/usc/t50/s3901) et seq.].

(3) [Section 410 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s410), as in effect before September 1, 1950.

(b) Exercise of authority In the administration of the laws and regulations referred to in subsection (a), with respect to the Administration, the authority vested in the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments and their respective departments shall be exercised by the Secretary of Commerce.

*([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 262](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s262), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3092](/us/stat/116/3092); [Pub. L. 108–189, § 2(g)](/us/pl/108/189/s2/g), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2866](/us/stat/117/2866).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), [54 Stat. 1178](/us/stat/54/1178), which is classified principally to chapter 50 (§ 3901 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in sections 857 and 857–3(a) of this title prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 107–372](/us/pl/107/372).

#### Amendments

2003—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189) amended par. (2) generally substituting “The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act” for “The Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940 (50 App. U.S.C. 501 et seq.)”.
