---
title: "§ 1592o. Powers of Surgeon General of Public Health Service"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1592o"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1592o"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title III, § 316, [65 Stat. 310](/us/stat/65/310).)"
---
# § 1592o. Powers of Surgeon General of Public Health Service

##### § 1592o. Powers of Surgeon General of Public Health Service

Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, all functions, powers, and duties under this subchapter and [section 1591b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1591b) with respect to health, refuse disposal, sewage treatment, and water purification shall be exercised by and vested in the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service: *Provided*, That the Surgeon General shall have power to delegate to any other Federal agency functions, powers, and duties with respect to construction.

*([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title III, § 316, [65 Stat. 310](/us/stat/65/310).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Office of Surgeon General abolished by section 3 of 1966 Reorg. Plan No. 3 eff. June 25, 1966, 31 F.R. 8855, [80 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/80/1610), and functions thereof transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 1 of 1966 Reorg. Plan. No. 3, set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202). Office of Surgeon General reestablished within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, see Notice of Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Mar. 30, 1987, 52 F.R. 11754.
