---
title: "§ 354. Investigative authority of Inspector General"
identifier: "USC-T49-S354"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section354"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 108–168, § 8(a)](/us/pl/108/168/s8/a), (b)(1), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/117/2034).)"
---
# § 354. Investigative authority of Inspector General

##### § 354. Investigative authority of Inspector General

(a) In General.— The statutory authority of the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation includes authority to conduct, pursuant to Federal criminal statutes, investigations of allegations that a person or entity has engaged in fraudulent or other criminal activity relating to the programs and operations of the Department or its operating administrations.

(b) Regulated Entities.— The authority to conduct investigations referred to in subsection (a) extends to any person or entity subject to the laws and regulations of the Department or its operating administrations, whether or not they are recipients of funds from the Department or its operating administrations.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 108–168, § 8(a)](/us/pl/108/168/s8/a), (b)(1), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/117/2034).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The text of [section 228 of Pub. L. 106–159](/us/pl/106/159/s228), formerly set out as a note under section 4 of the Inspector General Act of 1978, [Pub. L. 95–452](/us/pl/95/452), formerly set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, which was transferred to this section, redesignated as text of section, and amended by [Pub. L. 108–168, § 8(a)](/us/pl/108/168/s8/a), (b)(1), was based on [Pub. L. 106–159, title II, § 228](/us/pl/106/159/tII/s228), Dec. 9, 1999, [113 Stat. 1773](/us/stat/113/1773).

#### Amendments

2003—[Pub. L. 108–168](/us/pl/108/168) renumbered [section 228 of Pub. L. 106–159](/us/pl/106/159/s228) as this section and substituted “Investigative authority of Inspector General” for “DOT Authority” in section catchline. See Codification note above.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Deposit of Forfeited Funds

[Pub. L. 113–235, div. K, title I](/us/pl/113/235/dK/tI), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2724](/us/stat/128/2724), provided in part: “That hereafter funds transferred to the Office of the Inspector General through forfeiture proceedings or from the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund or the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, as a participating agency, as an equitable share from the forfeiture of property in investigations in which the Office of Inspector General participates, or through the granting of a Petition for Remission or Mitigation, shall be deposited to the credit of this account [Office of Inspector General, Salaries and Expenses] for law enforcement activities authorized under the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended [see [5 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t5/s401) et seq.], to remain available until expended.”

Similar provisions were contained in the following prior appropriation act:

[Pub. L. 113–76, div. L, title I](/us/pl/113/76/dL/tI), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 600](/us/stat/128/600).
