---
title: "§ 3109. Significant interpretations of law concerning intelligence activities"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3109"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3109"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 510, as added [Pub. L. 113–126, title III, § 321(a)](/us/pl/113/126/tIII/s321/a), July 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 1399](/us/stat/128/1399).)"
---
# § 3109. Significant interpretations of law concerning intelligence activities

##### § 3109. Significant interpretations of law concerning intelligence activities

(a) Notification Except as provided in subsection (c) and to the extent consistent with due regard for the protection from unauthorized disclosure of classified information relating to sensitive intelligence sources and methods or other exceptionally sensitive matters, the General Counsel of each element of the intelligence community shall notify the congressional intelligence committees, in writing, of any significant legal interpretation of the United States Constitution or Federal law affecting intelligence activities conducted by such element by not later than 30 days after the date of the commencement of any intelligence activity pursuant to such interpretation.

(b) Content Each notification under subsection (a) shall provide a summary of the significant legal interpretation and the intelligence activity or activities conducted pursuant to such interpretation.

(c) Exceptions A notification under subsection (a) shall not be required for a significant legal interpretation if—

(1) notice of the significant legal interpretation was previously provided to the congressional intelligence committees under subsection (a); or

(2) the significant legal interpretation was made before July 7, 2014.

(d) Limited access for covert action If the President determines that it is essential to limit access to a covert action finding under [section 3093(c)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3093/c/2), the President may limit access to information concerning such finding that is subject to notification under this section to those members of Congress who have been granted access to the relevant finding under [section 3093(c)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3093/c/2).

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 510, as added [Pub. L. 113–126, title III, § 321(a)](/us/pl/113/126/tIII/s321/a), July 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 1399](/us/stat/128/1399).)*
