---
title: "§ 930. Study of defense dependents’ education system"
identifier: "USC-T20-S930"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section930"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–561, title XIV, § 1412](/us/pl/95/561/tXIV/s1412), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2371](/us/stat/92/2371); [Pub. L. 96–46, § 2(a)(8)](/us/pl/96/46/s2/a/8), Aug. 6, 1979, [93 Stat. 340](/us/stat/93/340); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title III, § 354(5)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tIII/s354/5), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 573](/us/stat/113/573).)"
---
# § 930. Study of defense dependents’ education system

##### § 930. Study of defense dependents’ education system

(a) Scope; conduct and report to Director by contractor

(1) The Director may from time to time, but not more frequently than once a year, provide for a comprehensive study of the entire defense dependents’ education system. Any such study shall include a detailed analysis of the education programs and the facilities of the system.

(2) Any study under paragraph (1) shall be conducted by a contractor selected by the Director after an open competition. After conducting such study, the contractor shall submit a report to the Director describing the results of the study and giving its assessment of the defense dependents’ education system.

(b) Consultation requirements respecting study specifications and contractor selection In designing the specifications for any study to be conducted pursuant to subsection (a)(1), and in selecting a contractor to conduct such study under subsection (a)(2), the Director shall consult with the Advisory Council on Dependents’ Education established under section 929 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(c) Reporting requirements of Director The Director shall submit to the Congress any report submitted to him under subsection (a)(2) describing the results of a study carried out pursuant to subsection (a)(1), together with the recommendations, if any, of the contractor for legislation or any increase in funding needed to improve the defense dependents’ education system. Notwithstanding any law, rule, or regulation to the contrary, such report shall not be submitted to any review before its transmittal to the Congress, but the Secretary of Defense shall, at the time of the transmittal of such report, submit to the Congress such recommendations as he may have with respect to legislation or any increase in funding needed to improve the defense dependents’ education system.

*([Pub. L. 95–561, title XIV, § 1412](/us/pl/95/561/tXIV/s1412), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2371](/us/stat/92/2371); [Pub. L. 96–46, § 2(a)(8)](/us/pl/96/46/s2/a/8), Aug. 6, 1979, [93 Stat. 340](/us/stat/93/340); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title III, § 354(5)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tIII/s354/5), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 573](/us/stat/113/573).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 929 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s929), referred to in subsec. (b), was repealed by [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, § 576](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tV/s576), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2143](/us/stat/130/2143).

#### Amendments

1999—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 354(5)(A)](/us/pl/106/65/s354/5/A), substituted “The Director may from time to time, but not more frequently than once a year, provide for” for “As soon as practicable after November 1, 1978, the Director shall provide for” and “system. Any such study” for “system, which”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 354(5)(B)](/us/pl/106/65/s354/5/B), substituted “Any study under paragraph (1)” for “The study required by this subsection” and struck out “not later than two years after July 1, 1979,” after “shall submit a report to the Director”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 354(5)(C)](/us/pl/106/65/s354/5/C), substituted “any study” for “the study”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 354(5)(D)](/us/pl/106/65/s354/5/D), substituted “any report” for “not later than one year after July 1, 1979, the report” and “a study” for “the study”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 354(5)(E)](/us/pl/106/65/s354/5/E), struck out subsec. (d) which read as follows: “The Director may provide for additional studies of the defense dependents’ education system to be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section, but such studies shall not be conducted more frequently than once a year. A report of each study shall be submitted to the Congress in accordance with subsection (c) of this section, and the second sentence of such subsection shall apply with respect to the transmission of each such report.”

1979—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 96–46](/us/pl/96/46) substituted “two years after July 1, 1979” for “one year after July 1, 1979”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

[Pub. L. 96–46, § 8](/us/pl/96/46/s8), Aug. 6, 1979, [93 Stat. 343](/us/stat/93/343), provided that: “The amendments made by this Act [enacting [section 3164 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3164), amending this section, sections 240, 241–1, 1211a, 1221–3, 1221h, 1226c, 1232g, 2308, 2310, 2603, 2721, 2733 to 2735, 2740, 2762, 2763, 2772, 2782, 2902, 3084, 3163, 3200, 3289, 3381 to 3386 of this title, and sections 2001, 2002, 2006, 2008, 2012 of Title 25, Indians, enacting a provision set out as a note under [section 1221e of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1221e), and amending provisions set out as notes under sections 236, 1211b, 1221–1, 1231a, and 2701 of this title and [section 13 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s13)] shall take effect October 1, 1978.”
