---
title: "§ 24322. Rolling stock purchases"
identifier: "USC-T49-S24322"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section24322"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title XI, § 11208(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tXI/s11208/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1639](/us/stat/129/1639).)"
---
# § 24322. Rolling stock purchases

##### § 24322. Rolling stock purchases

(a) In General.— Prior to entering into any contract in excess of $100,000,000 for rolling stock and locomotive procurements Amtrak shall submit a business case analysis to the Secretary of Transportation, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, on the utility of such procurements.

(b) Contents.— The business case analysis shall—

(1) include a cost and benefit comparison that describes the total lifecycle costs and the anticipated benefits related to revenue, operational efficiency, reliability, and other factors;

(2) set forth the total payments by fiscal year;

(3) identify the specific source and amounts of funding for each payment, including Federal funds, State funds, Amtrak profits, Federal, State, or private loans or loan guarantees, and other funding;

(4) include an explanation of whether any payment under the contract will increase Amtrak’s funding request in its general and legislative annual report required under section 24315(b) in a particular fiscal year; and

(5) describe how Amtrak will adjust the procurement if future funding is not available.

(c) Rule of Construction.— Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring Amtrak to disclose confidential information regarding a potential vendor’s proposed pricing or other sensitive business information prior to contract execution or prohibiting Amtrak from entering into a contract after submission of a business case analysis under subsection (a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title XI, § 11208(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tXI/s11208/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1639](/us/stat/129/1639).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.
