---
title: "§ 242q–4. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S242q–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section242q–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–557, title III, § 304](/us/pl/101/557/tIII/s304), formerly § 305, Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2770](/us/stat/104/2770); renumbered § 304, [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/b/3/B), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3694](/us/stat/120/3694).)"
---
# § 242q–4. Definitions

##### § 242q–4. Definitions

(1) Aging research

(A) The term “aging research” means research on the aging process and on the diagnosis and treatment of diseases, disorders, and complications related to aging, including menopause. Such research includes research on such treatments, and on medical devices and other medical interventions regarding such diseases, disorders, and complications, that can assist individuals in avoiding institutionalization and prolonged hospitalization and in otherwise increasing the independence of the individuals.

(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term “independence”, with respect to diseases, disorders, and complications of aging, means the functional ability of individuals to perform activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living without assistance or supervision.

(2) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(3) Task Force The term “Task Force” means the Task Force on Aging Research established under [section 242q(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s242q/a).

*([Pub. L. 101–557, title III, § 304](/us/pl/101/557/tIII/s304), formerly § 305, Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2770](/us/stat/104/2770); renumbered § 304, [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/b/3/B), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3694](/us/stat/120/3694).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Home Health Care and Alzheimer’s Disease Amendments of 1990, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 304 of Pub. L. 101–557](/us/pl/101/557/s304) was classified to [section 242q–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s242q–3), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482).
