---
title: "§ 459h–9. Gulf Islands National Seashore Advisory Commission; establishment; termination; membership; term; Chairman; compensation and payment of expenses; consultation by Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T16-S459h–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section459h–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–660, § 10](/us/pl/91/660/s10), Jan. 8, 1971, [84 Stat. 1969](/us/stat/84/1969).)"
---
# § 459h–9. Gulf Islands National Seashore Advisory Commission; establishment; termination; membership; term; Chairman; compensation and payment of expenses; consultation by Secretary

##### § 459h–9. Gulf Islands National Seashore Advisory Commission; establishment; termination; membership; term; Chairman; compensation and payment of expenses; consultation by Secretary

(1) one member to be appointed from recommendations made by the county commissioners in the respective counties;

(2) one member to be appointed from recommendations made by the Governor of the State from each county; and

(3) one member to be designated by the Secretary from each county.

*([Pub. L. 91–660, § 10](/us/pl/91/660/s10), Jan. 8, 1971, [84 Stat. 1969](/us/stat/84/1969).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Commissions

Advisory commissions in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a commission established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such commission is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a commission established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
