---
title: "§ 997. Establishment of women’s initiative teams"
identifier: "USC-T10-S997"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section997"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title V, § 522(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tV/s522/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 864](/us/stat/139/864).)"
---
# § 997. Establishment of women’s initiative teams

##### § 997. Establishment of women’s initiative teams

(a) Establishment.— The Secretary concerned shall establish a women’s initiative team in each of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force to identify and address barriers, if any, to the service, recruitment, retention, and advancement of women in those armed forces.

(b) Duties.— Each women’s initiative team established under subsection (a) shall—

(1) identify and address issues, if any, that hinder service by women in the armed force in which such team is established;

(2) support the recruitment and retention of women in such armed force;

(3) recommend policy changes that support the needs of women members of such armed force; and

(4) foster a sense of community.

(c) Composition.— Each women’s initiative team established under subsection (a) shall be composed of members of the armed force in which such team is established of a variety of ranks, backgrounds, and occupational specialities.

(d) Collaboration.— A women’s initiative team established under subsection (a) shall work collaboratively with the leadership of the armed force in which such team is established and other stakeholders to carry out the duties described in subsection (b).

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title V, § 522(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tV/s522/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 864](/us/stat/139/864).)*
