---
title: "§ 1903. Annual Board of Visitors"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 510](/us/stat/63/510), § 194; [Pub. L. 101–595, title III, § 304](/us/pl/101/595/tIII/s304), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2984](/us/stat/104/2984); [Pub. L. 107–295, title IV, § 408(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/295/tIV/s408/a/1), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2117](/us/stat/116/2117); [Pub. L. 113–281, title II, § 211](/us/pl/113/281/tII/s211), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3027](/us/stat/128/3027); renumbered § 1903, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 110(b)](/"
---
# § 1903. Annual Board of Visitors

##### § 1903. Annual Board of Visitors

(a) In General.— A Board of Visitors to the Coast Guard Academy is established to review and make recommendations on the operation of the Academy.

(b) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The membership of the Board shall consist of the following:

(A) The chairperson of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, or a member of such Committee designated by such chairperson.

(B) The chairperson of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, or a member of such Committee designated by such chairperson.

(C) 3 Senators appointed by the Vice President.

(D) 4 Members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

(E) 2 Senators appointed by the Vice President, each of whom shall be selected from among members of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

(F) 2 Members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, each of whom shall be selected from among members of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(G) 6 individuals designated by the President.

(2) Timing of appointments of members.—

(A) Senators.— If any member of the Board described in paragraph (1)(C) is not appointed by the date that is 180 days after the date on which the first session of each Congress convenes, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate with jurisdiction over the authorization of appropriations of the Coast Guard shall be members of the Board until the date on which the second session of such Congress adjourns sine die.

(B) Members of the house of representatives.— If any member of the Board described in paragraph (1)(D) is not appointed by the date that is 180 days after the date on which the first session of each Congress convenes, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives with jurisdiction over the authorization of appropriations for the Coast Guard shall be members of the Board until the date on which the second session of such Congress adjourns sine die.

(C) Members of the committee on appropriations of the senate.— If any member of the Board described in paragraph (1)(E) is not appointed by the date that is 180 days after the date on which the first session of each Congress convenes, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate with jurisdiction over appropriations for the Coast Guard shall be members of the Board until the date on which the second session of such Congress adjourns sine die.

(D) Members of the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives.— If any member of the Board described in paragraph (1)(F) is not appointed by the date that is 180 days after the date on which the first session of each Congress convenes, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives with jurisdiction over appropriations for the Coast Guard shall be members of the Board until the date on which the second session of such Congress adjourns sine die.

(3) Chairperson.—

(A) In general.— On a biennial basis and subject to paragraph (4), the Board shall select from among the members of the Board a Member of Congress to serve as the Chair of the Board.

(B) Rotation.— A Member of the House of Representatives and a Member of the Senate shall alternately be selected as the Chair of the Board.

(C) Term.— An individual may not serve as Chairperson of the Board for consecutive terms.

(4) Length of service.—

(A) Members of congress.— A Member of Congress designated as a member of the Board under paragraph (1) shall be designated as a member in the first session of the applicable Congress and shall serve for the duration of such Congress.

(B) Individuals designated by the president.— Each individual designated by the President under paragraph (1)(G) shall serve as a member of the Board for 3 years, except that any such member whose term of office has expired shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed by the President.

(C) Death or resignation of a member.— If a member of the Board dies or resigns, a successor shall be designated for any unexpired portion of the term of the member by the official who designated the member.

(c) Academy Visits.—

(1) Annual visit.— The Commandant shall invite each member of the Board, and any staff designated under subsection (e)(2)(A), to visit the Coast Guard Academy at least once annually to review the operation of the Academy.

(2) Additional visits.— With the approval of the Secretary, the Board or any members of the Board in connection with the duties of the Board may—

(A) make visits to the Academy in addition to the visits described in paragraph (1); or

(B) consult with—

(i) the Superintendent of the Academy; or

(ii) the faculty, staff, or cadets of the Academy.

(3) Access.— The Commandant shall ensure that the Board or any members of the Board who visits the Academy under this paragraph is provided reasonable access to the grounds, facilities, cadets, faculty, staff, and other personnel of the Academy for the purpose of carrying out the duties of the Board.

(d) Scope of Review.— The Board shall review, with respect to the Academy—

(1) the state of morale and discipline, including with respect to prevention of, response to, and recovery from sexual assault and sexual harassment;

(2) recruitment and retention, including diversity, inclusion, and issues regarding women specifically;

(3) the curriculum;

(4) instruction;

(5) physical equipment, including infrastructure, living quarters, and deferred maintenance;

(6) fiscal affairs; and

(7) other matters relating to the Academy that the Board determines appropriate.

(e) Administrative Matters.—

(1) Meetings.—

(A) In general.— Not less frequently than annually, the Board shall meet at a location chosen by the Commandant, in consultation with the Board, to conduct the review required by subsection (d).

(B) Chairperson and charter.— The Federal officer designated under subsection (g)(1)(B) shall organize a meeting of the Board for the purposes of—

(i) selecting a Chairperson of the Board under subsection (b)(3);

(ii) adopting an official charter for the Board, which shall establish the schedule of meetings of the Board; and

(iii) any other matter such designated Federal officer or the Board considers appropriate.

(C) Scheduling.— In scheduling a meeting of the Board, such designated Federal officer shall coordinate, to the greatest extent practicable, with the members of the Board to determine the date and time of the meeting.

(D) Notification.— Not less than 30 days before each scheduled meeting of the Board, such designated Federal officer shall notify each member of the Board of the time, date, and location of the meeting.

(2) Staff.—

(A) Designation.— The chairperson and the ranking member of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the chairperson and the ranking member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives may each designate 1 staff member of each such Committees.

(B) Role.— Staff designated under subparagraph (A)—

(i) may attend and participate in visits and carry out consultations described under subsection (c)(1) and attend and participate in meetings described under paragraph (1); and

(ii) may not otherwise carry out duties or take actions reserved to members of the Board under this section.

(3) Advisors.— If approved by the Secretary, the Board may consult with advisors in carrying out the duties of the Board under this section.

(4) Reports.—

(A) In general.— Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Board conducts a meeting of the Board under paragraph (1), the Commandant, in consultation with the Board, shall submit a report on the actions of the Board during the meeting and the recommendations of the Board pertaining to the Academy to—

(i) the Secretary;

(ii) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and

(iii) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

(B) Publication.— Each report submitted under this paragraph shall be published on a publicly accessible website of the Coast Guard.

(f) Disclosure.— The Commandant and the Superintendent of the Academy shall ensure candid and complete disclosure to the Board, consistent with applicable laws relating to disclosure of information, with respect to—

(1) each issue described in subsection (d); and

(2) any other issue the Board or the Commandant considers appropriate.

(g) Coast Guard Support.—

(1) In general.— The Commandant shall—

(A) provide support to the Board, as Board considers necessary for the performance of the duties of the Board;

(B) designate a Federal officer to support the performance of the duties of the Board; and

(C) in cooperation with the Superintendent of the Academy, advise the Board of any institutional issues, consistent with applicable laws concerning the disclosure of information.

(2) Reimbursement.— Each member of the Board and each advisor consulted by the Board under subsection (e)(3) shall be reimbursed, to the extent permitted by law, by the Coast Guard for actual expenses incurred while engaged in duties as a member or advisor.

(h) Notification.— Not later than 30 days after the date on which the first session of each Congress convenes, the Commandant shall provide to the chairperson and ranking member of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the chairperson and ranking member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the President notification of the requirements of this section.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 510](/us/stat/63/510), § 194; [Pub. L. 101–595, title III, § 304](/us/pl/101/595/tIII/s304), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2984](/us/stat/104/2984); [Pub. L. 107–295, title IV, § 408(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/295/tIV/s408/a/1), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2117](/us/stat/116/2117); [Pub. L. 113–281, title II, § 211](/us/pl/113/281/tII/s211), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3027](/us/stat/128/3027); renumbered § 1903, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 110(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s110/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4212](/us/stat/132/4212); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8277, Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4687](/us/stat/134/4687); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, § 554(d)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tV/s554/d), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1738](/us/stat/135/1738); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7242](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7242), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1723](/us/stat/139/1723).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 15h ([Apr. 16, 1937, ch. 107, § 7](/us/act/1937-04-16/ch107/s7), [50 Stat. 67](/us/stat/50/67); [July 15, 1939, ch. 288](/us/act/1939-07-15/ch288), [53 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/53/1044)).

Changes were made in phraseology. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7242(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s7242/1), added subsecs. (b) and (c) and struck out former subsecs. (b) and (c) which related to membership and academy visits, respectively.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7242(2)(A)](/us/pl/119/60/s7242/2/A), inserted “ ,including with respect to prevention of, response to, and recovery from sexual assault and sexual harassment” after “discipline”.

Subsec. (d)(5). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7242(2)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/s7242/2/B), inserted “ ,including infrastructure, living quarters, and deferred maintenance” after “equipment”.

Subsecs. (e) to (h). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7242(3)](/us/pl/119/60/s7242/3), added subsecs. (e) to (h) and struck out former subsecs. (e) to (g) which related to report, advisors, and reimbursement, respectively.

2021—Subsec. (b)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) substituted “is appointed by the President” for “is appointed”.

Subsec. (d)(2) to (7). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) added par. (2) and redesignated former pars. (2) to (6) as (3) to (7), respectively.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 194 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s194) as this section.

2014—[Pub. L. 113–281](/us/pl/113/281) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section consisted of subsecs. (a) to (f) relating to establishment and composition of Board of Visitors, designation of Members, absence of a Member or ex officio Member from an annual meeting, and annual visit to the Academy.

2002—Subsec. (b)(2), (5). [Pub. L. 107–295](/us/pl/107/295) substituted “Transportation and Infrastructure” for “Merchant Marine and Fisheries”.

1990—[Pub. L. 101–595](/us/pl/101/595) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows:

“(a) In addition to the Advisory Committee, there shall be appointed in January of each year a Board of Visitors to the Academy, consisting of two Senators and three members of the House of Representatives, appointed by the chairmen of the committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, having cognizance of legislation pertaining to the Academy, the chairmen of said committees being ex officio members of the Board, and of one Senator and two members of the House of Representatives appointed by the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively. Whenever a member or an ex officio member is unable to attend the annual meeting as provided in this section another member may be appointed in his stead in the manner as herein provided but without restriction as to month of appointment.

“(b) Such Board shall visit the Academy annually on a date to be fixed by the Secretary. Each member of the Board shall be reimbursed from Coast Guard appropriations under Government travel regulations for the actual expense incurred by him while engaged in duties as a member of such Board, or such actual expenses as permitted under such regulations shall be defrayed by the Coast Guard.”
