---
title: "§ 4041. Enforcement by the Attorney General"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4041"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4041"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title VIII, § 801, as added [Pub. L. 111–275, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/111/275/tIII/s303/a), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2877](/us/stat/124/2877).)"
---
# § 4041. Enforcement by the Attorney General

##### § 4041. Enforcement by the Attorney General

(a) Civil action The Attorney General may commence a civil action in any appropriate district court of the United States against any person who—

(1) engages in a pattern or practice of violating this chapter; or

(2) engages in a violation of this chapter that raises an issue of significant public importance.

(b) Relief In a civil action commenced under subsection (a), the court may—

(1) grant any appropriate equitable or declaratory relief with respect to the violation of this chapter;

(2) award all other appropriate relief, including monetary damages, to any person aggrieved by the violation; and

(3) may, to vindicate the public interest, assess a civil penalty—

(A) in an amount not exceeding $55,000 for a first violation; and

(B) in an amount not exceeding $110,000 for any subsequent violation.

(c) Intervention Upon timely application, a person aggrieved by a violation of this chapter with respect to which the civil action is commenced may intervene in such action, and may obtain such appropriate relief as the person could obtain in a civil action under [section 4042 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4042) with respect to that violation, along with costs and a reasonable attorney fee.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title VIII, § 801, as added [Pub. L. 111–275, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/111/275/tIII/s303/a), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2877](/us/stat/124/2877).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 597 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
