---
title: "§ 3526. Improvement of education in science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3526"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3526"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 25](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s25), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title V, § 501](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tV/s501), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2380](/us/stat/134/2380).)"
---
# § 3526. Improvement of education in science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics

##### § 3526. Improvement of education in science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” includes a department or agency of the Federal Government, a State, a political subdivision of a State, an individual, and a not-for-profit or other organization in the private sector.

(2) Educational institution The term “educational institution” includes any public or private elementary school or secondary school, institution of higher education, college, university, or any other profit or nonprofit institution that is dedicated to improving science, technology, engineering, the arts, mathematics, business, law, medicine, or other fields that promote development and education relating to science, technology, engineering, the arts, or mathematics.

(3) State The term “State” means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

(b) Requirements The Director shall, on a continuing basis—

(1) identify actions that the Director may take to improve education in the scientific, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics (known as “STEAM”) skills necessary to meet the long-term national security needs of the United States for personnel proficient in such skills; and

(2) establish and conduct programs to carry out such actions.

(c) Authorities

(1) In general The Director, in support of educational programs in science, technology, engineering, the arts, and mathematics, may—

(A) award grants to eligible entities;

(B) provide cash awards and other items to eligible entities;

(C) accept voluntary services from eligible entities;

(D) support national competition judging, other educational event activities, and associated award ceremonies in connection with such educational programs; and

(E) enter into one or more education partnership agreements with educational institutions in the United States for the purpose of encouraging and enhancing study in science, technology, engineering, the arts, and mathematics disciplines at all levels of education.

(2) Education partnership agreements

(A) Nature of assistance provided Under an education partnership agreement entered into with an educational institution under paragraph (1)(E), the Director may provide assistance to the educational institution by—

(i) loaning equipment to the educational institution for any purpose and duration in support of such agreement that the Director considers appropriate;

(ii) making personnel available to teach science courses or to assist in the development of science courses and materials for the educational institution;

(iii) providing sabbatical opportunities for faculty and internship opportunities for students;

(iv) involving faculty and students of the educational institution in Agency projects, including research and technology transfer or transition projects;

(v) cooperating with the educational institution in developing a program under which students may be given academic credit for work on Agency projects, including research and technology transfer for transition projects; and

(vi) providing academic and career advice and assistance to students of the educational institution.

(B) Priorities In entering into education partnership agreements under paragraph (1)(E), the Director shall prioritize entering into education partnership agreements with the following:

(i) Historically Black colleges and universities and other minority-serving institutions, as described in [section 1067q(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1067q/a).

(ii) Educational institutions serving women, members of minority groups, and other groups of individuals who traditionally are involved in the science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics professions in disproportionately low numbers.

(d) Designation of advisor The Director shall designate one or more individuals within the Agency to advise and assist the Director regarding matters relating to science, technology, engineering, the arts, and mathematics education and training.

*([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 25](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s25), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title V, § 501](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tV/s501), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2380](/us/stat/134/2380).)*
