---
title: "§ 247d–8. Coordinated program to improve pediatric oral health"
identifier: "USC-T42-S247d–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section247d–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 320A, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title XVI, § 1603](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tXVI/s1603), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1151](/us/stat/114/1151).)"
---
# § 247d–8. Coordinated program to improve pediatric oral health

##### § 247d–8. Coordinated program to improve pediatric oral health

(a) In general The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, shall establish a program to fund innovative oral health activities that improve the oral health of children under 6 years of age who are eligible for services provided under a Federal health program, to increase the utilization of dental services by such children, and to decrease the incidence of early childhood and baby bottle tooth decay.

(b) Grants The Secretary shall award grants to or enter into contracts with public or private nonprofit schools of dentistry or accredited dental training institutions or programs, community dental programs, and programs operated by the Indian Health Service (including federally recognized Indian tribes that receive medical services from the Indian Health Service, urban Indian health programs funded under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act [[25 U.S.C. 1651](/us/usc/t25/s1651) et seq.], and tribes that contract with the Indian Health Service pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act [[25 U.S.C. 5301](/us/usc/t25/s5301) et seq.]) to enable such schools, institutions, and programs to develop programs of oral health promotion, to increase training of oral health services providers in accordance with State practice laws, or to increase the utilization of dental services by eligible children.

(c) Distribution In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, ensure an equitable national geographic distribution of the grants, including areas of the United States where the incidence of early childhood caries is highest.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “of”. the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 320A, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title XVI, § 1603](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tXVI/s1603), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1151](/us/stat/114/1151).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Health Care Improvement Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400). Title V of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 1651 et seq.) of chapter 18 of Title 25, Indians. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which is classified principally to chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of Title 25, Indians. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Section 1603 of Pub. L. 106–310](/us/pl/106/310/s1603), which directed that section 320A (this section) be added at the end of part B of the Public Health Service Act, was executed by adding section 320A at the end of part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act, to reflect the probable intent of Congress, notwithstanding that section 320 of the Public Health Service Act ([section 247e of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247e)) appears in part C of title III of the Public Health Service Act.
