---
title: "§ 1397m–2. Long-term care ombudsman program grants and training"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1397m–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1397m–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2043, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6703(a)(1)(C)](/us/pl/111/148/tVI/s6703/a/1/C), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 796](/us/stat/124/796).)"
---
# § 1397m–2. Long-term care ombudsman program grants and training

##### § 1397m–2. Long-term care ombudsman program grants and training

(a) Grants to support the long-term care ombudsman program

(1) In general The Secretary shall make grants to eligible entities with relevant expertise and experience in abuse and neglect in long-term care facilities or long-term care ombudsman programs and responsibilities, for the purpose of—

(A) improving the capacity of State long-term care ombudsman programs to respond to and resolve complaints about abuse and neglect;

(B) conducting pilot programs with State long-term care ombudsman offices or local ombudsman entities; and

(C) providing support for such State long-term care ombudsman programs and such pilot programs (such as through the establishment of a national long-term care ombudsman resource center).

(2) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection—

(A) for fiscal year 2011, $5,000,000;

(B) for fiscal year 2012, $7,500,000; and

(C) for each of fiscal years 2013 and 2014, $10,000,000.

(b) Ombudsman training programs

(1) In general The Secretary shall establish programs to provide and improve ombudsman training with respect to elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation for national organizations and State long-term care ombudsman programs.

(2) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection, for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2014, $10,000,000.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2043, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6703(a)(1)(C)](/us/pl/111/148/tVI/s6703/a/1/C), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 796](/us/stat/124/796).)*
