---
title: "§ 1768. Conveyance of lands covered by right-of-way; terms and conditions"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1768"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1768"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–579, title V, § 508](/us/pl/94/579/tV/s508), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2781](/us/stat/90/2781).)"
---
# § 1768. Conveyance of lands covered by right-of-way; terms and conditions

##### § 1768. Conveyance of lands covered by right-of-way; terms and conditions

If under applicable law the Secretary concerned decides to transfer out of Federal ownership any lands covered in whole or in part by a right-of-way, including a right-of-way granted under the Act of November 16, 1973 ([87 Stat. 576](/us/stat/87/576); [30 U.S.C. 185](/us/usc/t30/s185)), the lands may be conveyed subject to the right-of-way; however, if the Secretary concerned determines that retention of Federal control over the right-of-way is necessary to assure that the purposes of this subchapter will be carried out, the terms and conditions of the right-of-way complied with, or the lands protected, he shall (a) reserve to the United States that portion of the lands which lies within the boundaries of the right-of-way, or (b) convey the lands, including that portion within the boundaries of the right-of-way, subject to the right-of-way and reserving to the United States the right to enforce all or any of the terms and conditions of the right-of-way, including the right to renew it or extend it upon its termination and to collect rents.

*([Pub. L. 94–579, title V, § 508](/us/pl/94/579/tV/s508), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2781](/us/stat/90/2781).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of November 16, 1973, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–153](/us/pl/93/153), Nov. 16, 1973, [87 Stat. 576](/us/stat/87/576). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

See note set out under [section 1763 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1763).
