---
title: "§ 277d–34. American-Mexican Boundary Treaty, authorization for carrying out treaty provisions; investigations; land acquisition, purposes; damages, repair or compensation"
identifier: "USC-T22-S277d–34"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section277d–34"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–549, title I, § 101](/us/pl/92/549/tI/s101), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/86/1161).)"
---
# § 277d–34. American-Mexican Boundary Treaty, authorization for carrying out treaty provisions; investigations; land acquisition, purposes; damages, repair or compensation

##### § 277d–34. American-Mexican Boundary Treaty, authorization for carrying out treaty provisions; investigations; land acquisition, purposes; damages, repair or compensation

(1) to conduct technical and other investigations relating to—

(A) the demarcation, mapping, monumentation, channel relocation, rectification, improvement, stabilization, and other matters relating to the preservation of the river boundaries between the United States and Mexico;

(B) the establishment and delimitation of the maritime boundaries in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Pacific Ocean;

(C) water resources; and

(D) the sanitation and the prevention of pollution;

(2) to acquire by donation, purchase, or condemnation, all lands or interests in lands required—

(A) for transfer to Mexico as provided in the treaty;

(B) for construction of that portion of new river channels and the adjoining levees in the territory of the United States;

(C) to preserve the Rio Grande and the Colorado River as the boundary by preventing the construction of works which may cause deflection or obstruction of the normal flow of the rivers or of their floodflows; and

(D) for relocation of any structure or facility, public or private, the relocation of which, in the judgment of the Commissioner, is necessitated by the project; and

(3) to remove, modify, or repair the damages caused to Mexico by works constructed in the United States which the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, as determined have an adverse effect on Mexico, or to compensate Mexico for such damages.

*([Pub. L. 92–549, title I, § 101](/us/pl/92/549/tI/s101), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/86/1161).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, means [Pub. L. 92–549](/us/pl/92/549), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/86/1161), which enacted sections 277d–34 to 277d–42 of this title and amended [section 1322 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1322), Customs Duties. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 92–549, § 1](/us/pl/92/549/s1), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/86/1161), provided: “That this Act [enacting this section and sections 277d–35 to 277d–42 of this title and amending [section 1322 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1322), Customs Duties] may be cited as the ‘American-Mexican Boundary Treaty Act of 1972’.”
