---
title: "§ 299b–24a. Activities regarding women’s health"
identifier: "USC-T42-S299b–24a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section299b–24a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IX, § 925, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3509(e)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3509/e/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 534](/us/stat/124/534).)"
---
# § 299b–24a. Activities regarding women’s health

##### § 299b–24a. Activities regarding women’s health

(a) Establishment There is established within the Office of the Director, an Office of Women’s Health and Gender-Based Research (referred to in this section as the “Office”). The Office shall be headed by a director who shall be appointed by the Director of Healthcare and Research Quality.

(b) Purpose The official designated under subsection (a) shall—

(1) report to the Director on the current Agency level of activity regarding women’s health, across, where appropriate, age, biological, and sociocultural contexts, in all aspects of Agency work, including the development of evidence reports and clinical practice protocols and the conduct of research into patient outcomes, delivery of health care services, quality of care, and access to health care;

(2) establish short-range and long-range goals and objectives within the Agency for research important to women’s health and, as relevant and appropriate, coordinate with other appropriate offices on activities within the Agency that relate to health services and medical effectiveness research, for issues of particular concern to women;

(3) identify projects in women’s health that should be conducted or supported by the Agency;

(4) consult with health professionals, nongovernmental organizations, consumer organizations, women’s health professionals, and other individuals and groups, as appropriate, on Agency policy with regard to women; and

(5) serve as a member of the Department of Health and Human Services Coordinating Committee on Women’s Health (established under [section 237a(b)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s237a/b/4)).

(c) Authorization of appropriations For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IX, § 925, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3509(e)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3509/e/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 534](/us/stat/124/534).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 925 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 926 and is classified to [section 299b–25 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s299b–25).

Another prior section 925 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 945 and is classified to [section 299c–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s299c–4).

Another prior section 925 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 299c–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s299c–4) prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 106–129](/us/pl/106/129).
