---
title: "§ 964. Delivering armed vessel to belligerent nation"
identifier: "USC-T18-S964"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section964"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 747](/us/stat/62/747); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 964. Delivering armed vessel to belligerent nation

##### § 964. Delivering armed vessel to belligerent nation

(a) During a war in which the United States is a neutral nation, it shall be unlawful to send out of the United States any vessel built, armed, or equipped as a vessel of war, or converted from a private vessel into a vessel of war, with any intent or under any agreement or contract that such vessel will be delivered to a belligerent nation, or to an agent, officer, or citizen of such nation, or with reasonable cause to believe that the said vessel will be employed in the service of any such belligerent nation after its departure from the jurisdiction of the United States.

(b) Whoever, in violation of this section, takes or attempts to take, or authorizes the taking of any such vessel, out of port or from the United States, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.In addition, such vessel, her tackle, apparel, furniture, equipment, and her cargo shall be forfeited to the United States.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 747](/us/stat/62/747); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., §§ 33, 36 ([June 15, 1917, ch. 30](/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30), title V, §§ 3, 6, [40 Stat. 222](/us/stat/40/222); [Mar. 28, 1940, ch. 72, § 5](/us/act/1940-03-28/ch72/s5), [54 Stat. 79](/us/stat/54/79)).

Section consolidates said sections of title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed.

Words “within the United States” were substituted for “within the jurisdiction” etc., in view of the definition of United States in [section 5 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s5).

Mandatory punishment provision was rephrased in the alternative.

The conspiracy provision of said section 36 was omitted as covered by [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s371). See reviser’s note under that section.

Minor changes of phraseology were made.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $10,000”.
