---
title: "§ 4236. Individual compensation of eligible Aleuts"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4236"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4236"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–383, title II, § 206](/us/pl/100/383/tII/s206), Aug. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 914](/us/stat/102/914).)"
---
# § 4236. Individual compensation of eligible Aleuts

##### § 4236. Individual compensation of eligible Aleuts

(a) Payments to eligible Aleuts In addition to payments made under [section 4235 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4235), the Secretary shall, in accordance with this section, make per capita payments out of the Fund to eligible Aleuts. The Secretary shall pay, subject to the availability of funds appropriated to the Fund for such payments, to each eligible Aleut the sum of $12,000.

(b) Assistance of Attorney General The Secretary may request the Attorney General to provide reasonable assistance in locating eligible Aleuts residing outside the affected Aleut villages, and upon such request, the Attorney General shall provide such assistance. In so doing, the Attorney General may use available facilities and resources of the International Committee of the Red Cross and other organizations.

(c) Assistance of Administrator The Secretary may request the assistance of the Administrator in identifying and locating eligible Aleuts for purposes of this section.

(d) Clarification of treatment of payments under other laws Amounts paid to an eligible Aleut under this section—

(1) shall be treated for purposes of the internal revenue laws of the United States as damages for human suffering, and

(2) shall not be included as income or resources for purposes of determining eligibility to receive benefits described in [section 3803(c)(2)(C) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3803/c/2/C) or the amount of such benefits.

(e) Payment in full settlement of claims against United States The payment to an eligible Aleut under this section shall be in full satisfaction of all claims against the United States arising out of the relocation described in [section 4232(5) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4232/5).

(f) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Fund such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 100–383, title II, § 206](/us/pl/100/383/tII/s206), Aug. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 914](/us/stat/102/914).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1989c–5 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
