---
title: "§ 17286. Geothermal assessment, exploration information, and priority activities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17286"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17286"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title VIII, § 807](/us/pl/110/140/tVIII/s807), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1723](/us/stat/121/1723).)"
---
# § 17286. Geothermal assessment, exploration information, and priority activities

##### § 17286. Geothermal assessment, exploration information, and priority activities

(a) In general Not later than January 1, 2012, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Geological Survey, shall—

(1) complete a comprehensive nationwide geothermal resource assessment that examines the full range of geothermal resources in the United States; and

(2) submit to the the 11 So in original. Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report describing the results of the assessment.

(b) Periodic updates At least once every 10 years, the Secretary shall update the national assessment required under this section to support public and private sector decisionmaking.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior to carry out this section—

(1) $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012; and

(2) such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 2013 through 2022.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title VIII, § 807](/us/pl/110/140/tVIII/s807), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1723](/us/stat/121/1723).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
