---
title: "§ 7430. Application of sections 7423 and 7425 to exercise of constitutional authorities"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7430"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7430"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–206, title II, § 2011](/us/pl/107/206/tII/s2011), Aug. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 907](/us/stat/116/907).)"
---
# § 7430. Application of sections 7423 and 7425 to exercise of constitutional authorities

##### § 7430. Application of sections 7423 and 7425 to exercise of constitutional authorities

(a) In general Sections 7423 and 7425 of this title shall not apply to any action or actions with respect to a specific matter involving the International Criminal Court taken or directed by the President on a case-by-case basis in the exercise of the President’s authority as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States under article II, section 2 of the United States Constitution or in the exercise of the executive power under article II, section 1 of the United States Constitution.

(b) Notification to Congress

(1) In general Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 15 days after the President takes or directs an action or actions described in subsection (a) that would otherwise be prohibited under section 7423 or 7425 of this title, the President shall submit a notification of such action to the appropriate congressional committees. A notification under this paragraph shall include a description of the action, a determination that the action is in the national interest of the United States, and a justification for the action.

(2) Exception If the President determines that a full notification under paragraph (1) could jeopardize the national security of the United States or compromise a United States law enforcement activity, not later than 15 days after the President takes or directs an action or actions referred to in paragraph (1) the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees that an action has been taken and a determination has been made pursuant to this paragraph. The President shall provide a full notification under paragraph (1) not later than 15 days after the reasons for the determination under this paragraph no longer apply.

(c) Construction Nothing in this section shall be construed as a grant of statutory authority to the President to take any action.

*([Pub. L. 107–206, title II, § 2011](/us/pl/107/206/tII/s2011), Aug. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 907](/us/stat/116/907).)*
