---
title: "§ 1810. Fee relating to renewal or extension of employment authorization for asylum applicants"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1810"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1810"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–21, title X, § 100011](/us/pl/119/21/tX/s100011), July 4, 2025, [139 Stat. 372](/us/stat/139/372).)"
---
# § 1810. Fee relating to renewal or extension of employment authorization for asylum applicants

##### § 1810. Fee relating to renewal or extension of employment authorization for asylum applicants

(a) In general In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall require the payment of a fee of not less than $275 by any alien who has applied for asylum for each renewal or extension of employment authorization based on such application.

(b) Termination Each initial employment authorization, or renewal or extension of such authorization, shall terminate—

(1) immediately following the denial of an asylum application by an asylum officer, unless the case is referred to an immigration judge;

(2) on the date that is 30 days after the date on which an immigration judge denies an asylum application, unless the alien makes a timely appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals; or

(3) immediately following the denial by the Board of Immigration Appeals of an appeal of a denial of an asylum application.

(c) Disposition of fees relating to renewal and extension of employment authorization for asylum applicants During each fiscal year—

(1) 25 percent of the fees collected pursuant to this section—

(A) shall be credited to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services;

(B) shall be deposited into the Immigration Examinations Fee Account established under [section 1356(m) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1356/m); and

(C) may be retained and expended by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services without further appropriation; and

(2) any amounts collected pursuant to this section that are not credited to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) No fee waiver Fees required to be paid under this section shall not be waived or reduced.

*([Pub. L. 119–21, title X, § 100011](/us/pl/119/21/tX/s100011), July 4, 2025, [139 Stat. 372](/us/stat/139/372).)*
