---
title: "§ 285e–10a. Alzheimer’s clinical research and training awards"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285e–10a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285e–10a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 445I, as added [Pub. L. 106–505, title VIII, § 801(2)](/us/pl/106/505/tVIII/s801/2), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2349](/us/stat/114/2349); amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(25)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s103/b/25), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688).)"
---
# § 285e–10a. Alzheimer’s clinical research and training awards

##### § 285e–10a. Alzheimer’s clinical research and training awards

(a) In general The Director of the Institute is authorized to establish and maintain a program to enhance and promote the translation of new scientific knowledge into clinical practice related to the diagnosis, care and treatment of individuals with Alzheimer’s disease.

(b) Support of promising clinicians In order to foster the application of the most current developments in the etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, prevention and treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, amounts made available under this section shall be directed to the support of promising clinicians through awards for research, study, and practice at centers of excellence in Alzheimer’s disease research and treatment.

(c) Excellence in certain fields Research shall be carried out under awards made under subsection (b) in environments of demonstrated excellence in neuroscience, neurobiology, geriatric medicine, and psychiatry and shall foster innovation and integration of such disciplines or other environments determined suitable by the Director of the Institute.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 445I, as added [Pub. L. 106–505, title VIII, § 801(2)](/us/pl/106/505/tVIII/s801/2), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2349](/us/stat/114/2349); amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(25)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s103/b/25), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 445I of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 445J and was classified to [section 285e–11 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285e–11) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482).

#### Amendments

2007—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) struck out heading and text of subsec. (d). Text read as follows: “For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $2,250,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2005.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482/s109), set out as a note under [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s281).
