---
title: "§ 2674. Protection of classified information during laboratory-to-laboratory exchanges"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2674"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2674"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLV, § 4524](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLV/s4524), formerly [Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXI, § 3145](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXI/s3145), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 935](/us/stat/113/935); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLV, § 4524](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLV/s4524), by [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(h)(14)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/h/14), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1775](/us/stat/117/1775); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6744(b)]("
---
# § 2674. Protection of classified information during laboratory-to-laboratory exchanges

##### § 2674. Protection of classified information during laboratory-to-laboratory exchanges

(a) Provision of training The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that all Department of Energy employees and Department of Energy contractor employees participating in laboratory-to-laboratory cooperative exchange activities are fully trained in matters relating to the protection of classified information and to potential espionage and counterintelligence threats.

(b) Countering of espionage and intelligence-gathering abroad

(1) The Secretary shall establish a pool of Department employees and Department contractor employees who are specially trained to counter threats of espionage and intelligence-gathering by foreign nationals against Department employees and Department contractor employees who travel abroad for laboratory-to-laboratory exchange activities or other cooperative exchange activities on behalf of the Department.

(2) The Director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence of the Department of Energy may assign at least one employee from the pool established under paragraph (1) to accompany a group of Department employees or Department contractor employees who travel to any nation designated to be a sensitive country for laboratory-to-laboratory exchange activities or other cooperative exchange activities on behalf of the Department.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLV, § 4524](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLV/s4524), formerly [Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXI, § 3145](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXI/s3145), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 935](/us/stat/113/935); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLV, § 4524](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLV/s4524), by [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(h)(14)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/h/14), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1775](/us/stat/117/1775); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6744(b)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6744/b), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2241](/us/stat/133/2241).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 7383b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7383b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 108–136](/us/pl/108/136).

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) inserted “Intelligence and” after “The Director of”.
