---
title: "§ 6062. Funding for Individuals with Disabilities Education Act"
identifier: "USC-T20-S6062"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section6062"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–227, title X, § 1012](/us/pl/103/227/tX/s1012), Mar. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 265](/us/stat/108/265).)"
---
# § 6062. Funding for Individuals with Disabilities Education Act

##### § 6062. Funding for Individuals with Disabilities Education Act

(a) Findings The Congress finds that—

(1) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [[20 U.S.C. 1400](/us/usc/t20/s1400) et seq.] was established with the commitment of forty percent Federal funding but currently receives only eight percent Federal funding;

(2) this funding shortfall is particularly burdensome to school districts and schools in low-income areas which serve higher than average proportions of students with disabilities and have fewer local resources to contribute; and

(3) it would cost the Federal Government approximately $10,000,000,000 each year to fully fund the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.

(b) Sense of Congress It is the sense of the Congress that the Federal Government should provide States and communities with adequate resources under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [[20 U.S.C. 1400](/us/usc/t20/s1400) et seq.] as soon as reasonably possible, through the reallocation of noneducation funds within the current budget monetary constraints.

*([Pub. L. 103–227, title X, § 1012](/us/pl/103/227/tX/s1012), Mar. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 265](/us/stat/108/265).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in text, is title VI of [Pub. L. 91–230](/us/pl/91/230), Apr. 13, 1970, [84 Stat. 175](/us/stat/84/175), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1400 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1400) and Tables.

#### Codification

Another [section 1012 of Pub. L. 103–227](/us/pl/103/227/s1012) was classified to [section 6054a of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6054a), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 107–279](/us/pl/107/279).
