---
title: "§ 1990. Transfer of lands to Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1990"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1990"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 340](/us/pl/87/128/tIII/s340), Aug. 8, 1961, [75 Stat. 318](/us/stat/75/318).)"
---
# § 1990. Transfer of lands to Secretary

##### § 1990. Transfer of lands to Secretary

The President may at any time in his discretion transfer to the Secretary any right, interest, or title held by the United States in any lands acquired in the program of national defense and no longer needed therefor, which the President shall find suitable for the purposes of this chapter, and the Secretary shall dispose of such lands in the manner and subject to the terms and conditions of the chapter.

*([Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 340](/us/pl/87/128/tIII/s340), Aug. 8, 1961, [75 Stat. 318](/us/stat/75/318).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 87–128](/us/pl/87/128), Aug. 8, 1961, [75 Stat. 307](/us/stat/75/307), known as the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1921 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1921) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Authority of President under this section in his discretion to transfer to Secretary of Agriculture any right, interest or title held by United States in any lands acquired in program of national defense and no longer needed for that program, and to determine suitability of lands to be transferred, for purposes referred to in this section, delegated to Administrator of General Services, provided, that exercise by Administrator of authority delegated to him herein shall require concurrence of Secretary of Defense as to absence of further need of lands for national defense program, see section 1(15) of Ex. Ord. No. 11609, July 22, 1971, 36 F.R. 13747, set out as a note under [section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), The President.
