---
title: "§ 3075. Interagency working group"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3075"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3075"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–258, § 7](/us/pl/117/258/s7), Dec. 21, 2022, [136 Stat. 2383](/us/stat/136/2383).)"
---
# § 3075. Interagency working group

##### § 3075. Interagency working group

(a) In general The Secretary shall designate a coordinating office to convene an interagency working group consisting of representatives from the Departments of the Interior, Justice, State, and Homeland Security.

(b) Goals The goals of the interagency working group convened under subsection (a) are—

(1) to facilitate the repatriation to Indian Tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations of items that have been illegally removed or trafficked in violation of applicable law;

(2) to protect tangible cultural heritage, cultural items, and archaeological resources still in the possession of Indian Tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations; and

(3) to improve the implementation by the applicable Federal agencies of—

(A) the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act ([25 U.S.C. 3001](/us/usc/t25/s3001) et seq.) (including [section 1170 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1170), as added by that Act);

(B) the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 ([16 U.S.C. 470aa](/us/usc/t16/s470aa) et seq.); and

(C) other relevant Federal laws.

(c) Responsibilities The interagency working group convened under subsection (a) shall—

(1) aid in implementation of this chapter and the amendments made by this Act, including by aiding in—

(A) the voluntary return of tangible cultural heritage under [section 3074 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3074); and

(B) halting international sales of items that are prohibited from being trafficked under Federal law; and

(2) collaborate with—

(A) the Native working group convened under [section 3076(a) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3076/a);

(B) the review committee established under section 8(a) of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act ([25 U.S.C. 3006(a)](/us/usc/t25/s3006/a));

(C) the Cultural Heritage Coordinating Committee established pursuant to section 2 of the Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act ([Public Law 114–151](/us/pl/114/151); [19 U.S.C. 2601](/us/usc/t19/s2601) note); and

(D) any other relevant committees and working groups.

*([Pub. L. 117–258, § 7](/us/pl/117/258/s7), Dec. 21, 2022, [136 Stat. 2383](/us/stat/136/2383).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(A), is [Pub. L. 101–601](/us/pl/101/601), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3048](/us/stat/104/3048), which is classified principally to chapter 32 (§ 3001 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3001) and Tables.

The Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(B), is [Pub. L. 96–95](/us/pl/96/95), Oct. 31, 1979, [93 Stat. 721](/us/stat/93/721), which is classified generally to chapter 1B (§ 470aa et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 470aa of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s470aa) and Tables.

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 117–258](/us/pl/117/258), Dec. 21, 2022, [136 Stat. 2372](/us/stat/136/2372), known as the Safeguard Tribal Objects of Patrimony Act of 2021, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3071 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3071) and Tables.

The amendments made by this Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), means the amendment made by [Pub. L. 117–258](/us/pl/117/258), which amended [section 1170 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1170), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
