---
title: "§ 1448. Assistance to certain institutions abroad founded or sponsored by United States citizens"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1448"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1448"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Jan. 27, 1948, ch. 36](/us/act/1948-01-27/ch36), title II, § 203, [62 Stat. 7](/us/stat/62/7).)"
---
# § 1448. Assistance to certain institutions abroad founded or sponsored by United States citizens

##### § 1448. Assistance to certain institutions abroad founded or sponsored by United States citizens

The Secretary is authorized to provide for assistance to schools,11 See Partial Repeal note below. libraries, and community centers abroad, founded or sponsored by citizens of the United States, and serving as demonstration centers for methods and practices employed in the United States. In assisting any such schools, however, the Secretary shall exercise no control over their educational policies and shall in no case furnish assistance of any character which is not in keeping with the free democratic principles and the established foreign policy of the United States.

*([Jan. 27, 1948, ch. 36](/us/act/1948-01-27/ch36), title II, § 203, [62 Stat. 7](/us/stat/62/7).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Partial Repeal

[Pub. L. 87–256, § 111(a)(2)](/us/pl/87/256/s111/a/2), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 538](/us/stat/75/538), repealed this section insofar as it relates to schools. See section 2451 et seq. of this title. Continuation in full force and effect, and applicability to the appropriate provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, [22 U.S.C. 2451](/us/usc/t22/s2451) et seq., until modified or superseded by appropriate authority, of all Executive orders, agreements, determinations, regulations, contracts, appointments, and other actions issued, concluded, or taken under authority of this section, see [section 111(b) of Pub. L. 87–256](/us/pl/87/256/s111/b), set out as a Continuation of Certain Executive Orders, Agreements, Determinations, Regulations, Contracts, Appointments, and Other Actions note under [section 2451 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2451).
