---
title: "§ 3037. Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3037"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3037"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 104B, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, § 423(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIV/s423/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2727](/us/stat/124/2727).)"
---
# § 3037. Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency

##### § 3037. Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency

(a) Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency There is a Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency who shall be appointed by the President.

(b) Duties The Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall—

(1) assist the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency; and

(2) during the absence or disability of the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, or during a vacancy in the position of Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, act for and exercise the powers of the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 104B, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, § 423(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIV/s423/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2727](/us/stat/124/2727).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403–4c of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403–4c) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, § 423(c)](/us/pl/111/259/tIV/s423/c), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2728](/us/stat/124/2728), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees] shall apply on the earlier of— “(1) the date of the appointment by the President of an individual to serve as Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency pursuant to section 104B of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3037](/us/usc/t50/s3037)], as added by subsection (a), except that the individual administratively performing the duties of the Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency as of the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 7, 2010] may continue to perform such duties until the individual appointed to the position of Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency assumes the duties of such position; or “(2) the date of the cessation of the performance of the duties of the Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency by the individual administratively performing such duties as of the date of the enactment of this Act.”
