---
title: "§ 4217. Leases"
identifier: "USC-T26-S4217"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section4217"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 494](/us/stat/68A/494); [Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 677, § 3](/us/act/1955-08-09/ch677/s3), [69 Stat. 614](/us/stat/69/614); [Pub. L. 85–859, title I, § 117(a)](/us/pl/85/859/tI/s117/a), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/72/1280); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1904](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1904) (a)(3), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1811](/us/stat/90/1811); [Pub. L. 95–618, title II, § 201(d)](/us/pl/95/618/tII/s201/d), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3"
---
# § 4217. Leases

##### § 4217. Leases

(a) Lease considered as sale For purposes of this chapter, the lease of an article (including any renewal or any extension of a lease or any subsequent lease of such article) by the manufacturer, producer, or importer shall be considered a sale of such article.

(b) Limitation on tax In the case of any lease described in subsection (a) of an article taxable under this chapter, if the tax under this chapter is based on the price for which such articles are sold, there shall be paid on each lease payment with respect to such article a percentage of such payment equal to the rate of tax in effect on the date of such payment, until the total of the tax payments under such lease and any prior lease to which this subsection applies equals the total tax.

(c) Definition of total tax For purposes of this section, the term “total tax” means—

Any such computation of tax shall be made at the applicable rate specified in this chapter in effect on the date of the first lease to which subsection (b) applies.

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2), the tax computed on the constructive sale price for such article which would be determined under section 4216(b) if such article were sold at retail on the date of the first lease to which subsection (b) applies; or

(2) if the first lease to which subsection (b) applies is not the first lease of the article, the tax computed on the fair market value of such article on the date of the first lease to which subsection (b) applies.

(d) Special rules

(1) Lessor must also be engaged in selling Subsection (b) shall not apply to any lease of an article unless at the time of making the lease, or any prior lease of such article to which subsection (b) applies, the person making the lease or prior lease was also engaged in the business of selling in arm’s length transactions the same type and model of article.

(2) Sale before total tax becomes payable If the taxpayer sells an article before the total tax has become payable, then the tax payable on such sale shall be whichever of the following is the smaller:

For purposes of subparagraph (B), if the sale is at arm’s length, section 4216(b) shall not apply.

(A) the difference between (i) the tax imposed on lease payments under leases of such article to which subsection (b) applies, and (ii) the total tax, or

(B) a tax computed, at the rate in effect on the date of the sale, on the price for which the article is sold.

(3) Sale after total tax has become payable If the taxpayer sells an article after the total tax has become payable, no tax shall be imposed under this chapter on such sale.

(e) Leases of automobiles subject to gas guzzler tax

(1) In general In the case of the lease of an automobile the sale of which by the manufacturer would be taxable under section 4064, the foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply, but, for purposes of this chapter—

(A) the first lease of such automobile by the manufacturer shall be considered to be a sale, and

(B) any lease of such automobile by the manufacturer after the first lease of such automobile shall not be considered to be a sale.

(2) Payment of tax In the case of a lease described in paragraph (1)(A)—

(A) there shall be paid by the manufacturer on each lease payment that portion of the total gas guzzler tax which bears the same ratio to such total gas guzzler tax as such payment bears to the total amount to be paid under such lease,

(B) if such lease is canceled, or the automobile is sold or otherwise disposed of, before the total gas guzzler tax is payable, there shall be paid by the manufacturer on such cancellation, sale, or disposition the difference between the tax imposed under subparagraph (A) on the lease payments and the total gas guzzler tax, and

(C) if the automobile is sold or otherwise disposed of after the total gas guzzler tax is payable, no tax shall be imposed under section 4064 on such sale or disposition.

(3) Definitions For purposes of this subsection—

(A) Manufacturer The term “manufacturer” includes a producer or importer.

(B) Total gas guzzler tax The term “total gas guzzler tax” means the tax imposed by section 4064, computed at the rate in effect on the date of the first lease.

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 494](/us/stat/68A/494); [Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 677, § 3](/us/act/1955-08-09/ch677/s3), [69 Stat. 614](/us/stat/69/614); [Pub. L. 85–859, title I, § 117(a)](/us/pl/85/859/tI/s117/a), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/72/1280); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1904](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1904) (a)(3), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1811](/us/stat/90/1811); [Pub. L. 95–618, title II, § 201(d)](/us/pl/95/618/tII/s201/d), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3184](/us/stat/92/3184).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 95–618](/us/pl/95/618) added subsec. (e).

1976—Subsec. (d)(4). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out par. (4) relating to special transitional rules applicable to leases.

1958—[Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859) substituted “Leases” for “Lease considered as sale” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859) redesignated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and struck out provisions which made subsection inapplicable to the lease of an article upon which the tax has been paid in the manner provided in section 4216(d)(1) or the total tax has been paid in the manner provided in [section 4216(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t26/s4216/d/2).

Subsecs. (b) to (d). [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859) added subsecs. (b) to (d).

1955—Act Aug. 9, 1955, exempted lease of an article upon which tax has been paid under section 4216(d)(1) or [section 4216(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t26/s4216/d/2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–618](/us/pl/95/618) applicable with respect to 1980 and later model year automobiles, see [section 201(g) of Pub. L. 95–618](/us/pl/95/618/s201/g), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 4064 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s4064).

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) effective on first day of first month which begins more than 90 days after Oct. 4, 1976, see [section 1904(d) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s1904/d), set out as a note under [section 4041 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s4041).

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859) effective on first day of first calendar quarter which begins more than 60 days after Sept. 2, 1958, see [section 1(c) of Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859/s1/c), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1275](/us/stat/72/1275).

#### Effective Date of 1955 Amendment

Section effective on first day of first month which begins more than ten days after Aug. 9, 1955, see section 4 of act Aug. 9, 1955, set out as a note under [section 4216 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s4216).

#### Application of Leases of Utility Trailers

[Pub. L. 85–859, title I, § 117(c)](/us/pl/85/859/tI/s117/c), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1281](/us/stat/72/1281), as amended by [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095), provided that: “The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) [amending this section and [section 4216 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s4216)] shall not apply to any lease of an article if section 4216(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [formerly I.R.C. 1954, prior subsec. (d) of [section 4216 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s4216)] applied to any lease of such article before the effective date specified in section 1(c) of this Act.”
