---
title: "§ 7609. Study and report"
identifier: "USC-T15-S7609"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section7609"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–164, § 10](/us/pl/108/164/s10), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/117/2026).)"
---
# § 7609. Study and report

##### § 7609. Study and report

(a) Study The Federal Trade Commission shall undertake a study to examine the strength of competition in the sale of prescription contact lenses. The study shall include an examination of the following issues:

(1) Incidence of exclusive relationships between prescribers or sellers and contact lens manufacturers and the impact of such relationships on competition.

(2) Difference between online and offline sellers of contact lenses, including price, access, and availability.

(3) Incidence, if any, of contact lens prescriptions that specify brand name or custom labeled contact lenses, the reasons for the incidence, and the effect on consumers and competition.

(4) The impact of the Federal Trade Commission eyeglasses rule (16 CFR 456 et seq.) on competition, the nature of the enforcement of the rule, and how such enforcement has impacted competition.

(5) Any other issue that has an impact on competition in the sale of prescription contact lenses.

(b) Report Not later than 12 months after the effective date of this chapter, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission shall submit to the Congress a report of the study required by subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 108–164, § 10](/us/pl/108/164/s10), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/117/2026).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), see [section 12 of Pub. L. 108–164](/us/pl/108/164/s12), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 7601 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7601).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 60 days after Dec. 6, 2003, see [section 12 of Pub. L. 108–164](/us/pl/108/164/s12), set out as a note under [section 7601 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7601).
