---
title: "§ 120. Scope of exclusive rights in architectural works"
identifier: "USC-T17-S120"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title17-section120"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "17"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–650, title VII, § 704(a)](/us/pl/101/650/tVII/s704/a), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5133](/us/stat/104/5133).)"
---
# § 120. Scope of exclusive rights in architectural works

##### § 120. Scope of exclusive rights in architectural works

(a) Pictorial Representations Permitted.— The copyright in an architectural work that has been constructed does not include the right to prevent the making, distributing, or public display of pictures, paintings, photographs, or other pictorial representations of the work, if the building in which the work is embodied is located in or ordinarily visible from a public place.

(b) Alterations to and Destruction of Buildings.— Notwithstanding the provisions of section 106(2), the owners of a building embodying an architectural work may, without the consent of the author or copyright owner of the architectural work, make or authorize the making of alterations to such building, and destroy or authorize the destruction of such building.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–650, title VII, § 704(a)](/us/pl/101/650/tVII/s704/a), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5133](/us/stat/104/5133).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any architectural work created on or after Dec. 1, 1990, and any architectural work, that, on Dec. 1, 1990, is unconstructed and embodied in unpublished plans or drawings, except that protection for such architectural work under this title terminates on Dec. 31, 2002, unless the work is constructed by that date, see [section 706 of Pub. L. 101–650](/us/pl/101/650/s706), set out as an Effective Date of 1990 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t17/s101).
