---
title: "§ 2792. Limitations on use of funds for laboratory directed research and development purposes"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2792"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2792"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4812](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4812), formerly [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXI, § 3137](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXI/s3137), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2038](/us/stat/111/2038); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4812](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4812), and amended [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(k)(7)(A)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/k/7/A), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1784](/us/stat/117/1784); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, titl"
---
# § 2792. Limitations on use of funds for laboratory directed research and development purposes

##### § 2792. Limitations on use of funds for laboratory directed research and development purposes

(a) Limitation on use of weapons activities funds No funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Energy in any fiscal year after fiscal year 1997 for weapons activities may be obligated or expended for activities under the Department of Energy Laboratory Directed Research and Development Program, or under any Department of Energy technology transfer program or cooperative research and development agreement, unless such activities support the national security mission of the Department of Energy.

(b) Limitation on use of certain other funds No funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Energy in any fiscal year after fiscal year 1997 for defense environmental cleanup may be obligated or expended for activities under the Department of Energy Laboratory Directed Research and Development Program, or under any Department of Energy technology transfer program or cooperative research and development agreement, unless such activities support the defense environmental cleanup mission of the Department of Energy.

(c) Limitation on use of funds for overhead A national security laboratory may not use funds made available under [section 2791(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2791/c) to cover the costs of general and administrative overhead for the laboratory.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4812](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4812), formerly [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXI, § 3137](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXI/s3137), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2038](/us/stat/111/2038); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4812](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4812), and amended [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(k)(7)(A)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/k/7/A), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1784](/us/stat/117/1784); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(w)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3131/w), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2184](/us/stat/126/2184); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3146(i)(3)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3146/i/3), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1082](/us/stat/127/1082); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXI, § 3116(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXI/s3116/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3054](/us/stat/136/3054).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 4812 of Pub. L. 107–314](/us/pl/107/314/s4812). Subsec. (c) of [section 4812 of Pub. L. 107–314](/us/pl/107/314/s4812) amended [section 2793 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2793) and was subsequently struck out by [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(w)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3131/w/1), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2184](/us/stat/126/2184). See 2013 Amendment note below.

Section was formerly classified to [section 7257c of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7257c), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 108–136](/us/pl/108/136).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) added subsec. (c).

2013—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(i)(3)(B)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/i/3/B), (C), substituted “Limitation on use of weapons activities funds” for “General limitations” in heading, struck out par. (1) designation, and redesignated par. (2) as subsec. (b).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(i)(3)(A)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/i/3/A), (C), (D), redesignated par. (2) of subsec. (a) as subsec. (b), inserted heading, substituted “defense environmental cleanup” for “environmental restoration, waste management, or nuclear materials and facilities stabilization” and “defense environmental cleanup mission” for “environmental restoration mission, waste management mission, or materials stabilization mission, as the case may be,”, and struck out former subsec. (b) which defined “Laboratory directed research and development”.

[Pub. L. 112–239, § 3131(w)](/us/pl/112/239/s3131/w), redesignated subsec. (e) as (b) and struck out former subsec. (b) which related to a funding limitation in fiscal year 1998 pending submittal of annual report.

Subsecs. (c) to (e). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 3131(w)](/us/pl/112/239/s3131/w), redesignated subsec. (e) as (b) and struck out subsecs. (c) and (d). Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) was omitted and subsec. (d) related to an assessment of funding level for laboratory directed research and development.

2003—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 3141(k)(7)(A)(iv)](/us/pl/108/136/s3141/k/7/A/iv), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 2793(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2793/b).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 3141(k)(7)(A)(v)(II)](/us/pl/108/136/s3141/k/7/A/v/II), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 2791(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2791/c).

[Pub. L. 108–136, § 3141(k)(7)(A)(v)(I)](/us/pl/108/136/s3141/k/7/A/v/I), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 2793(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2793/b/1).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 3141(k)(7)(A)(vi)](/us/pl/108/136/s3141/k/7/A/vi), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 2791(d) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2791/d).
