---
title: "§ 6398. Coordination of migrant education activities"
identifier: "USC-T20-S6398"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section6398"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1308](/us/pl/89/10/tI/s1308), as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101](/us/pl/107/110/tI/s101), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1578](/us/stat/115/1578); amended [Pub. L. 114–95, title I, § 1301(g)](/us/pl/114/95/tI/s1301/g), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 1898](/us/stat/129/1898).)"
---
# § 6398. Coordination of migrant education activities

##### § 6398. Coordination of migrant education activities

(a) Improvement of coordination

(1) In general The Secretary, in consultation with the States, may make grants to, or enter into contracts with, State educational agencies, local educational agencies, institutions of higher education, and other public and private entities to improve the interstate and intrastate coordination among such agencies’ educational programs, including through the establishment or improvement of programs for credit accrual and exchange, available to migratory children.

(2) Duration Grants under this subsection may be awarded for not more than 5 years.

(b) Student records

(1) Assistance The Secretary shall assist States in the electronic transfer of student records and in determining the number of migratory children in each State.

(2) Information system

(A) In general The Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall ensure the linkage of migrant student record systems for the purpose of electronically exchanging, among the States, health and educational information regarding all migratory students eligible under this part. The Secretary shall ensure that such linkage occurs in a cost-effective manner, utilizing systems used by the States prior to, or developed after, December 10, 2015. Such information may include—

(i) immunization records and other health information;

(ii) elementary and secondary academic history (including partial credit), credit accrual, and results from State assessments under [section 6311(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6311/b/2);

(iii) other academic information essential to ensuring that migratory children achieve to the challenging State academic standards; and

(iv) eligibility for services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [[20 U.S.C. 1400](/us/usc/t20/s1400) et seq.].

(B) Consultation The Secretary shall maintain ongoing consultation with the States, local educational agencies, and other migratory student service providers on—

(i) the effectiveness of the system described in subparagraph (A); and

(ii) the ongoing improvement of such system.

(C) Notice and comment After consulting with the States under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register seeking public comment on any new proposed data elements that each State receiving funds under this part shall be required to collect for purposes of electronic transfer of migratory student information and the requirements that States shall meet for immediate electronic access to such information.

(3) No cost for certain transfers A State educational agency or local educational agency receiving assistance under this part shall make student records available to another State educational agency or local educational agency that requests the records at no cost to the requesting agency, if the request is made in order to meet the needs of a migratory child.

(c) Availability of funds For the purpose of carrying out this section in any fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve not more than $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated to carry out this part for such year.

(d) Incentive grants From the amounts made available to carry out this section for any fiscal year, the Secretary may reserve not more than $3,000,000 to award grants of not more than $250,000 on a competitive basis to State educational agencies that propose a consortium arrangement with another State or other appropriate entity that the Secretary determines, pursuant to criteria that the Secretary shall establish, will improve the delivery of services to migratory children whose education is interrupted.

(e) Data collection The Secretary shall direct the National Center for Education Statistics to collect data on migratory children.

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1308](/us/pl/89/10/tI/s1308), as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101](/us/pl/107/110/tI/s101), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1578](/us/stat/115/1578); amended [Pub. L. 114–95, title I, § 1301(g)](/us/pl/114/95/tI/s1301/g), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 1898](/us/stat/129/1898).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(A)(iv), is title VI of [Pub. L. 91–230](/us/pl/91/230), Apr. 13, 1970, [84 Stat. 175](/us/stat/84/175), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1400 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1400) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6398, [Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1308](/us/pl/89/10/tI/s1308), as added [Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101](/us/pl/103/382/tI/s101), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 3590](/us/stat/108/3590), related to coordination of migrant education activities, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110).

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 1301(g)(1)](/us/pl/114/95/s1301/g/1), struck out “nonprofit” before “entities”, inserted “through” after “including”, and substituted “children” for “students”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 1301(g)(2)(A)](/us/pl/114/95/s1301/g/2/A), struck out “developing effective methods for” before “the electronic transfer”.

Subsec. (b)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 1301(g)(2)(B)(i)(I)](/us/pl/114/95/s1301/g/2/B/i/I), added introductory provisions and struck out former introductory provisions which read as follows: “The Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall ensure the linkage of migrant student record systems for the purpose of electronically exchanging, among the States, health and educational information regarding all migratory students. The Secretary shall ensure such linkage occurs in a cost-effective manner, utilizing systems used by the States prior to, or developed after, January 8, 2002, and shall determine the minimum data elements that each State receiving funds under this part shall collect and maintain. Such elements may include—”.

Subsec. (b)(2)(A)(ii). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 1301(g)(2)(B)(i)(II)](/us/pl/114/95/s1301/g/2/B/i/II), substituted “assessments under section 6311(b)(2)” for “assessments required under section 6311(b)”.

Subsec. (b)(2)(A)(iii). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 1301(g)(2)(B)(i)(III)](/us/pl/114/95/s1301/g/2/B/i/III), substituted “the challenging State academic standards” for “high standards”.

Subsec. (b)(2)(B), (C). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 1301(g)(2)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/114/95/s1301/g/2/B/ii)–(iv), added subpar. (B), redesignated former subpar. (B) as (C), and in subpar. (C) substituted “any new proposed data elements” for “the proposed data elements” and struck out at end “Such publication shall occur not later than 120 days after January 8, 2002.”

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 1301(g)(2)(C)](/us/pl/114/95/s1301/g/2/C), struck out par. (4) which related to report to Congress not later than Apr. 30, 2003, on the Secretary’s findings and recommendations regarding the maintenance and transfer of health and educational information for migratory students by the States.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95) effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as a note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
