---
title: "§ 17332. United States exports and outreach programs for India, China, and other countries"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17332"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17332"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 912](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s912), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/121/1726).)"
---
# § 17332. United States exports and outreach programs for India, China, and other countries

##### § 17332. United States exports and outreach programs for India, China, and other countries

(a) Assistance authorized The Secretary of Commerce shall direct the United States and Foreign Commercial Service to expand or create a corps of the Foreign Commercial Service officers to promote United States exports in clean and efficient energy technologies and build the capacity of government officials in India, China, and any other country the Secretary of Commerce determines appropriate, to become more familiar with the available technologies—

(1) by assigning or training Foreign Commercial Service attachés, who have expertise in clean and efficient energy technologies from the United States, to embark on business development and outreach efforts to such countries; and

(2) by deploying the attachés described in paragraph (1) to educate provincial, state, and local government officials in such countries on the variety of United States-based technologies in clean and efficient energy technologies for the purposes of promoting United States exports and reducing global greenhouse gas emissions.

(b) Report The Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual report on the implementation of this section for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

(c) Authorization of appropriations To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 912](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s912), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/121/1726).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
