---
title: "§ 1665h. Inpatient and community-based mental health facilities design, construction, and staffing"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1665h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1665h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 709](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s709), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1665h. Inpatient and community-based mental health facilities design, construction, and staffing

##### § 1665h. Inpatient and community-based mental health facilities design, construction, and staffing

Not later than 1 year after March 23, 2010, the Secretary, acting through the Service, may provide, in each area of the Service, not less than 1 inpatient mental health care facility, or the equivalent, for Indians with behavioral health problems. For the purposes of this subsection,11 So in original. Probably should be “section,”. California shall be considered to be 2 area offices, 1 office whose location shall be considered to encompass the northern area of the State of California and 1 office whose jurisdiction shall be considered to encompass the remainder of the State of California. The Secretary shall consider the possible conversion of existing, underused Service hospital beds into psychiatric units to meet such need.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 709](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s709), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 709 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s709) is based on section 181 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1665h, [Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 709](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s709), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 702(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s702/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4579](/us/stat/106/4579), related to the Pueblo substance abuse treatment project for San Juan Pueblo, New Mexico, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148).
