---
title: "§ 5505. Payments from applicable accounts of House of Representatives"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–186, title I, § 105](/us/pl/104/186/tI/s105), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1721](/us/stat/110/1721).)"
---
# § 5505. Payments from applicable accounts of House of Representatives

##### § 5505. Payments from applicable accounts of House of Representatives

(a) In general No payment may be made from the applicable accounts of the House of Representatives (as determined by the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives), unless sanctioned by that Committee. Payments on vouchers approved in the manner directed by that Committee shall be deemed, held, and taken, and are declared to be conclusive upon all the departments and officers of the Government.

(b) Definitions As used in this section—

(1) the term “applicable accounts of the House of Representatives” means accounts for salaries and expenses of committees (other than the Committee on Appropriations), the computer support organization of the House of Representatives, and allowances and expenses of Members of the House of Representatives, officers of the House of Representatives, and administrative and support offices of the House of Representatives; and

(2) the term “Member of the House of Representatives” means a Representative in, or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

*([Pub. L. 104–186, title I, § 105](/us/pl/104/186/tI/s105), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1721](/us/stat/110/1721).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 95–1 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s95–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is comprised of [section 105 of Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186/s105). Subsec. (c) of [section 105 of Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186/s105) amended former [section 95 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s95).

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in former [section 95 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s95) prior to amendment of that section by [Pub. L. 104–186, title I, § 105(c)](/us/pl/104/186/tI/s105/c), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1722](/us/stat/110/1722).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.
