---
title: "§ 1432. Restrictions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1432"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1432"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–804, § 2](/us/pl/85/804/s2), Aug. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 972](/us/stat/72/972).)"
---
# § 1432. Restrictions

##### § 1432. Restrictions

(a) the use of the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting;

(b) any contract in violation of existing law relating to limitation of profits;

(c) the negotiation of purchases of or contracts for property or services required by law to be procured by formal advertising and competitive bidding;

(d) the waiver of any bid, payment, performance, or other bond required by law;

(e) the amendment of a contract negotiated under section 2304(a)(15) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 10 or under section 252(c)(13) 1 of title 41, to increase the contract price to an amount higher than the lowest rejected bid of any responsible bidder; or

(f) the formalization of an informal commitment, unless it is found that at the time the commitment was made it was impracticable to use normal procurement procedures.

*([Pub. L. 85–804, § 2](/us/pl/85/804/s2), Aug. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 972](/us/stat/72/972).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2304 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2304), referred to in subd. (e), was amended generally by [Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369) and, as so amended, did not contain a subsec. (a)(15). Section 2304 was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII), §§ 1801(d), 1881(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4151](/us/stat/134/4151), 4293, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law.

[Section 252(c)(13) of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s252/c/13), referred to in subd. (e), was renumbered section 252(c)(14) of former Title 41, Public Contracts, by [Pub. L. 85–800, § 2(b)](/us/pl/85/800/s2/b), Aug. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 966](/us/stat/72/966). Subsequently, [Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369) amended section 252 of former Title 41 by striking out subsec. (c), redesignating subsec. (e) as (c)(1), and adding subsec. (c)(2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Nonapplicability of National Emergencies Act

The provisions of the National Emergencies Act [see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1601)] shall not apply to the powers and authorities conferred by this section and actions taken hereunder, see [section 1651(a)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1651/a/4).
