---
title: "§ 1504. Effect on other standards and regulations"
identifier: "USC-T41-S1504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section1504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "41"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3699](/us/stat/124/3699).)"
---
# § 1504. Effect on other standards and regulations

##### § 1504. Effect on other standards and regulations

(a) Previously Existing Standards.— All cost accounting standards, waivers, exemptions, interpretations, modifications, rules, and regulations prescribed by the Cost Accounting Standards Board under section 719 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2168)— 11 See References in Text note below.

(1) remain in effect until amended, superseded, or rescinded by the Board under this chapter; and

(2) are subject to the provisions of this division in the same manner as if prescribed by the Board under this division.

(b) Inconsistent Agency Regulations.— To ensure that a regulation or proposed regulation of an executive agency is not inconsistent with a cost accounting standard prescribed or amended under this chapter, the Administrator, under the authority in sections 1121, 1122(a) to (c)(1), 1125, 1126, 1130, 1131, and 2305 of this title, shall rescind or deny the promulgation of the inconsistent regulation or proposed regulation and take other appropriate action authorized under sections 1121, 1122(a) to (c)(1), 1125, 1126, 1130, 1131, and 2305.

(c) Costs Not Subject to Different Standards.— Costs that are the subject of cost accounting standards prescribed under this chapter are not subject to regulations established by another executive agency that differ from those standards with respect to the measurement, assignment, and allocation of those costs.

*([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3699](/us/stat/124/3699).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1504(a) | 41:422(j)(1), (2). | Pub. L. 93–400, § 26(j), as added Pub. L. 100–679, § 5(a), Nov. 17, 1988, 102 Stat. 4062. |
| 1504(b) | 41:422(j)(3). |  |
| 1504(c) | 41:422(j)(4). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 719 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, referred to in subsec. (a), is section 719 of [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932, title VII](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII), as added [Pub. L. 91–379, title I, § 103](/us/pl/91/379/tI/s103), Aug. 15, 1970, [84 Stat. 796](/us/stat/84/796), which was classified to section 2168 of the former Appendix to Title 50, War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 100–679, § 5(b)](/us/pl/100/679/s5/b), Nov. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 4063](/us/stat/102/4063).
