---
title: "§ 4504. Authority to make payments; purposes"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–164, title VIII, § 805](/us/pl/98/164/tVIII/s805), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1048](/us/stat/97/1048); [Pub. L. 103–199, title III, § 302(6)](/us/pl/103/199/tIII/s302/6), Dec. 17, 1993, [107 Stat. 2323](/us/stat/107/2323).)"
---
# § 4504. Authority to make payments; purposes

##### § 4504. Authority to make payments; purposes

(a) The Secretary of State, after consultation with the Advisory Committee, shall make payments, in accordance with the provisions of this section, out of funds made available to carry out this chapter.

(b)

(1) One part of the payments made in each fiscal year shall be used to conduct a national research program at the postdoctoral or equivalent level, such program to include—

(A) the dissemination of information about the research program and the solicitation of proposals for research contracts from American institutions of higher education and not-for-profit corporations, such contracts to contain shared-cost provisions; and

(B) the awarding of contracts for such research projects as the respective institution determines will best serve to carry out the purposes of this chapter after reviewing proposals submitted under subparagraph (A).

(2) One part of the payments made in each fiscal year shall be used—

(A) to establish and carry out a program of graduate, postdoctoral, and teaching fellowships for advanced training in studies on the countries of Eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union and related studies, such program—

(i) to be coordinated with the research program described in paragraph (1);

(ii) to be conducted, on a shared-cost basis, at American institutions of higher education; and

(iii) to include—

(I) the dissemination of information on the fellowship program and the solicitation of applications for fellowships from qualified institutions of higher education and qualified individuals; and

(II) the awarding of such fellowships as the respective institution determines will best serve to carry out the purposes of this chapter after reviewing applications submitted under subclause (I); and

(B) to disseminate research, data, and findings on studies on the countries of Eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union and related fields in such a manner and to such extent as the respective institution determines will best serve to carry out the purposes of this chapter.

(3) One part of the payments made in each fiscal year shall be used—

(A) to provide fellowship and research support for American specialists in the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe and related fields to conduct advanced research with particular emphasis upon the use of data on those states and countries; and

(B) to conduct seminars, conferences, and other similar workshops designed to facilitate research collaboration between Government and private specialists in the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe and related fields.

(4) One part of the payments made in each fiscal year shall be used to conduct specialized programs in advanced training and research on a reciprocal basis in the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe designed to facilitate access for American specialists to research institutes, personnel, archives, documentation, and other research and training resources located in those states and countries.

(5) One part of the payments made in each fiscal year shall be used to support training in the languages of the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe. Such payments shall include grants to individuals to pursue such training and to summer language institutes operated by institutions of higher education. Preference shall be given for Russian language studies and, as appropriate, studies of other languages of the independent states of the former Soviet Union.

(6) Payments may be made to carry out other research and training in studies on the countries of Eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union not otherwise described in this section.

*([Pub. L. 98–164, title VIII, § 805](/us/pl/98/164/tVIII/s805), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1048](/us/stat/97/1048); [Pub. L. 103–199, title III, § 302(6)](/us/pl/103/199/tIII/s302/6), Dec. 17, 1993, [107 Stat. 2323](/us/stat/107/2323).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—Subsec. (b)(2)(A), (B). [Pub. L. 103–199, § 302(6)(A)](/us/pl/103/199/s302/6/A), substituted “studies on the countries of Eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union” for “Soviet and Eastern European studies”.

Subsec. (b)(3)(A). [Pub. L. 103–199, § 302(6)(B)](/us/pl/103/199/s302/6/B), (C), substituted “independent states of the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe and related fields” for “fields of Soviet and Eastern European studies and related studies” and “those states and countries” for “the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries”.

Subsec. (b)(3)(B). [Pub. L. 103–199, § 302(6)(B)](/us/pl/103/199/s302/6/B), which directed the substitution of “independent states of the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe and related fields” for “fields of Soviet and Eastern European studies and related studies”, was executed by making the substitution for “fields of Soviet and East European studies and related studies”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 103–199, § 302(6)(D)](/us/pl/103/199/s302/6/D), substituted “independent states of the former Soviet Union” for “Union of Soviet Socialist Republics” and “those states and countries” for “the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Eastern European countries”.

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 103–199, § 302(6)(E)](/us/pl/103/199/s302/6/E), substituted “training in the languages of the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe” for “language training in Russian and Eastern European languages” and inserted before period at end “and, as appropriate, studies of other languages of the independent states of the former Soviet Union”.

Subsec. (b)(6). [Pub. L. 103–199, § 302(6)(A)](/us/pl/103/199/s302/6/A), substituted “studies on the countries of Eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union” for “Soviet and Eastern European studies”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

In subsec. (b)(2)–(6), independent states of the former Soviet Union has the meaning given in [section 5801 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5801), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 103–199](/us/pl/103/199/s3), set out as a note under [section 5801 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5801).
