---
title: "§ 15103. Eligibility for consideration for promotion"
identifier: "USC-T10-S15103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section15103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title V, § 514(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tV/s514/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 246](/us/stat/137/246).)"
---
# § 15103. Eligibility for consideration for promotion

##### § 15103. Eligibility for consideration for promotion

(a) In General.— Except as provided by this section, eligibility for promotion of officers in any competitive category of officers designated for purposes of this chapter shall be governed by the provisions of sections 14301, 14303, and 14304 of this title.

(b) Inapplicability of Certain Time-in-grade Requirements.— Sections 14303 and 14304 of this title shall not apply to the promotion of officers described in subsection (a).

(c) Inapplicability to Officers Above and Below Promotion Zone.— The following provisions of this title shall not apply to the promotion of officers described in subsection (a):

(1) The reference in section 14301(b) to an officer above the promotion zone.

(2) Section 14301(d).

(d) Ineligibility of Certain Officers.— The following officers are not eligible for promotion under this chapter:

(1) An officer described in [section 14301(c) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14301/c).

(2) An officer not included within the promotion zone.

(3) An officer who has failed of promotion to a higher grade the maximum number of times specified for opportunities for promotion for such grade within the competitive category concerned pursuant to [section 15104 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s15104).

(4) An officer recommended by a selection board to be removed from consideration for promotion in accordance with [section 15102(c) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s15102/c).

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title V, § 514(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tV/s514/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 246](/us/stat/137/246).)*
