---
title: "§ 70041. Regattas and marine parades"
identifier: "USC-T46-S70041"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section70041"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title IV, § 406(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tIV/s406/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4265](/us/stat/132/4265).)"
---
# § 70041. Regattas and marine parades

##### § 70041. Regattas and marine parades

(a) In General.— The Commandant of the Coast Guard may issue regulations to promote the safety of life on navigable waters during regattas or marine parades.

(b) Detail and Use of Vessels.— To enforce regulations issued under this section—

(1) the Commandant may detail any public vessel in the service of the Coast Guard and make use of any private vessel tendered gratuitously for that purpose; and

(2) upon the request of the Commandant, the head of any other Federal department or agency may enforce the regulations by means of any public vessel of such department and any private vessel tendered gratuitously for that purpose.

(c) Transfer of Authority.— The authority of the Commandant under this section may be transferred by the President for any special occasion to the head of another Federal department or agency whenever in the President’s judgment such transfer is desirable.

(d) Penalties.—

(1) In general.— For any violation of regulations issued pursuant to this section the following penalties shall be incurred:

(A) A licensed officer shall be liable to suspension or revocation of license in the manner prescribed by law for incompetency or misconduct.

(B) Any person in charge of the navigation of a vessel other than a licensed officer shall be liable to a penalty of $5,000.

(C) The owner of a vessel (including any corporate officer of a corporation owning the vessel) actually on board shall be liable to a penalty of $5,000, unless the violation of regulations occurred without the owner’s knowledge.

(D) Any other person shall be liable to a penalty of $2,500.

(2) Mitigation or remission.— The Commandant may mitigate or remit any penalty provided for in this subsection in the manner prescribed by law for the mitigation or remission of penalties for violation of the navigation laws.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title IV, § 406(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tIV/s406/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4265](/us/stat/132/4265).)*
