---
title: "§ 10566. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10566"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10566"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2806](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2806), as added [Pub. L. 106–561, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/106/561/s2/c/1), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2790](/us/stat/114/2790); amended [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title V, § 5001(b)(5)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tV/s5001/b/5), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1814](/us/stat/116/1814); [Pub. L. 114–324, § 9(a)(4)](/us/pl/114/324/s9/a/4), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1955](/us/stat/130/1955).)"
---
# § 10566. Reports

##### § 10566. Reports

(a) Reports to Attorney General For each fiscal year for which a grant is awarded under this subchapter, each State or unit of local government that receives such a grant shall submit to the Attorney General a report, at such time and in such manner as the Attorney General may reasonably require, which report shall include—

(1) a summary and assessment of the program carried out with the grant, which shall include a comparison of pre-grant and post-grant forensic science capabilities;

(2) the average number of days between submission of a sample to a forensic science laboratory or forensic science laboratory system in that State operated by the State or by a unit of local government and the delivery of test results to the requesting office or agency;

(3) an identification of the number and type of cases currently accepted by the laboratory;

(4) the progress of any unaccredited forensic science service provider receiving grant funds toward obtaining accreditation; and

(5) such other information as the Attorney General may require.

(b) Reports to Congress Not later than 90 days after the last day of each fiscal year for which 1 or more grants are awarded under this subchapter, the Attorney General shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate, a report, which shall include—

(1) the aggregate amount of grants awarded under this subchapter for that fiscal year; and

(2) a summary of the information provided under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2806](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2806), as added [Pub. L. 106–561, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/106/561/s2/c/1), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2790](/us/stat/114/2790); amended [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title V, § 5001(b)(5)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tV/s5001/b/5), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1814](/us/stat/116/1814); [Pub. L. 114–324, § 9(a)(4)](/us/pl/114/324/s9/a/4), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1955](/us/stat/130/1955).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 3797*o* of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 114–324](/us/pl/114/324) added par. (4) and redesignated former par. (4) as (5).

2002—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 5001(b)(5)(A)](/us/pl/107/273/s5001/b/5/A), inserted “or unit of local government” after “each State” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 5001(b)(5)(B)](/us/pl/107/273/s5001/b/5/B), inserted “, which shall include a comparison of pre-grant and post-grant forensic science capabilities” before semicolon at end.

Subsec. (a)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 5001(b)(5)(C)](/us/pl/107/273/s5001/b/5/C)–(E), added par. (3) and redesignated former par. (3) as (4).
