---
title: "§ 1310. Authorization of appropriations; maximum amount of payments pursuant to agreements"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–559, § 11](/us/pl/91/559/s11), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/84/1471); [Pub. L. 96–182, § 4](/us/pl/96/182/s4), Jan. 2, 1980, [93 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/93/1317).)"
---
# § 1310. Authorization of appropriations; maximum amount of payments pursuant to agreements

##### § 1310. Authorization of appropriations; maximum amount of payments pursuant to agreements

There are hereby authorized to be appropriated without fiscal year limitation, such sums as may be necessary to carry out the program authorized by this chapter. In carrying out the program, in each fiscal year through the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980, the Secretary shall not enter into agreements with owners and operators which would require payments to owners or operators in any calendar year under such agreements in excess of $10,000,000. In carrying out the program, in each fiscal year after the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980, the Secretary shall not enter into agreements with owners and operators which would require payments to owners or operators in any calendar year under such agreements in excess of $30,000,000. Not more than 15 percent of the funds authorized to be appropriated in any fiscal year after the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980, may be used for agreements entered into with owners or operators in any one State.

*([Pub. L. 91–559, § 11](/us/pl/91/559/s11), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/84/1471); [Pub. L. 96–182, § 4](/us/pl/96/182/s4), Jan. 2, 1980, [93 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/93/1317).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1980—[Pub. L. 96–182](/us/pl/96/182) limited restrictions on Secretary’s authority to enter into agreements in excess of $10,000,000 to each fiscal year through fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 1980, and inserted restrictions relating to agreements in excess of $30,000,000 for each fiscal year after fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 1980, and that not more than 15 percent of the funds authorized to be appropriated in any fiscal year after fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 1980, may be used for agreements entered into with owners or operators in any one State.
