---
title: "§ 3613. Misuse of Agency name, initials, or seal"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3613"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3613"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–36, § 15](/us/pl/86/36/s15), as added [Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/97/89/tVI/s603), Dec. 4, 1981, [95 Stat. 1158](/us/stat/95/1158).)"
---
# § 3613. Misuse of Agency name, initials, or seal

##### § 3613. Misuse of Agency name, initials, or seal

(a) No person may, except with the written permission of the Director of the National Security Agency, knowingly use the words “National Security Agency”, the initials “NSA”, the seal of the National Security Agency, or any colorable imitation of such words, initials, or seal in connection with any merchandise, impersonation, solicitation, or commercial activity in a manner reasonably calculated to convey the impression that such use is approved, endorsed, or authorized by the National Security Agency.

(b) Whenever it appears to the Attorney General that any person is engaged or is about to engage in an act or practice which constitutes or will constitute conduct prohibited by subsection (a), the Attorney General may initiate a civil proceeding in a district court of the United States to enjoin such act or practice. Such court shall proceed as soon as practicable to the hearing and determination of such action and may, at any time before final determination, enter such restraining orders or prohibitions, or take such other action as is warranted, to prevent injury to the United States or to any person or class of persons for whose protection the action is brought.

*([Pub. L. 86–36, § 15](/us/pl/86/36/s15), as added [Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/97/89/tVI/s603), Dec. 4, 1981, [95 Stat. 1158](/us/stat/95/1158).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified in a note under [section 402 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s402) prior to editorial reclassification as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1981, see [section 806 of Pub. L. 97–89](/us/pl/97/89/s806), set out as a note under [section 1621 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1621), Armed Forces.
