---
title: "§ 5463. Encouraging voluntary assistance for Poland and Hungary"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5463"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5463"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–179, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/101/179/tVI/s603), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1319](/us/stat/103/1319).)"
---
# § 5463. Encouraging voluntary assistance for Poland and Hungary

##### § 5463. Encouraging voluntary assistance for Poland and Hungary

(a) Encouraging private contributions It is the sense of the Congress that the President should take all possible steps to encourage across the Nation a massive outpouring of private contributions of money and nonperishable foods, to be collected by civic, religious, school, and youth organizations, for assistance to Poland and to refugees from Romania who are in Hungary.

(b) Transportation to Poland of private contributions In further 11 So in original. Probably should be “furtherance”. of subsection (a), the President—

(1) using all available authorities, including [section 402 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s402) (relating to transportation of humanitarian relief supplies), should use resources of the Department of Defense (including the National Guard) to transport nonfinancial private contributions to Poland,22 So in original. The comma probably should be a semicolon.

(2) should request additional authorities as needed for the use of those resources for that purpose; and

(3) should encourage maximum participation by such recognized private and voluntary organizations as the Polish-American Congress in the transportation of nonfinancial private contributions to Poland.

*([Pub. L. 101–179, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/101/179/tVI/s603), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1319](/us/stat/103/1319).)*
