---
title: "§ 323. Consumer Information Center Fund 11 So in original. Probably should be “Federal Citizen Services Fund”"
identifier: "USC-T40-S323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1077](/us/stat/116/1077); [Pub. L. 111–8, div. D, title V, § 516](/us/pl/111/8/dD/tV/s516), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 664](/us/stat/123/664); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. E, title V, § 527](/us/pl/117/103/dE/tV/s527), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 276](/us/stat/136/276); [Pub. L. 118–182, § 2(a)](/us/pl/118/182/s2/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2623](/us/stat/138/2623).)"
---
# § 323. Consumer Information Center Fund 11 So in original. Probably should be “Federal Citizen Services Fund”

##### § 323. Consumer Information Center Fund 11 So in original. Probably should be “Federal Citizen Services Fund”.

(a) Existence.— There is in the Treasury a Federal Citizen Services Fund, General Services Administration, for the purpose of disseminating Federal Government information to the public and for other related purposes.

(b) Deposits.— Money shall be deposited into the Fund from—

(1) appropriations from the Treasury for Federal Citizen Services activities;

(2) user fees from the public;

(3) reimbursements from other federal agencies for costs of distributing publications; and

(4) any other income incident to Center 22 So in original. See 2009 Amendment notes below. activities.

(c) Expenditures.— Money deposited into the Fund is available for expenditure for Center ^2 activities in amounts specified in appropriation laws. The Fund shall assume all liabilities, obligations, and commitments of the Center ^2 account.

(d) Unobligated Balances.— Any unobligated balances at the end of a fiscal year remain in the Fund and are available for authorization in appropriation laws for subsequent fiscal years.

(e) Gift Account.— The Center ^2 may accept and deposit to this account gifts for purposes of defraying the costs of printing, publishing, and distributing consumer information and educational materials and undertaking other consumer information activities. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made available, the Center ^2 may expend the gifts for these purposes and any balance remains available for expenditure.

(f) The Administrator may enter into agreements with federal agencies to provide services through the Fund on a fully reimbursable basis.

(g) 33 See Delayed Effective Date of Amendment note below. Requirement for Annual Report to Congress.— Not later than September 30 of each year, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report that includes, at a minimum, a list of each program funded by expenditures during the previous fiscal year, or that have been funded by expenditures in the previous 5-year period, including the following:

(1) An explanation of the program.

(2) Information about how the program is funded, including the amount of expenditures the program received in the previous fiscal year and total amount.

(3) The amount of reimbursements associated with or anticipated to be associated with the program from another source of funds or another agency, if applicable.

(4) A description of projects or initiatives associated with the program, including—

(A) information about when the projects or initiatives were initiated and completed; and

(B) funding information, to the extent practicable.

(5) Any additional information, data, or analysis used to determine the information estimated within the report, if applicable.

(h) ^3 Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Administrator.— The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of General Services.

(2) Expenditure.— The term “expenditure” means any obligation of funds from the Fund.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1077](/us/stat/116/1077); [Pub. L. 111–8, div. D, title V, § 516](/us/pl/111/8/dD/tV/s516), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 664](/us/stat/123/664); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. E, title V, § 527](/us/pl/117/103/dE/tV/s527), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 276](/us/stat/136/276); [Pub. L. 118–182, § 2(a)](/us/pl/118/182/s2/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2623](/us/stat/138/2623).)*

In this section, the text of 40:761 (6th–last sentences) is omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (a), the words “Notwithstanding any other provision of law” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), the words “for fiscal year 1983 and subsequent fiscal years” are omitted as obsolete and unnecessary.

In subsection (e), the words “Notwithstanding any other provision of law” and “during fiscal year 1998 and hereafter” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 323(a)–(d) | 40:761. | Pub. L. 98–63, title I, § 101 (1st–9th sentences in par. under heading “Consumer Information Center Fund”), July 30, 1983, 97 Stat. 321. |
| 323(e) | 40:761a. | Pub. L. 105–65, title III, (last proviso in par. under heading “Consumer Information Center Fund”), Oct. 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 1377. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsecs. (g), (h). [Pub. L. 118–182](/us/pl/118/182) added subsecs. (g) and (h).

2022—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) added subsec. (f).

2009—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–8](/us/pl/111/8) substituted “Federal Citizen Services” for “Consumer Information Center” and struck out “consumer” after “Federal Government”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 111–8](/us/pl/111/8) substituted “Federal Citizen Services” for “Consumer Information Center”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2024 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 118–182](/us/pl/118/182) effective on the commencement of the first fiscal year after Dec. 23, 2024, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 118–182](/us/pl/118/182/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 321 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s321).
