---
title: "§ 10241. General authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10241"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10241"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5575](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5575), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3369](/us/stat/136/3369).)"
---
# § 10241. General authorization of appropriations

##### § 10241. General authorization of appropriations

(1) programs to strengthen federalism in and among ethnic states in Burma, including for non-lethal assistance for Ethnic Armed Organizations in Burma;

(2) the administrative operations and programs of entities in Burma, including the political entities and affiliates of Ethnic Armed Organizations and pro-democracy movement organizations, that support efforts to establish an inclusive and representative democracy in Burma;

(3) technical support and non-lethal assistance for Burma’s Ethnic Armed Organizations, People’s Defense Forces, and pro-democracy movement organizations to strengthen communications and command and control, and coordination of international relief and other operations between and among such entities;

(4) programs and activities relating to former members of the Burmese military that have condemned the February 1, 2022, coup d’etat and voiced support for the restoration of civilian rule;

(5) programs to assist civil society organizations to investigate and document atrocities in Burma for the purposes of truth, justice, and accountability;

(6) programs to assist civil society organizations in Burma that support individuals that who are unlawfully detained in Burma for exercising their fundamental freedoms; and

(7) programs to assist civil society organizations and ethnic groups with reconciliation activities related to Burma.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5575](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5575), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3369](/us/stat/136/3369).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424). Chapter 4 of part II of the Act is classified generally to part IV (§ 2346 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 32 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.
