---
title: "§ 300hh–32. Enhanced support to assist health departments in addressing vector-borne diseases"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300hh–32"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300hh–32"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVIII, § 2822, as added [Pub. L. 116–94, div. N, title I, § 404(c)](/us/pl/116/94/dN/tI/s404/c), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3118](/us/stat/133/3118).)"
---
# § 300hh–32. Enhanced support to assist health departments in addressing vector-borne diseases

##### § 300hh–32. Enhanced support to assist health departments in addressing vector-borne diseases

(a) In general The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may enter into cooperative agreements with health departments of States, political subdivisions of States, and Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations in areas at high risk of vector-borne diseases in order to increase capacity to identify, report, prevent, and respond to such diseases and related outbreaks.

(b) Eligibility To be eligible to enter into a cooperative agreement under this section, an entity described in subsection (a) shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a plan that describes—

(1) how the applicant proposes to develop or expand programs to address vector-borne disease risks, including through—

(A) related training and workforce development;

(B) programmatic efforts to improve capacity to identify, report, prevent, and respond to such disease and related outbreaks; and

(C) other relevant activities identified by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as appropriate;

(2) the manner in which the applicant will coordinate with other Federal, Tribal, and State agencies and programs, as applicable, related to vector-borne diseases, as well as other relevant public and private organizations or agencies; and

(3) the manner in which the applicant will evaluate the effectiveness of any program carried out under the cooperative agreement.

(c) Authorization of appropriations For the purposes of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVIII, § 2822, as added [Pub. L. 116–94, div. N, title I, § 404(c)](/us/pl/116/94/dN/tI/s404/c), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3118](/us/stat/133/3118).)*
