---
title: "§ 1452. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1452"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1452"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–262, § 3](/us/pl/93/262/s3), Apr. 12, 1974, [88 Stat. 77](/us/stat/88/77); [Pub. L. 100–442, § 5(b)](/us/pl/100/442/s5/b), Sept. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 1764](/us/stat/102/1764).)"
---
# § 1452. Definitions

##### § 1452. Definitions

(a) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(b) “Indian” means any person who is a member of any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community which is recognized by the Federal Government as eligible for services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs and any “Native” as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [[43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.].

(c) “Tribe” means any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community, including Native villages and Native groups (including corporations organized by Kenai, Juneau, Sitka, and Kodiak) as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [[43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.], which is recognized by the Federal Government as eligible for services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

(d) “Reservation” includes Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, former Indian reservations in Oklahoma, and land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [[43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.].

(e) “Economic enterprise” means any Indian-owned (as defined by the Secretary of the Interior) commercial, industrial, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit: *Provided*, That such Indian ownership shall constitute not less than 51 per centum of the enterprise.

(f) “Organization”, unless otherwise specified, shall be the governing body of any Indian tribe, as defined in subsection (c), or entity established or recognized by such governing body for the purpose of this chapter.

(g) “Other organizations” means any non-Indian individual, firm, corporation, partnership, or association.

(h) “Surety” has the same meaning as in [section 694a of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s694a).

(i) “Surety Bond” means a bid bond, payment bond, or performance bond as those terms are defined in [section 694a of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s694a).

*([Pub. L. 93–262, § 3](/us/pl/93/262/s3), Apr. 12, 1974, [88 Stat. 77](/us/stat/88/77); [Pub. L. 100–442, § 5(b)](/us/pl/100/442/s5/b), Sept. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 1764](/us/stat/102/1764).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in pars. (b) to (d), is [Pub. L. 92–203](/us/pl/92/203), Dec. 18, 1971, [85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1601) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1988—Pars. (h), (i). [Pub. L. 100–442](/us/pl/100/442) added pars. (h) and (i).
