---
title: "§ 426e–1. Shore protection projects"
identifier: "USC-T33-S426e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section426e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–114, title II, § 2018](/us/pl/110/114/tII/s2018), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1077](/us/stat/121/1077).)"
---
# § 426e–1. Shore protection projects

##### § 426e–1. Shore protection projects

(a) In general In accordance with the Act of July 3, 1930 ([33 U.S.C. 426](/us/usc/t33/s426)) of this title, and notwithstanding administrative actions, it is the policy of the United States to promote beach nourishment for the purposes of flood damage reduction and hurricane and storm damage reduction and related research that encourage the protection, restoration, and enhancement of sandy beaches, including beach restoration and periodic beach renourishment for a period of 50 years, on a comprehensive and coordinated basis by the Federal Government, States, localities, and private enterprises.

(b) Preference In carrying out the policy under subsection (a), preference shall be given to—

(1) areas in which there has been a Federal investment of funds for the purposes described in subsection (a); and

(2) areas with respect to which the need for prevention or mitigation of damage to shores and beaches is attributable to Federal navigation projects or other Federal activities.

(c) Applicability The Secretary shall apply the policy under subsection (a) to each shore protection and beach renourishment project (including shore protection and beach renourishment projects constructed before November 8, 2007).

*([Pub. L. 110–114, title II, § 2018](/us/pl/110/114/tII/s2018), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1077](/us/stat/121/1077).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of July 3, 1930, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act July 3, 1930, ch. 847](/us/act/1930-07-03/ch847), [46 Stat. 918](/us/stat/46/918). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 110–114](/us/pl/110/114/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
