---
title: "§ 12463. Saving money and reducing tragedies through prevention (SMART Prevention)"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12463"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12463"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41303](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41303), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/109/162/tIV/s401), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3018](/us/stat/119/3018); amended [Pub. L. 113–4, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/113/4/tIV/s402/a), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 92](/us/stat/127/92); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tIV/s402), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 869](/us/stat/136/869).)"
---
# § 12463. Saving money and reducing tragedies through prevention (SMART Prevention)

##### § 12463. Saving money and reducing tragedies through prevention (SMART Prevention)

(a) Grants authorized The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of Education, is authorized to award grants for the purpose of preventing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by focusing on men and youth as leaders and influencers of social norms.

(b) Use of funds Funds provided under this section may be used to develop, maintain or enhance programs that work with men and youth to prevent domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by helping men and youth to serve as role models and social influencers of other men and youth at the individual, school, community or statewide levels.

(c) Eligible entities To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall be—

(1) a victim service provider, community-based organization, tribe or tribal organization, or other non-profit, nongovernmental organization that has a history of effective work preventing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking and expertise in the specific area for which they are applying for funds; or

(2) a partnership between a victim service provider, community-based organization, tribe or tribal organization, or other non-profit, nongovernmental organization that has a history of effective work preventing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking and at least one of the following that has expertise in serving children exposed to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, youth domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking prevention, or engaging men to prevent domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking:

(A) A public, charter, tribal, or nationally accredited private middle or high school, a school administered by the Department of Defense under [section 2164 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2164) or [section 921 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s921), a group of schools, or a school district.

(B) A local community-based organization, population-specific organization, or faith-based organization that has established expertise in providing services to youth.

(C) A community-based organization, population-specific organization, university or health care clinic, faith-based organization, or other non-profit, nongovernmental organization with a demonstrated history of effective work addressing the needs of children exposed to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

(D) A nonprofit, nongovernmental entity providing services for runaway or homeless youth affected by domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

(E) Healthcare entities eligible for reimbursement under title XVIII of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1395](/us/usc/t42/s1395) et seq.], including providers that target the special needs of children and youth.

(F) Any other agencies, population-specific organizations, or nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations with the capacity to provide necessary expertise to meet the goals of the program; or

(3) a public, charter, tribal, or nationally accredited private middle or high school, a school administered by the Department of Defense under [section 2164 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2164) or [section 921 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s921), a group of schools, a school district, or an institution of higher education.

(d) Grantee requirements

(1) In general Applicants for grants under this section shall prepare and submit to the Director an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require that demonstrates the capacity of the applicant and partnering organizations to undertake the project.

(2) Policies and procedures Applicants under this section shall establish and implement policies, practices, and procedures that—

(A) include appropriate referral systems to direct any victim identified during program activities to highly qualified follow-up care;

(B) protect the confidentiality and privacy of adult and youth victim information, particularly in the context of parental or third party involvement and consent, mandatory reporting duties, and working with other service providers;

(C) ensure that all individuals providing prevention programming through a program funded under this section have completed or will complete sufficient training in connection with domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault or stalking; and

(D) document how prevention programs are coordinated with service programs in the community.

(3) Preference In selecting grant recipients under this section, the Attorney General shall give preference to applicants that—

(A) include outcome-based evaluation;

(B) identify any other community, school, or State-based efforts that are working on domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking prevention and explain how the grantee or partnership will add value, coordinate with other programs, and not duplicate existing efforts; and

(C) include a focus on the unmet needs of underserved populations.

(e) Definitions and grant conditions In this section, the definitions and grant conditions provided for in [section 12291 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12291) shall apply.

(f) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027. Amounts appropriated under this section may only be used for programs and activities described under this section.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41303](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41303), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/109/162/tIV/s401), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3018](/us/stat/119/3018); amended [Pub. L. 113–4, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/113/4/tIV/s402/a), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 92](/us/stat/127/92); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tIV/s402), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 869](/us/stat/136/869).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(E), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Title XVIII of the Act is classified generally to subchapter XVIII (§ 1395 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14043d–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14043d–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 402(1)](/us/pl/117/103/s402/1), substituted “focusing on men and youth” for “taking a comprehensive approach that focuses on youth, children exposed to violence, and men”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 402(2)](/us/pl/117/103/s402/2), struck out “for the following purposes:” after “may be used”, pars. (1) and (2), and par. (3) designation and heading, substituted “to develop” for “To develop”, and inserted “and youth” after “with men” and “helping men”. Prior to amendment, pars. (1) and (2) related to teen dating violence awareness and prevention and children exposed to violence and abuse, respectively.

Subsec. (d)(3)(C). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 402(3)](/us/pl/117/103/s402/3), added subpar. (C).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 402(4)](/us/pl/117/103/s402/4), substituted “$20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027” for “$15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 402(5)](/us/pl/117/103/s402/5), struck out subsec. (g) which related to allotment of amounts appropriated under this section.

2013—[Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to grants to assist children and youth exposed to violence.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4/s4), set out as a note under [section 2261 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2261), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
