---
title: "§ 410cc–36. Staff of Commission"
identifier: "USC-T16-S410cc–36"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section410cc–36"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–290, title III, § 306](/us/pl/95/290/tIII/s306), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 303](/us/stat/92/303).)"
---
# § 410cc–36. Staff of Commission

##### § 410cc–36. Staff of Commission

(a) Appointment and compensation of Director The Commission shall have a Director who shall be appointed by the Commission and who shall be paid at a rate not to exceed the rate of pay payable for grade GS–15 of the General Schedule.

(b) Appointment and compensation of additional personnel The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of such additional personnel as the Commission deems desirable.

(c) Applicability of civil service provisions to appointment and compensation of Director and staff The Director and staff of the Commission may be appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51, and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that no individual so appointed may receive pay in excess of the annual rate of basic pay payable for grade GS–15 of the General Schedule.

(d) Temporary or intermittent services; procurement and compensation Subject to such rules as may be adopted by the Commission, the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by [section 3109(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109/b), but at rates determined by the Commission to be reasonable.

(e) Detail of personnel from other Federal agencies represented by members on Commission; reimbursement by Commission; administrative support services by Administrator of General Services Administration; reimbursement by Commission

(1) Upon request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency represented by members on the Commission may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this subchapter.

(2) The Administrator of the General Services Administration shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis such administrative support services as the Commission may request.

*([Pub. L. 95–290, title III, § 306](/us/pl/95/290/tIII/s306), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 303](/us/stat/92/303).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

GS–15 of the General Schedule, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.
