---
title: "§ 5552. Lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued leave on entering active duty; election"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5552"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5552"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 489](/us/stat/80/489).)"
---
# § 5552. Lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued leave on entering active duty; election

##### § 5552. Lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued leave on entering active duty; election

(1) receive, in addition to his pay and allowances from the armed forces, a lump-sum payment for accumulated and current accrued annual or vacation leave in accordance with [section 5551 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5551); or

(2) elect to have the leave remain to his credit until his return from active duty.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 489](/us/stat/80/489).)*

The words “An employee as defined by [section 2105 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s2105)” are coextensive with and substituted for “Employees of the United States Government, . . . (including employees of any corporation created under authority of an Act of Congress which is either wholly controlled or wholly owned by the United States Government, or any corporation, all the stock of which is owned or controlled by the United States Government, or any department, agency, or establishment thereof, whether or not the employees thereof are paid from funds appropriated by Congress)”.

The words “subsequent to May 1, 1940” are omitted as obsolete. The words “active duty in the armed forces” and “active duty” are substituted for “active military or naval service in the land or naval forces of the United States” and “active military or naval service”, respectively, on authority of the National Security Act of 1947, [61 Stat. 495](/us/stat/61/495), as amended. The words “by voluntary enlistment or otherwise” are omitted as unnecessary.

In paragraph (1), the words “in accordance with [section 5551 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5551)” are added on authority of former section 61b, which is carried into section 5551.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 61a. | Aug. 1, 1941, ch. 348, 55 Stat. 616.Apr. 7, 1942, ch. 220, 56 Stat. 200. |
