---
title: "§ 1106. Reports to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T33-S1106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section1106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–454, title I, § 7](/us/pl/89/454/tI/s7), June 17, 1966, [80 Stat. 207](/us/stat/80/207); [Pub. L. 99–386, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/99/386/tII/s203/a), Aug. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 823](/us/stat/100/823).)"
---
# § 1106. Reports to Congress

##### § 1106. Reports to Congress

(a) The President shall transmit to the Congress biennially in January a report, which shall include (1) a comprehensive description of the activities and the accomplishments of all agencies and departments of the United States in the field of marine science during the preceding fiscal year, and (2) an evaluation of such activities and accomplishments in terms of the objectives set forth pursuant to this Act.

(b) Reports made under this section shall contain such recommendations for legislation as the President may consider necessary or desirable for the attainment of the objectives of this Act, and shall contain an estimate of funding requirements of each agency and department of the United States for marine science activities during the succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 89–454, title I, § 7](/us/pl/89/454/tI/s7), June 17, 1966, [80 Stat. 207](/us/stat/80/207); [Pub. L. 99–386, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/99/386/tII/s203/a), Aug. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 823](/us/stat/100/823).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 89–454](/us/pl/89/454), June 17, 1966, [80 Stat. 203](/us/stat/80/203), which, at the time this section was enacted, consisted only of sections 1 to 9, which are classified generally to this subchapter. [Pub. L. 89–688, § 2](/us/pl/89/688/s2), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 1001](/us/stat/80/1001), redesignated the Act as title I and made conforming amendments, substituting references to title I for previous references to the Act as a whole, but not in this section. [Pub. L. 89–454](/us/pl/89/454) was amended by [Pub. L. 89–688](/us/pl/89/688) by adding title II, which is classified generally to subchapter II of this chapter, and later by [Pub. L. 92–583](/us/pl/92/583) by adding title III, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1451 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

1986—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–386](/us/pl/99/386) substituted “biennially in January” for “in January of each year”.
