---
title: "§ 16161e. Laboratory management"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16161e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16161e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title VIII, § 817](/us/pl/109/58/tVIII/s817), as added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title III, § 40314(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tIII/s40314/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1014](/us/stat/135/1014).)"
---
# § 16161e. Laboratory management

##### § 16161e. Laboratory management

(a) In general The National Energy Technology Laboratory, the Idaho National Laboratory, and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory shall continue to work in a crosscutting manner to carry out the programs established under sections 16161a and 16161c of this title.

(b) Coordination; clearinghouse In carrying out subsection (a), the National Energy Technology Laboratory shall—

(1) coordinate with—

(A) the Idaho National Laboratory, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, and other National Laboratories in a cross-cutting manner;

(B) institutions of higher education;

(C) research institutes;

(D) industrial researchers; and

(E) international researchers; and

(2) act as a clearinghouse to collect information from, and distribute information to, the National Laboratories and other entities described in subparagraphs (B) through (E) of paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title VIII, § 817](/us/pl/109/58/tVIII/s817), as added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title III, § 40314(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tIII/s40314/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1014](/us/stat/135/1014).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), including authority of Secretary of Labor, see [section 18851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18851).
