---
title: "§ 12421. Training and services to end abuse in later life"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12421"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12421"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40801](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40801), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title II, § 1209(a)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tII/s1209/a), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1508](/us/stat/114/1508); amended [Pub. L. 113–4, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/113/4/tII/s204/a), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 82](/us/stat/127/82); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title II, § 204(2)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tII/s204/2), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 857](/us/stat/136/857).)"
---
# § 12421. Training and services to end abuse in later life

##### § 12421. Training and services to end abuse in later life

(1) Mandatory and permissible activities

(A) Mandatory activities An eligible entity receiving a grant under this section shall use the funds received under the grant to—

(i) provide training programs to assist law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, agencies of States or units of local government, population specific organizations, victim service providers, victim advocates, or relevant officers in Federal, tribal, State, territorial, and local courts in recognizing and addressing instances of abuse in later life;

(ii) provide or enhance services for victims of abuse in later life;

(iii) establish or support multidisciplinary collaborative community responses to victims of abuse in later life; and

(iv) conduct cross-training for law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, agencies of States or units of local government, attorneys, health care providers, population specific organizations, faith-based leaders, victim advocates, victim service providers, courts, and first responders to better serve older victims.

(B) Permissible activities An eligible entity receiving a grant under this section may use the funds received under the grant to—

(i) provide training programs to assist attorneys, health care providers, faith-based leaders, community-based organizations, or other professionals who may identify or respond to abuse in later life; or

(ii) conduct outreach activities and awareness campaigns to ensure that victims of abuse in later life receive appropriate assistance.

(C) Waiver The Attorney General may waive 1 or more of the activities described in subparagraph (A) upon making a determination that the activity would duplicate services available in the community.

(D) Limitation An eligible entity receiving a grant under this section may use not more than 10 percent of the total funds received under the grant for an activity described in subparagraph (B)(ii).

(2) Eligible entities An entity shall be eligible to receive a grant under this section if—

(A) the entity is—

(i) a State;

(ii) a unit of local government;

(iii) a tribal government or tribal organization;

(iv) a population specific organization;

(v) a victim service provider; or

(vi) a State, tribal, or territorial domestic violence or sexual assault coalition; and

(B) the entity demonstrates that it is part of a multidisciplinary partnership that includes, at a minimum—

(i) a law enforcement agency;

(ii) a prosecutor’s office;

(iii) a victim service provider; and

(iv) a nonprofit program or government agency with demonstrated experience in assisting individuals 50 years of age or over.

(3) Underserved populations In making grants under this section, the Attorney General shall give priority to proposals providing services to culturally specific and underserved populations.

(4) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40801](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40801), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title II, § 1209(a)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tII/s1209/a), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1508](/us/stat/114/1508); amended [Pub. L. 113–4, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/113/4/tII/s204/a), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 82](/us/stat/127/82); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title II, § 204(2)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tII/s204/2), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 857](/us/stat/136/857).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14041 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14041), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/B), (C)(i), (ii), inserted introductory provisions, struck out subsec. (a) which defined “exploitation”, “later life”, and “neglect”, struck out subsec. (b) designation and heading and text of par. (1) of former subsec. (b) which authorized the Attorney General to make grants to eligible entities, and redesignated pars. (2) to (5) of former subsec. (b) as pars. (1) to (4).

[Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(A)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/A), substituted “Training” for “Enhanced training” in section catchline.

Par. (1). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(iii)(I)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/iii/I), struck out “, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, exploitation, and neglect” after “life” wherever appearing.

Par. (1)(A)(i). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(iii)(II)(aa)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/iii/II/aa), substituted “victim advocates, or” for “victim advocates, and” and “abuse in later life” for “elder abuse”.

Par. (1)(A)(iv). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(iii)(II)(bb)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/iii/II/bb), substituted “leaders, victim advocates, victim service providers, courts, and first responders to better serve older victims” for “advocates, victim service providers, and courts to better serve victims of abuse in later life”.

Par. (1)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(iii)(III)(aa)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/iii/III/aa), substituted “community-based organizations, or other professionals who may identify or respond to abuse in later life” for “or other community-based organizations in recognizing and addressing instances of abuse in later life”.

Par. (1)(B)(ii). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(iii)(III)(bb)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/iii/III/bb), which directed amendment of cl. (ii) by striking “elder abuse and”, could not be executed because the words “elder abuse and” did not appear in text.

Par. (2)(A)(iv). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(iv)(I)(aa)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/iv/I/aa), struck out “with demonstrated experience in assisting individuals over 50 years of age” after “organization”.

Par. (2)(A)(v). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(iv)(I)(bb)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/iv/I/bb), struck out “with demonstrated experience in addressing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking” after “provider”.

Par. (2)(B)(iv). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(iv)(II)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/iv/II), substituted “50 years of age or over.” for “in later life;”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 204(2)(C)(v)](/us/pl/117/103/s204/2/C/v), substituted “$10,000,000” for “$9,000,000” and “2023 through 2027” for “2014 through 2018”.

2013—[Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section defined terms for this part.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4/s4), set out as a note under [section 2261 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2261), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
