---
title: "§ 1225. Inspection by immigration officers; expedited removal of inadmissible arriving aliens; referral for hearing"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1225"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1225"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([June 27, 1952, ch. 477](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477), title II, ch. 4, § 235, [66 Stat. 198](/us/stat/66/198); [Pub. L. 101–649, title VI, § 603(a)(11)](/us/pl/101/649/tVI/s603/a/11), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 5083](/us/stat/104/5083); [Pub. L. 104–132, title IV](/us/pl/104/132/tIV), §§ 422(a), 423(b), Apr. 24, 1996, [110 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/110/1270), 1272; [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII), §§ 302(a), 308(d)(5), 371(b)(4), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–579](/us/sta"
---
# § 1225. Inspection by immigration officers; expedited removal of inadmissible arriving aliens; referral for hearing

##### § 1225. Inspection by immigration officers; expedited removal of inadmissible arriving aliens; referral for hearing

(a) Inspection

(1) Aliens treated as applicants for admission An alien present in the United States who has not been admitted or who arrives in the United States (whether or not at a designated port of arrival and including an alien who is brought to the United States after having been interdicted in international or United States waters) shall be deemed for purposes of this chapter an applicant for admission.

(2) Stowaways An arriving alien who is a stowaway is not eligible to apply for admission or to be admitted and shall be ordered removed upon inspection by an immigration officer. Upon such inspection if the alien indicates an intention to apply for asylum under [section 1158 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1158) or a fear of persecution, the officer shall refer the alien for an interview under subsection (b)(1)(B). A stowaway may apply for asylum only if the stowaway is found to have a credible fear of persecution under subsection (b)(1)(B). In no case may a stowaway be considered an applicant for admission or eligible for a hearing under [section 1229a of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1229a).

(3) Inspection All aliens (including alien crewmen) who are applicants for admission or otherwise seeking admission or readmission to or transit through the United States shall be inspected by immigration officers.

(4) Withdrawal of application for admission An alien applying for admission may, in the discretion of the Attorney General and at any time, be permitted to withdraw the application for admission and depart immediately from the United States.

(5) Statements An applicant for admission may be required to state under oath any information sought by an immigration officer regarding the purposes and intentions of the applicant in seeking admission to the United States, including the applicant’s intended length of stay and whether the applicant intends to remain permanently or become a United States citizen, and whether the applicant is inadmissible.

(b) Inspection of applicants for admission

(1) Inspection of aliens arriving in the United States and certain other aliens who have not been admitted or paroled

(A) Screening

(i) In general If an immigration officer determines that an alien (other than an alien described in subparagraph (F)) who is arriving in the United States or is described in clause (iii) is inadmissible under section 1182(a)(6)(C) or 1182(a)(7) of this title, the officer shall order the alien removed from the United States without further hearing or review unless the alien indicates either an intention to apply for asylum under [section 1158 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1158) or a fear of persecution.

(ii) Claims for asylum If an immigration officer determines that an alien (other than an alien described in subparagraph (F)) who is arriving in the United States or is described in clause (iii) is inadmissible under section 1182(a)(6)(C) or 1182(a)(7) of this title and the alien indicates either an intention to apply for asylum under [section 1158 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1158) or a fear of persecution, the officer shall refer the alien for an interview by an asylum officer under subparagraph (B).

(iii) Application to certain other aliens

(I) In general The Attorney General may apply clauses (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph to any or all aliens described in subclause (II) as designated by the Attorney General. Such designation shall be in the sole and unreviewable discretion of the Attorney General and may be modified at any time.

(II) Aliens described An alien described in this clause is an alien who is not described in subparagraph (F), who has not been admitted or paroled into the United States, and who has not affirmatively shown, to the satisfaction of an immigration officer, that the alien has been physically present in the United States continuously for the 2-year period immediately prior to the date of the determination of inadmissibility under this subparagraph.

(B) Asylum interviews

(i) Conduct by asylum officers An asylum officer shall conduct interviews of aliens referred under subparagraph (A)(ii), either at a port of entry or at such other place designated by the Attorney General.

(ii) Referral of certain aliens If the officer determines at the time of the interview that an alien has a credible fear of persecution (within the meaning of clause (v)), the alien shall be detained for further consideration of the application for asylum.

(iii) Removal without further review if no credible fear of persecution

(I) In general Subject to subclause (III), if the officer determines that an alien does not have a credible fear of persecution, the officer shall order the alien removed from the United States without further hearing or review.

(II) Record of determination The officer shall prepare a written record of a determination under subclause (I). Such record shall include a summary of the material facts as stated by the applicant, such additional facts (if any) relied upon by the officer, and the officer’s analysis of why, in the light of such facts, the alien has not established a credible fear of persecution. A copy of the officer’s interview notes shall be attached to the written summary.

(III) Review of determination The Attorney General shall provide by regulation and upon the alien’s request for prompt review by an immigration judge of a determination under subclause (I) that the alien does not have a credible fear of persecution. Such review shall include an opportunity for the alien to be heard and questioned by the immigration judge, either in person or by telephonic or video connection. Review shall be concluded as expeditiously as possible, to the maximum extent practicable within 24 hours, but in no case later than 7 days after the date of the determination under subclause (I).

(IV) Mandatory detention Any alien subject to the procedures under this clause shall be detained pending a final determination of credible fear of persecution and, if found not to have such a fear, until removed.

(iv) Information about interviews The Attorney General shall provide information concerning the asylum interview described in this subparagraph to aliens who may be eligible. An alien who is eligible for such interview may consult with a person or persons of the alien’s choosing prior to the interview or any review thereof, according to regulations prescribed by the Attorney General. Such consultation shall be at no expense to the Government and shall not unreasonably delay the process.

(v) “Credible fear of persecution” defined For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “credible fear of persecution” means that there is a significant possibility, taking into account the credibility of the statements made by the alien in support of the alien’s claim and such other facts as are known to the officer, that the alien could establish eligibility for asylum under [section 1158 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1158).

(C) Limitation on administrative review Except as provided in subparagraph (B)(iii)(III), a removal order entered in accordance with subparagraph (A)(i) or (B)(iii)(I) is not subject to administrative appeal, except that the Attorney General shall provide by regulation for prompt review of such an order under subparagraph (A)(i) against an alien who claims under oath, or as permitted under penalty of perjury under [section 1746 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1746), after having been warned of the penalties for falsely making such claim under such conditions, to have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence, to have been admitted as a refugee under [section 1157 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1157), or to have been granted asylum under [section 1158 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1158).

(D) Limit on collateral attacks In any action brought against an alien under [section 1325(a) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1325/a) or [section 1326 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1326), the court shall not have jurisdiction to hear any claim attacking the validity of an order of removal entered under subparagraph (A)(i) or (B)(iii).

(E) “Asylum officer” defined As used in this paragraph, the term “asylum officer” means an immigration officer who—

(i) has had professional training in country conditions, asylum law, and interview techniques comparable to that provided to full-time adjudicators of applications under [section 1158 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1158), and

(ii) is supervised by an officer who meets the condition described in clause (i) and has had substantial experience adjudicating asylum applications.

(F) Exception Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to an alien who is a native or citizen of a country in the Western Hemisphere with whose government the United States does not have full diplomatic relations and who arrives by aircraft at a port of entry.

(G) Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to authorize or require any person described in [section 1158(e) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1158/e) to be permitted to apply for asylum under [section 1158 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1158) at any time before January 1, 2014.

(2) Inspection of other aliens

(A) In general Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), in the case of an alien who is an applicant for admission, if the examining immigration officer determines that an alien seeking admission is not clearly and beyond a doubt entitled to be admitted, the alien shall be detained for a proceeding under [section 1229a of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1229a).

(B) Exception Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to an alien—

(i) who is a crewman,

(ii) to whom paragraph (1) applies, or

(iii) who is a stowaway.

(C) Treatment of aliens arriving from contiguous territory In the case of an alien described in subparagraph (A) who is arriving on land (whether or not at a designated port of arrival) from a foreign territory contiguous to the United States, the Attorney General may return the alien to that territory pending a proceeding under [section 1229a of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1229a).

(3) Enforcement by attorney general of a state The attorney general of a State, or other authorized State officer, alleging a violation of the detention and removal requirements under paragraph (1) or (2) that harms such State or its residents shall have standing to bring an action against the Secretary of Homeland Security on behalf of such State or the residents of such State in an appropriate district court of the United States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. The court shall advance on the docket and expedite the disposition of a civil action filed under this paragraph to the greatest extent practicable. For purposes of this paragraph, a State or its residents shall be considered to have been harmed if the State or its residents experience harm, including financial harm in excess of $100.

(4) Challenge of decision The decision of the examining immigration officer, if favorable to the admission of any alien, shall be subject to challenge by any other immigration officer and such challenge shall operate to take the alien whose privilege to be admitted is so challenged, before an immigration judge for a proceeding under [section 1229a of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1229a).

(c) Removal of aliens inadmissible on security and related grounds

(1) Removal without further hearing If an immigration officer or an immigration judge suspects that an arriving alien may be inadmissible under subparagraph (A) (other than clause (ii)), (B), or (C) of [section 1182(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1182/a/3), the officer or judge shall—

(A) order the alien removed, subject to review under paragraph (2);

(B) report the order of removal to the Attorney General; and

(C) not conduct any further inquiry or hearing until ordered by the Attorney General.

(2) Review of order

(A) The Attorney General shall review orders issued under paragraph (1).

(B) If the Attorney General—

the Attorney General may order the alien removed without further inquiry or hearing by an immigration judge.

(i) is satisfied on the basis of confidential information that the alien is inadmissible under subparagraph (A) (other than clause (ii)), (B), or (C) of [section 1182(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1182/a/3), and

(ii) after consulting with appropriate security agencies of the United States Government, concludes that disclosure of the information would be prejudicial to the public interest, safety, or security,

(C) If the Attorney General does not order the removal of the alien under subparagraph (B), the Attorney General shall specify the further inquiry or hearing that shall be conducted in the case.

(3) Submission of statement and information The alien or the alien’s representative may submit a written statement and additional information for consideration by the Attorney General.

(d) Authority relating to inspections

(1) Authority to search conveyances Immigration officers are authorized to board and search any vessel, aircraft, railway car, or other conveyance or vehicle in which they believe aliens are being brought into the United States.

(2) Authority to order detention and delivery of arriving aliens Immigration officers are authorized to order an owner, agent, master, commanding officer, person in charge, purser, or consignee of a vessel or aircraft bringing an alien (except an alien crewmember) to the United States—

(A) to detain the alien on the vessel or at the airport of arrival, and

(B) to deliver the alien to an immigration officer for inspection or to a medical officer for examination.

(3) Administration of oath and consideration of evidence The Attorney General and any immigration officer shall have power to administer oaths and to take and consider evidence of or from any person touching the privilege of any alien or person he believes or suspects to be an alien to enter, reenter, transit through, or reside in the United States or concerning any matter which is material and relevant to the enforcement of this chapter and the administration of the Service.

(4) Subpoena authority

(A) The Attorney General and any immigration officer shall have power to require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses before immigration officers and the production of books, papers, and documents relating to the privilege of any person to enter, reenter, reside in, or pass through the United States or concerning any matter which is material and relevant to the enforcement of this chapter and the administration of the Service, and to that end may invoke the aid of any court of the United States.

(B) Any United States district court within the jurisdiction of which investigations or inquiries are being conducted by an immigration officer may, in the event of neglect or refusal to respond to a subpoena issued under this paragraph or refusal to testify before an immigration officer, issue an order requiring such persons to appear before an immigration officer, produce books, papers, and documents if demanded, and testify, and any failure to obey such order of the court may be punished by the court as a contempt thereof.

*([June 27, 1952, ch. 477](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477), title II, ch. 4, § 235, [66 Stat. 198](/us/stat/66/198); [Pub. L. 101–649, title VI, § 603(a)(11)](/us/pl/101/649/tVI/s603/a/11), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 5083](/us/stat/104/5083); [Pub. L. 104–132, title IV](/us/pl/104/132/tIV), §§ 422(a), 423(b), Apr. 24, 1996, [110 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/110/1270), 1272; [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII), §§ 302(a), 308(d)(5), 371(b)(4), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–579](/us/stat/110/3009-579), 3009–619, 3009–645; [Pub. L. 110–229, title VII, § 702(j)(5)](/us/pl/110/229/tVII/s702/j/5), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 867](/us/stat/122/867); [Pub. L. 119–1, § 3(a)](/us/pl/119/1/s3/a), Jan. 29, 2025, [139 Stat. 3](/us/stat/139/3).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1) and (d)(3), (4)(A), was in the original, “this Act”, meaning [act June 27, 1952, ch. 477](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477), [66 Stat. 163](/us/stat/66/163), known as the Immigration and Nationality Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (b)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 119–1](/us/pl/119/1) added par. (3) and redesignated former par. (3) as (4).

2008—Subsec. (b)(1)(G). [Pub. L. 110–229](/us/pl/110/229) added subpar. (G).

1996—[Pub. L. 104–208, § 302(a)](/us/pl/104/208/s302/a), amended section generally, revising and restating former subsecs. (a) to (d) relating to inspection of aliens arriving in the United States, powers of immigration officers, detention of aliens for further inquiry, temporary and permanent exclusion of aliens, and collateral attacks on orders of exclusion and deportation.

[Pub. L. 104–208, § 371(b)(4)](/us/pl/104/208/s371/b/4), substituted “an immigration judge” for “a special inquiry officer”, “immigration judge” for “special inquiry officer”, and “immigration judges” for “special inquiry officers”, wherever appearing in subsecs. (a) to (c).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–132, § 422(a)](/us/pl/104/132/s422/a), which directed the general amendment of subsec. (b) by substituting pars. (1) to (3) relating to asylum interviews and hearings, detention for further inquiry, and challenges of favorable decisions, for former subsec. (b) consisting of single par., was repealed by [Pub. L. 104–208, § 308(d)(5)](/us/pl/104/208/s308/d/5). See Construction of 1996 Amendment note below.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 104–132, § 423(b)](/us/pl/104/132/s423/b), added subsec. (d) which read as follows: “In any action brought for the assessment of penalties for improper entry or re-entry of an alien under section 1325 or [section 1326 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1326), no court shall have jurisdiction to hear claims collaterally attacking the validity of orders of exclusion, special exclusion, or deportation entered under this section or sections 1226 and 1252 of this title.”

1990—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 101–649](/us/pl/101/649) substituted “subparagraph (A) (other than clause (ii)), (B), or (C) of [section 1182(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1182/a/3)” for “paragraph (27), (28), or (29) of [section 1182(a) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1182/a)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 110–229](/us/pl/110/229) effective on the transition program effective date described in [section 1806 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1806), Territories and Insular Possessions, see [section 705(b) of Pub. L. 110–229](/us/pl/110/229/s705/b), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1806 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1806).

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendments

Amendment by [section 302(a) of Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208/s302/a) effective, with certain transitional provisions, on the first day of the first month beginning more than 180 days after Sept. 30, 1996, see [section 309 of Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208/s309), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101).

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 308(d)(5)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s308/d/5), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–619](/us/stat/110/3009-619), provided that the amendment made by section 308(d)(5) is effective as of Apr. 24, 1996. See Construction of 1996 Amendment note below.

Amendment by [section 371(b)(4) of Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208/s371/b/4) effective Sept. 30, 1996, see [section 371(d)(1) of Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208/s371/d/1), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101).

[Pub. L. 104–132, title IV, § 422(c)](/us/pl/104/132/tIV/s422/c), Apr. 24, 1996, [110 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/110/1272), which provided that the amendments made by [section 422 of Pub. L. 104–132](/us/pl/104/132/s422) [amending this section and former [section 1227 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1227)] were to take effect on the first day of the first month that began more than 180 days after Apr. 24, 1996, was repealed by [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 308(d)(5)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s308/d/5), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–619](/us/stat/110/3009-619). See Construction of 1996 Amendment note below.

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–649](/us/pl/101/649) applicable to individuals entering United States on or after June 1, 1991, see [section 601(e)(1) of Pub. L. 101–649](/us/pl/101/649/s601/e/1), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101).

#### Construction of 1996 Amendment

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 308(d)(5)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s308/d/5), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–619](/us/stat/110/3009-619), provided that: “Effective as of the date of the enactment of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 [[Pub. L. 104–132](/us/pl/104/132), approved Apr. 24, 1996], section 422 of such Act [amending this section and [section 1227 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1227), and enacting provisions set out as a note above] is repealed and the Immigration and Nationality Act [[8 U.S.C. 1101](/us/usc/t8/s1101) et seq.] shall be applied as if such section had not been enacted.”

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1551).

#### GAO Study on Operation of Expedited Removal Procedures

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 302(b)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s302/b), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–584](/us/stat/110/3009-584), required the Comptroller General to conduct a study on the implementation and effectiveness of the expedited removal procedures under subsec. (b)(1) of this section and submit to Congress a report on the study no later than 18 months after Sept. 30, 1996.

#### References to Order of Removal Deemed To Include Order of Exclusion and Deportation

For purposes of this chapter, any reference in law to an order of removal is deemed to include a reference to an order of exclusion and deportation or an order of deportation, see [section 309(d)(2) of Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208/s309/d/2), set out in an Effective Date of 1996 Amendments note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101).
