---
title: "§ 2160. Prohibition on slaughter of dogs and cats for human consumption"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2160"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2160"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12515](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12515), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 5000](/us/stat/132/5000).)"
---
# § 2160. Prohibition on slaughter of dogs and cats for human consumption

##### § 2160. Prohibition on slaughter of dogs and cats for human consumption

(a) In general Except as provided in subsection (c), no person may—

(1) knowingly slaughter a dog or cat for human consumption; or

(2) knowingly ship, transport, move, deliver, receive, possess, purchase, sell, or donate—

(A) a dog or cat to be slaughtered for human consumption; or

(B) a dog or cat part for human consumption.

(b) Scope Subsection (a) shall apply only with respect to conduct—

(1) in or affecting interstate commerce or foreign commerce; or

(2) within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States.

(c) Exception for Indian tribes The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to an Indian (as defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304)) carrying out any activity described in subsection (a) for the purpose of a religious ceremony.

(d) Penalty Any person who violates subsection (a) shall be subject to a fine in an amount not greater than $5,000 for each violation.

(e) Effect on State law Nothing in this section—

(1) limits any State or local law or regulation protecting the welfare of animals; or

(2) prevents a State or unit of local government from adopting and enforcing an animal welfare law or regulation that is more stringent than this section.

*([Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12515](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12515), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 5000](/us/stat/132/5000).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, and not as part of the Animal Welfare Act which comprises this chapter.
