---
title: "§ 7135a. Delegation by Secretary of Energy of energy research, etc., functions to Administrator of Energy Information Administration; prohibition against required delegation; utilization of capabilities by Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7135a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7135a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–238, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/95/238/tI/s104/b), Feb. 25, 1978, [92 Stat. 53](/us/stat/92/53).)"
---
# § 7135a. Delegation by Secretary of Energy of energy research, etc., functions to Administrator of Energy Information Administration; prohibition against required delegation; utilization of capabilities by Secretary

##### § 7135a. Delegation by Secretary of Energy of energy research, etc., functions to Administrator of Energy Information Administration; prohibition against required delegation; utilization of capabilities by Secretary

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Energy shall not be required to delegate to the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration any energy research, development, and demonstration function vested in the Secretary, pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act [[42 U.S.C. 2011](/us/usc/t42/s2011) et seq.], the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act [[42 U.S.C. 5901](/us/usc/t42/s5901) et seq.], the Geothermal Research, Development and Demonstration Act,11 See References in Text note below. the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development and Demonstration Act [[15 U.S.C. 2501](/us/usc/t15/s2501) et seq.], the Solar Heating and Cooling Demonstration Act [[42 U.S.C. 5501](/us/usc/t42/s5501) et seq.], the Solar Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Act,1 and the Energy Reorganization Act [[42 U.S.C. 5801](/us/usc/t42/s5801) et seq.]. Additionally, the Secretary may utilize the capabilities of the Energy Information Administration as he deems appropriate for the conduct of such programs.

*([Pub. L. 95–238, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/95/238/tI/s104/b), Feb. 25, 1978, [92 Stat. 53](/us/stat/92/53).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Atomic Energy Act, referred to in text, probably means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 919](/us/stat/68/919), which is classified principally to chapter 23 (§ 2011 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2011) and Tables.

The Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act, referred to in text, probably means the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974, [Pub. L. 93–577](/us/pl/93/577), Dec. 31, 1974, [88 Stat. 1878](/us/stat/88/1878), which is classified generally to chapter 74 (§ 5901 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5901) and Tables.

The Geothermal Research, Development, and Demonstration Act, referred to in text, probably means the Geothermal Energy, Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1974, [Pub. L. 93–410](/us/pl/93/410), Sept. 3, 1974, [88 Stat. 1079](/us/stat/88/1079), which was classified generally to chapter 24 (§ 1101 et seq.) of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3002(i)(3)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3002/i/3), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2495](/us/stat/134/2495).

The Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development and Demonstration Act, referred to in text, probably means the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976, [Pub. L. 94–413](/us/pl/94/413), Sept. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 1260](/us/stat/90/1260), which is classified principally to chapter 52 (§ 2501 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2501 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s2501) and Tables.

The Solar Heating and Cooling Demonstration Act, referred to in text, probably means the Solar Heating and Cooling Demonstration Act of 1974, [Pub. L. 93–409](/us/pl/93/409), Sept. 3, 1974, [88 Stat. 1069](/us/stat/88/1069), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 5501 et seq.) of chapter 71 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5501 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5501) and Tables.

The Solar Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration Act, referred to in text, probably means the Solar Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1974, [Pub. L. 93–473](/us/pl/93/473), Oct. 26, 1974, [88 Stat. 1431](/us/stat/88/1431), which was classified generally to subchapter II (§ 5551 et seq.) of chapter 71 of this title, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3006(e)(1)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3006/e/1), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2513](/us/stat/134/2513).

The Energy Reorganization Act, referred to in text, probably means the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, [Pub. L. 93–438](/us/pl/93/438), Oct. 11, 1974, [88 Stat. 1233](/us/stat/88/1233), which is classified principally to chapter 73 (§ 5801 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5801) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of Energy Act of 1978—Civilian Applications, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
