---
title: "§ 1611. Congressional statement of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1611"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1611"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 101](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s101), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1402](/us/stat/90/1402); [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 101](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s101), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4530](/us/stat/106/4530).)"
---
# § 1611. Congressional statement of purpose

##### § 1611. Congressional statement of purpose

The purpose of this subchapter is to increase the number of Indians entering the health professions and to assure an adequate supply of health professionals to the Service, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations involved in the provision of health care to Indian people.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 101](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s101), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1402](/us/stat/90/1402); [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 101](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s101), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4530](/us/stat/106/4530).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–573](/us/pl/102/573) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The purpose of this subchapter is to augment the inadequate number of health professionals serving Indians and remove the multiple barriers to the entrance of health professionals into the Service and private practice among Indians.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Advisory Panel and Report on Recruitment and Retention

[Pub. L. 100–713, title I, § 110](/us/pl/100/713/tI/s110), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4800](/us/stat/102/4800), directed Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish an advisory panel composed of 10 physicians or other health professionals who are employees of, or assigned to, the Indian Health Service, 3 representatives of tribal health boards, and 1 representative of an urban health care organization, such advisory panel to conduct an investigation of (1) administrative policies and regulatory procedures which impede recruitment or retention of physicians and other health professionals by Indian Health Service, and (2) regulatory changes necessary to establish pay grades for health professionals employed by, or assigned to, the Service that correspond to the pay grades established for positions provided under [38 U.S.C. 4103](/us/usc/t38/s4103) and 4104 and costs associated with establishing such pay grades, and, no later than the date that is 18 months after Nov. 23, 1988, to submit to Congress a report on the investigation, together with any recommendations for administrative or legislative changes in existing law, practices, or procedures.
