---
title: "§ 17156. Competitive grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17156"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17156"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title V, § 546](/us/pl/110/140/tV/s546), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1673](/us/stat/121/1673).)"
---
# § 17156. Competitive grants

##### § 17156. Competitive grants

(a) In general Of the total amount made available for each fiscal year to carry out this part, the Secretary shall use not less than 2 percent to provide grants under this section, on a competitive basis, to—

(1) units of local government (including Indian tribes) that are not eligible entities; and

(2) consortia of units of local government described in paragraph (1).

(b) Applications To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a unit of local government or consortia shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a plan of the unit of local government to carry out an activity described in [section 17154 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17154).

(c) Priority In providing grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to units of local government—

(1) located in States with populations of less than 2,000,000; or

(2) that plan to carry out projects that would result in significant energy efficiency improvements or reductions in fossil fuel use.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title V, § 546](/us/pl/110/140/tV/s546), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1673](/us/stat/121/1673).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
