---
title: "§ 910. Congressional Record: subscriptions; sale of current, individual numbers, and bound sets; postage rate"
identifier: "USC-T44-S910"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section910"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1260](/us/stat/82/1260); [Pub. L. 93–314, § 1(a)](/us/pl/93/314/s1/a), June 8, 1974, [88 Stat. 239](/us/stat/88/239); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)"
---
# § 910. Congressional Record: subscriptions; sale of current, individual numbers, and bound sets; postage rate

##### § 910. Congressional Record: subscriptions; sale of current, individual numbers, and bound sets; postage rate

(a) Under the direction of the Joint Committee, the Director of the Government Publishing Office may sell—

(1) subscriptions to the daily Record; and

(2) current, individual numbers, and bound sets of the Congressional Record.

(b) The price of a subscription to the daily Record and of current, individual numbers, and bound sets shall be determined by the Director of the Government Publishing Office based upon the cost of printing and distribution. Any such price shall be paid in advance. The money from any such sale shall be paid into the Treasury and accounted for in the Public Printer’s 11 So in original. Probably should be “Director of the Government Publishing Office’s”. annual report to Congress.

(c) The Congressional Record shall be entitled to be mailed at the same rates of postage at which any newspaper or other periodical publication, with a legitimate list of paid subscribers, is entitled to be mailed.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1260](/us/stat/82/1260); [Pub. L. 93–314, § 1(a)](/us/pl/93/314/s1/a), June 8, 1974, [88 Stat. 239](/us/stat/88/239); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 188 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 40](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s40), [28 Stat. 607](/us/stat/28/607)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235) substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer”.

1974—[Pub. L. 93–314](/us/pl/93/314) included subscriptions and postage rate in section catchline, and inserted provisions in text authorizing sale of subscriptions, requiring price for subscriptions to be paid in advance, and directing that the Congressional Record shall be entitled to be mailed at the same rates of postage at which any newspaper or other periodical publication, with a legitimate list of paid subscribers, is entitled to be mailed.
