---
title: "§ 2000gg–1. Nondiscrimination with regard to reasonable accommodations related to pregnancy"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000gg–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000gg–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. II, § 103](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s103), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 6085](/us/stat/136/6085).)"
---
# § 2000gg–1. Nondiscrimination with regard to reasonable accommodations related to pregnancy

##### § 2000gg–1. Nondiscrimination with regard to reasonable accommodations related to pregnancy

(1) not make reasonable accommodations to the known limitations related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of a qualified employee, unless such covered entity can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the business of such covered entity;

(2) require a qualified employee affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions to accept an accommodation other than any reasonable accommodation arrived at through the interactive process referred to in [section 2000gg(7) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg/7);

(3) deny employment opportunities to a qualified employee if such denial is based on the need of the covered entity to make reasonable accommodations to the known limitations related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of the qualified employee;

(4) require a qualified employee to take leave, whether paid or unpaid, if another reasonable accommodation can be provided to the known limitations related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of the qualified employee; or

(5) take adverse action in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment against a qualified employee on account of the employee requesting or using a reasonable accommodation to the known limitations related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of the employee.

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. II, § 103](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s103), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 6085](/us/stat/136/6085).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 29, 2022, see [section 109 of div. II of Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s109), set out as a note under [section 2000gg of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg).
