---
title: "§ 3604. Regulations and reports"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–389, title III, § 305](/us/pl/97/389/tIII/s305), Dec. 29, 1982, [96 Stat. 1953](/us/stat/96/1953).)"
---
# § 3604. Regulations and reports

##### § 3604. Regulations and reports

(a) Promulgation of regulations; implementation; applicability The Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall promulgate such regulations pursuant to [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553) as may be necessary to carry out the purposes and objectives of the Convention and this chapter, and to implement regulatory measures that are binding on the United States under the Convention. Any such regulation may be made applicable, as necessary, to all persons and all vessels subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, wherever located.

(b) Preparation and submission of reports by certain Secretaries The Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall prepare all statements, reports, and notifications, required by articles 14 and 15 of the Convention and submit such documents to the Secretary of State for transmission to the Organization.

*([Pub. L. 97–389, title III, § 305](/us/pl/97/389/tIII/s305), Dec. 29, 1982, [96 Stat. 1953](/us/stat/96/1953).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
