---
title: "§ 460m–8. Establishment"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460m–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460m–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–237, § 1](/us/pl/92/237/s1), Mar. 1, 1972, [86 Stat. 44](/us/stat/86/44); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(n)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s6/n/1), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4586](/us/stat/108/4586).)"
---
# § 460m–8. Establishment

##### § 460m–8. Establishment

For the purposes of conserving and interpreting an area containing unique scenic and scientific features, and preserving as a free-flowing stream an important segment of the Buffalo River in Arkansas for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the “Secretary”) may establish and administer the Buffalo National River. The boundaries of the national river shall be as generally depicted on the drawing entitled “Proposed Buffalo National River” numbered NR–BUF–7103 and dated December 1967, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary is authorized to make minor revisions of the boundaries of the national river when necessary, after advising the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate in writing, but the total acreage within such boundaries shall not exceed ninety-five thousand seven hundred and thirty acres.

*([Pub. L. 92–237, § 1](/us/pl/92/237/s1), Mar. 1, 1972, [86 Stat. 44](/us/stat/86/44); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(n)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s6/n/1), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4586](/us/stat/108/4586).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate” for “Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate”.
