---
title: "§ 1808. Operations"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1808"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1808"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–229, title VII, § 702(f)](/us/pl/110/229/tVII/s702/f), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 863](/us/stat/122/863).)"
---
# § 1808. Operations

##### § 1808. Operations

(1) Establishment At any time on and after May 8, 2008, the Attorney General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Labor may establish and maintain offices and other operations in the Commonwealth for the purpose of carrying out duties under—

(A) the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C. 1101](/us/usc/t8/s1101) et seq.); and

(B) the transition program established under [section 1806 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1806), as added by subsection (a).

(2) Personnel To the maximum extent practicable and consistent with the satisfactory performance of assigned duties under applicable law, the Attorney General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Labor shall recruit and hire personnel from among qualified United States citizens and national applicants residing in the Commonwealth to serve as staff in carrying out operations described in paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 110–229, title VII, § 702(f)](/us/pl/110/229/tVII/s702/f), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 863](/us/stat/122/863).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in par. (1)(A), is [act June 27, 1952, ch. 477](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477), [66 Stat. 163](/us/stat/66/163), which is classified principally to chapter 12 (§ 1101 et seq.) of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1101 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1101) and Tables.

[Section 1806 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1806), as added by subsection (a), referred to in par. (1)(B), is [section 1806 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1806), as added by subsection (a) of [section 702 of Pub. L. 110–229](/us/pl/110/229/s702).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008, and not as part of [Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241) which comprises this subchapter.
