---
title: "§ 570. Conveyance of land to school district"
identifier: "USC-T43-S570"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section570"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Oct. 31, 1919, ch. 92](/us/act/1919-10-31/ch92), [41 Stat. 326](/us/stat/41/326).)"
---
# § 570. Conveyance of land to school district

##### § 570. Conveyance of land to school district

The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized, upon application by the proper officers of a school district located wholly or in part within the boundaries of a project of the United States Reclamation Service, to issue patent conveying to such district such unappropriated undisposed of lands, not exceeding six acres in area, within any Government reclamation town site situated within such school district as, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior, are necessary for use by said district for school buildings and grounds: *Provided*, That if any land so conveyed cease entirely to be used for school purposes title thereto shall revert to and revest in the United States.

*([Oct. 31, 1919, ch. 92](/us/act/1919-10-31/ch92), [41 Stat. 326](/us/stat/41/326).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Change of Name

The Reclamation Service, established in July 1902, changed to the Bureau of Reclamation on June 20, 1923, then to the Water and Power Resources Service on Nov. 6, 1979, and then to the Bureau of Reclamation on May 18, 1981. See 155 Dep’t of the Interior, Departmental Manual 1.1 (2008 repl.); Sec’y Hubert Work, Dep’t of the Interior, Order (June 20, 1923); Sec’y Cecil D. Andrus, Dep’t of the Interior, Secretarial Order 3042, §§ 1, 4 (Nov. 6, 1979); Sec’y James G. Watt, Dep’t of the Interior, Secretarial Order 3064, §§ 3, 5 (May 18, 1981).

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).
