---
title: "§ 3202. Congressional statement of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–242, § 3](/us/pl/95/242/s3), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 120](/us/stat/92/120).)"
---
# § 3202. Congressional statement of purpose

##### § 3202. Congressional statement of purpose

(a) establishing a more effective framework for international cooperation to meet the energy needs of all nations and to ensure that the worldwide development of peaceful nuclear activities and the export by any nation of nuclear materials and equipment and nuclear technology intended for use in peaceful nuclear activities do not contribute to proliferation;

(b) authorizing the United States to take such actions as are required to ensure that it will act reliably in meeting its commitment to supply nuclear reactors and fuel to nations which adhere to effective non-proliferation policies;

(c) providing incentives to the other nations of the world to join in such international cooperative efforts and to ratify the Treaty; and

(d) ensuring effective controls by the United States over its exports of nuclear materials and equipment and of nuclear technology.

*([Pub. L. 95–242, § 3](/us/pl/95/242/s3), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 120](/us/stat/92/120).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 120](/us/stat/92/120), known as the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3201 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3201) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 10, 1978, except as otherwise provided and regardless of any requirements for the promulgation of implementing regulations, see [section 603(c) of Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242/s603/c), set out as a note under [section 3201 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3201).
