---
title: "§ 2741. Time limit on award; report concerning deed"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2741"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2741"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 536](/us/stat/63/536), § 496; [Pub. L. 87–526, § 1(5)](/us/pl/87/526/s1/5), July 10, 1962, [76 Stat. 141](/us/stat/76/141); [Pub. L. 111–281, title II, § 224(c)(2)](/us/pl/111/281/tII/s224/c/2), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2922](/us/stat/124/2922); renumbered § 2741, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 116(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s116/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/132/4226); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG"
---
# § 2741. Time limit on award; report concerning deed

##### § 2741. Time limit on award; report concerning deed

(a) No medal of honor, Coast Guard cross, distinguished service medal, silver star medal, distinguished flying cross, Coast Guard medal, or bar, emblem, or insignia in lieu thereof may be awarded to an individual unless—

(1) the award is made within five years after the date of the deed or service justifying the award;

(2) a statement setting forth the deed or distinguished service and recommending official recognition of it was made by his superior through official channels within three years from the date of that deed or termination of the service.

(b) If the Secretary determines that—

(1) a statement setting forth the deed or distinguished service and recommending official recognition of it was made by the individual’s superior through official channels within three years from the date of that deed or termination of the service and was supported by sufficient evidence within that time; and

(2) no award was made, because the statement was lost or through inadvertence the recommendation was not acted upon; a medal of honor, Coast Guard cross, distinguished service medal, silver star medal, distinguished flying cross, Coast Guard medal, or bar, emblem, or insignia in lieu thereof, as the case may be, may be awarded to the individual within two years after the date of that determination.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 536](/us/stat/63/536), § 496; [Pub. L. 87–526, § 1(5)](/us/pl/87/526/s1/5), July 10, 1962, [76 Stat. 141](/us/stat/76/141); [Pub. L. 111–281, title II, § 224(c)(2)](/us/pl/111/281/tII/s224/c/2), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2922](/us/stat/124/2922); renumbered § 2741, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 116(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s116/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/132/4226); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8505(a)(34), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4749](/us/stat/134/4749).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section establishes a time limit on the making of awards. It follows the established practice in all the armed forces (see title 10, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 1409 and title 34, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 360). 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8505(a)(34)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/s8505/a/34/A), substituted “an individual” for “a person” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8505(a)(34)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s8505/a/34/B), substituted “individual’s” for “person’s”.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8505(a)(34)(C)](/us/pl/116/283/s8505/a/34/C), substituted “individual” for “person”.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 496 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s496) as this section.

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 224(c)(2)(A)](/us/pl/111/281/s224/c/2/A), substituted “Coast Guard cross, distinguished service medal, silver star medal, distinguished flying cross,” for “distinguished service medal, distinguished flying cross,” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 224(c)(2)(B)](/us/pl/111/281/s224/c/2/B), substituted “Coast Guard cross, distinguished service medal, silver star medal, distinguished flying cross,” for “distinguished service medal, distinguished flying cross,”.

1962—[Pub. L. 87–526](/us/pl/87/526) incorporated existing provisions in subsec. (a), included the distinguished flying cross and bar in lieu of any award in the enumeration of medals, and extended the time limit for recommending award of a medal after performance of the deed justifying the award from one to three years and added subsec. (b).
