---
title: "§ 2680–4. Periodic briefings from Bureau of Intelligence and Research"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2680–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2680–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–60, div. E, title I, § 5171](/us/pl/119/60/dE/tI/s5171), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1586](/us/stat/139/1586).)"
---
# § 2680–4. Periodic briefings from Bureau of Intelligence and Research

##### § 2680–4. Periodic briefings from Bureau of Intelligence and Research

(a) In general The Secretary shall offer to the appropriate congressional committees regular, quarterly briefings by the Bureau of Intelligence and Research, in coordination with other bureaus as appropriate, on—

(1) any topic requested by one or more of the appropriate congressional committees;

(2) any topic of current importance to the national security of the United States; and

(3) any other topic the Secretary considers necessary.

(b) Location The briefings required under subsection (a) shall be held at a secure facility that is suitable for review of information that is classified at the level of “Top Secret/SCI”.

(c) No limitation on other briefings Any briefings pursuant to subsection (a) shall be in addition to any briefings provided to the appropriate congressional committees, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the provision of any other briefings to the committees described in this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 119–60, div. E, title I, § 5171](/us/pl/119/60/dE/tI/s5171), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1586](/us/stat/139/1586).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary” and “Appropriate Congressional Committees” as used in this section, see [section 5002 of Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60/s5002), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
