---
title: "§ 20237. Numbers to be recommended for promotion"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20237"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20237"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 644](/us/stat/137/644).)"
---
# § 20237. Numbers to be recommended for promotion

##### § 20237. Numbers to be recommended for promotion

(a) Promotion to Grades Below Brigadier General.—

(1) Determination of maximum number.— Before convening a selection board under [section 20211 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20211) to consider officers for recommendation for promotion to a grade below brigadier general and in any competitive category, the Secretary of the Air Force shall determine the maximum number of officers in that competitive category that the board may recommend for promotion.

(2) Determinations.— In order to make the determination under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall determine—

(A) the number of positions needed to accomplish mission objectives which require officers of that competitive category in the grade to which the board will recommend officers for promotion;

(B) the estimated number of officers needed to fill vacancies in those positions during the period in which it is anticipated that officers selected for promotion will be promoted; and

(C) the number of officers in a space force active status authorized by the Secretary of the Air Force to serve both on sustained duty and not on sustained duty in the grade and competitive category under consideration.

(b) Promotion to Brigadier General and Major General.—

(1) Determination of maximum numbers.— Before convening a selection board under [section 20211 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20211) to consider officers for recommendation for promotion to the grade of brigadier general or major general, the Secretary of the Air Force shall determine the maximum number of officers serving in a space force active status on sustained duty, and the maximum number of officers serving in a space force active status not on sustained duty, that the board may recommend for promotion.

(2) Determinations.— In order to make the determinations under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall determine—

(A) the number of positions needed to accomplish mission objectives which require officers serving in a space force active status on sustained duty, and in a space force active status not on sustained duty, in the grade to which the board will recommend officers for promotion; and

(B) the estimated number of officers on sustained duty and not on sustained duty needed to fill vacancies in those positions over the 24-month period beginning on the date on which the selection board convenes.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 644](/us/stat/137/644).)*
