---
title: "§ 2795. University-based research collaboration program"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2795"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2795"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4814](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4814), formerly [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXI, § 3155](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXI/s3155), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2044](/us/stat/111/2044); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4814](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4814), and amended [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(k)(9)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/k/9), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1785](/us/stat/117/1785); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXX"
---
# § 2795. University-based research collaboration program

##### § 2795. University-based research collaboration program

(a) Findings Congress makes the following findings:

(1) The maintenance of scientific and engineering competence in the United States is vital to long-term national security and the defense and national security missions of the Department of Energy.

(2) Engaging the universities and colleges of the Nation in research on long-range problems of vital national security interest will be critical to solving the technology challenges faced within the defense and national security programs of the Department of Energy in the next century.

(3) Enhancing collaboration among the national laboratories, universities and colleges, and industry will contribute significantly to the performance of these Department of Energy missions.

(b) Program The Secretary of Energy shall establish a university program at a location that can develop the most effective collaboration among national laboratories, universities and colleges, and industry in support of scientific and engineering advancement in key Department of Energy defense and national security program areas.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4814](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4814), formerly [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXI, § 3155](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXI/s3155), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2044](/us/stat/111/2044); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4814](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4814), and amended [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(k)(9)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/k/9), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1785](/us/stat/117/1785); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(y)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3131/y), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2185](/us/stat/126/2185).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 7381 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7381), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 108–136](/us/pl/108/136).

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) struck out subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Of the funds authorized to be appropriated in title XXXI of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 ([Public Law 105–85](/us/pl/105/85)) to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 1998, the Secretary shall make $5,000,000 available for the establishment and operation of the program under subsection (b).”

2003—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 3141(k)(9)(D)](/us/pl/108/136/s3141/k/9/D), substituted “title XXXI of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 ([Public Law 105–85](/us/pl/105/85))” for “this title”.
