---
title: "§ 10310. Produced water research and development"
identifier: "USC-T42-S10310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section10310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title IV, § 4008](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIV/s4008), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2546](/us/stat/134/2546).)"
---
# § 10310. Produced water research and development

##### § 10310. Produced water research and development

(a) Establishment As soon as possible after December 27, 2020, the Secretary of Energy (in this section referred to as the “Secretary”) shall establish a research and development program on produced water to develop—

(1) new technologies and practices to reduce the environmental impact; and

(2) opportunities for reprocessing of produced water at natural gas or oil development sites.

(b) Prioritization In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to projects that develop and bring to market—

(1) effective systems for on-site management or repurposing of produced water; and

(2) new technologies or approaches to reduce the environmental impact of produced water on local water sources and the environment.

(c) Conduct of program In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the Secretary shall carry out science-based research and development activities to pursue—

(1) improved efficiency, technologies, and techniques for produced water recycling stations; and

(2) alternative approaches to treating, reusing, storing, or decontaminating produced water.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title IV, § 4008](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIV/s4008), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2546](/us/stat/134/2546).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy Act of 2020, and not as part of the Water Resources Research Act of 1984 which comprises this chapter.
