---
title: "§ 1752. Appeals from Federal district court transfer or transportation orders affecting school attendance areas and achieving balancing of students; postponement of Federal court orders pending exercise of appellate remedy; expiration of section"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1752"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1752"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 253](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s253), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 519](/us/stat/88/519).)"
---
# § 1752. Appeals from Federal district court transfer or transportation orders affecting school attendance areas and achieving balancing of students; postponement of Federal court orders pending exercise of appellate remedy; expiration of section

##### § 1752. Appeals from Federal district court transfer or transportation orders affecting school attendance areas and achieving balancing of students; postponement of Federal court orders pending exercise of appellate remedy; expiration of section

Notwithstanding any other law or provision of law, in the case of any order on the part of any United States district court which requires the transfer or transportation of any student or students from any school attendance area prescribed by competent State or local authority for the purposes of achieving a balance among students with respect to race, sex, religion, or socioeconomic status, the effectiveness of such order shall be postponed until all appeals in connection with such order have been exhausted or, in the event no appeals are taken, until the time for such appeals has expired. This section shall expire at midnight on June 30, 1978.

*([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 253](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s253), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 519](/us/stat/88/519).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on and after sixtieth day after Aug. 21, 1974, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 93–380](/us/pl/93/380/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 1221–1 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1221–1).
