---
title: "§ 524. Rights-of-way for dams, reservoirs, or water plants for municipal, mining, and milling purposes"
identifier: "USC-T16-S524"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section524"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Feb. 1, 1905, ch. 288, § 4](/us/act/1905-02-01/ch288/s4), [33 Stat. 628](/us/stat/33/628).)"
---
# § 524. Rights-of-way for dams, reservoirs, or water plants for municipal, mining, and milling purposes

##### § 524. Rights-of-way for dams, reservoirs, or water plants for municipal, mining, and milling purposes

Rights-of-way for the construction and maintenance of dams, reservoirs, water plants, ditches, flumes, pipes, tunnels, and canals, within and across the national forests of the United States, are granted to citizens and corporations of the United States for municipal or mining purposes, and for the purposes of the milling and reduction of ores, during the period of their beneficial use, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, and subject to the laws of the State or Territory in which said forests are respectively situated.

*([Feb. 1, 1905, ch. 288, § 4](/us/act/1905-02-01/ch288/s4), [33 Stat. 628](/us/stat/33/628).)*

#### Repeals

Section repealed by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2793](/us/stat/90/2793), effective on and after Oct. 21, 1976, insofar as applicable to the issuance of rights-of-way over, upon, under, and through the public lands and lands in the National Forest System.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

“National forests” and “forests” substituted in text for “forest reserves” and “reserves”, respectively, on authority of [act Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), [34 Stat. 1269](/us/stat/34/1269), which provided that forest reserves shall hereafter be known as national forests.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Savings Provision

Repeal by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2793](/us/stat/90/2793), insofar as applicable to the issuance of rights-of-way, not to be construed as terminating any valid lease, permit, patent, etc., existing on Oct. 21, 1976, see note set out under [section 1701 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1701), Public Lands.
