---
title: "§ 2564. Provision of support for certain sporting events"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2564"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2564"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title III, § 367(a)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tIII/s367/a), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2496](/us/stat/110/2496), § 2554; amended [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title X, § 1073(a)(56)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tX/s1073/a/56), (c)(2)(A), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1903](/us/stat/111/1903), 1904; renumbered § 2564, [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title X, § 1033(b)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–260; [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title "
---
# § 2564. Provision of support for certain sporting events

##### § 2564. Provision of support for certain sporting events

(a) Security and Safety Assistance.— At the request of a Federal, State, or local government agency responsible for providing law enforcement services, security services, or safety services, the Secretary of Defense may authorize the commander of a military installation or other facility of the Department of Defense or the commander of a specified or unified combatant command to provide assistance for the World Cup Soccer Games, the Goodwill Games, the Olympics, and any other civilian sporting event in support of essential security and safety at such event, but only if the Attorney General certifies that such assistance is necessary to meet essential security and safety needs.

(b) Other Assistance.— The Secretary of Defense may authorize a commander referred to in subsection (a) to provide assistance for a sporting event referred to in that subsection in support of other needs relating to such event, but only—

(1) to the extent that such needs cannot reasonably be met by a source other than the Department;

(2) to the extent that the provision of such assistance does not adversely affect the military preparedness of the armed forces; and

(3) if the organization requesting such assistance agrees to reimburse the Department for amounts expended by the Department in providing the assistance in accordance with the provisions of [section 277 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s277) and other applicable provisions of law.

(c) Inapplicability to Certain Events.— Subsections (a) and (b) do not apply to the following sporting events:

(1) Sporting events for which funds have been appropriated before September 23, 1996.

(2) The Special Olympics.

(3) The Paralympics.

(4) A sporting event sanctioned by the United States Olympic Committee through the Paralympic Military Program.

(5) Any national or international paralympic sporting event (other than a sporting event described in paragraphs (1) through (4))—

(A) that—

(i) is held in the United States or any of its territories or commonwealths;

(ii) is governed by the International Paralympic Committee; and

(iii) is sanctioned by the United States Olympic Committee;

(B) for which participation exceeds 100 amateur athletes; and

(C) in which at least 10 percent of the athletes participating in the sporting event are members or former members of the armed forces who are participating in the sporting event based upon an injury or wound incurred in the line of duty in the armed force and veterans who are participating in the sporting event based upon a service-connected disability.

(d) Terms and Conditions.— The Secretary of Defense may require such terms and conditions in connection with the provision of assistance under this section as the Secretary considers necessary and appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

(e) Relationship to Other Laws.— Assistance provided under this section shall be subject to the provisions of sections 275 and 276 of this title.

(f) Funding for Support of Certain Events.—

(1) Amounts for the provision of support for a sporting event described in paragraph (4) or (5) of subsection (c) may be derived from the Support for International Sporting Competitions, Defense account established by section 5802 of the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997 ([Public Law 104–208](/us/pl/104/208); [10 U.S.C. 2564](/us/usc/t10/s2564) note), notwithstanding any limitation under that section relating to the availability of funds in such account for the provision of support for international sporting competitions.

(2) The total amount expended for any fiscal year to provide support for sporting events described in subsection (c)(5) may not exceed $1,000,000.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title III, § 367(a)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tIII/s367/a), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2496](/us/stat/110/2496), § 2554; amended [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title X, § 1073(a)(56)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tX/s1073/a/56), (c)(2)(A), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1903](/us/stat/111/1903), 1904; renumbered § 2564, [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title X, § 1033(b)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–260; [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title III, § 372(a)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tIII/s372/a), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 81](/us/stat/122/81); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1051(a)(20)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1051/a/20), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1561](/us/stat/131/1561).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1051(a)(20)(A)](/us/pl/115/91/s1051/a/20/A), substituted “section 277” for “section 377”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1051(a)(20)(D)](/us/pl/115/91/s1051/a/20/D), substituted “sections 275 and 276” for “sections 375 and 376”. Directory language which read “by ‘striking sections 375 and 376’ ” was executed as if it had read “by striking ‘sections 375 and 376’ ”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

[Pub. L. 115–91, § 1051(a)(20)(B)](/us/pl/115/91/s1051/a/20/B), (C), redesignated subsec. (f) as (e) and struck out former subsec. (e) which required reports on assistance provided under this section.

Subsecs. (f), (g). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1051(a)(20)(C)](/us/pl/115/91/s1051/a/20/C), redesignated subsecs. (f) and (g) as (e) and (f), respectively.

2008—Subsec. (c)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 110–181, § 372(a)(1)](/us/pl/110/181/s372/a/1), added pars. (4) and (5).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 110–181, § 372(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/181/s372/a/2), added subsec. (g).

2000—[Pub. L. 106–398](/us/pl/106/398) renumbered [section 2554 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2554) as this section.

1997—[Pub. L. 105–85, § 1073(c)(2)(A)](/us/pl/105/85/s1073/c/2/A), made technical amendment to directory language of [Pub. L. 104–201, § 367(a)](/us/pl/104/201/s367/a), which enacted this section.

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 105–85, § 1073(a)(56)](/us/pl/105/85/s1073/a/56), substituted “September 23, 1996” for “the date of the enactment of this Act”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

References to the United States Olympic Committee deemed to refer to the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee, see [section 220502(c) of Title 36](/us/usc/t36/s220502/c), Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and Organizations.

#### Effective Date of 1997 Amendment

[Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title X, § 1073(c)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tX/s1073/c), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/111/1904), provided that the amendment made by that section is effective as of Sept. 23, 1996, and as if included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997, [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201), as enacted.

#### Support for International Sporting Competitions, Defense, Account

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title V, § 5802](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tV/s5802), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–522](/us/stat/110/3009-522), as amended by [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title III, § 372(b)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tIII/s372/b), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 82](/us/stat/122/82), provided that: “There is hereby established on the books of the Treasury an account, ‘Support for International Sporting Competitions, Defense’ (hereinafter referred to in this section as the ‘Account’) to be available until expended for logistical and security support for international sporting competitions and for support of sporting competitions authorized under section 2564(c)(4) and (5), of title 10, United States Code, (other than pay and non-travel-related allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the United States, except for members of the reserve components thereof called or ordered to active duty in connection with providing such support): *Provided*, That there shall be credited to the Account: (a) unobligated balances of the funds appropriated in Public Laws 103–335 [[108 Stat. 2605](/us/stat/108/2605)] and 104–61 [[109 Stat. 642](/us/stat/109/642)] under the headings ‘Summer Olympics’; (b) any reimbursements received by the Department of Defense in connection with support to the 1993 World University Games; the 1994 World Cup Games; and the 1996 Games of the XXVI Olympiad held in Atlanta, Georgia; (c) any reimbursements received by the Department of Defense after the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 30, 1996] for logistical and security support provided to international sporting competitions; and (d) amounts specifically appropriated to the Account, all to remain available until expended: *Provided further*, That none of the funds made available to the Account may be obligated until 15 days after the congressional defense committees [Committee on Armed Services and Subcommittee on National Security of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Committee on Armed Services and Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate] have been notified in writing by the Secretary of Defense as to the purpose for which these funds will be obligated.”
