---
title: "§ 1436d. Consultation with affected areas in settlement of litigation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1436d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1436d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 599H(b)](/us/pl/105/276/tV/s599H/b), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2668](/us/stat/112/2668).)"
---
# § 1436d. Consultation with affected areas in settlement of litigation

##### § 1436d. Consultation with affected areas in settlement of litigation

In negotiating any settlement of, or consent decree for, significant litigation regarding public housing or section 8 [[42 U.S.C. 1437f](/us/usc/t42/s1437f)] tenant-based assistance that involves the Secretary and any public housing agency or any unit of general local government, the Secretary shall seek the views of any units of general local government and public housing agencies having jurisdictions that are adjacent to the jurisdiction of the public housing agency involved, if the resolution of such litigation would involve the acquisition or development of public housing dwelling units or the use of vouchers under [section 1437f of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1437f) in jurisdictions that are adjacent to the jurisdiction of the public housing agency involved in the litigation.

*([Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 599H(b)](/us/pl/105/276/tV/s599H/b), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2668](/us/stat/112/2668).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Secretary, referred to in text, means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998, and not as part of the United States Housing Act of 1937 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 599H(m)](/us/pl/105/276/tV/s599H/m), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2670](/us/stat/112/2670), provided that: “This section [enacting this section and amending [section 1490 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1490)] shall take effect on, and the amendments made by this section are made on, and shall apply beginning upon, the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 21, 1998].”
