---
title: "§ 512. Limitation on cost of construction and equipment; vesting of title to facilities"
identifier: "USC-T50-S512"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section512"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 27, 1949, ch. 766](/us/act/1949-10-27/ch766), title I, § 102, [63 Stat. 936](/us/stat/63/936); [Pub. L. 85–568, title III, § 301(d)(2)](/us/pl/85/568/tIII/s301/d/2), (3), July 29, 1958, [72 Stat. 433](/us/stat/72/433).)"
---
# § 512. Limitation on cost of construction and equipment; vesting of title to facilities

##### § 512. Limitation on cost of construction and equipment; vesting of title to facilities

The Administrator is authorized, in implementation of the unitary plan, to construct and equip transsonic or supersonic wind tunnels of a size, design and character adequate for the efficient conduct of experimental work in support of long-range fundamental research at educational institutions within the continental United States, to be selected by the Administrator, or to enter into contracts with such institutions to provide for such construction and equipment, at a total cost not to exceed $10,000,000: *Provided*, That the Administrator may, in his discretion, after consultation with the Committees on Armed Services of both Houses of the Congress, vest title to the facilities completed pursuant to this section in such educational institutions under such terms and conditions as may be deemed in the best interests of the United States.

*([Oct. 27, 1949, ch. 766](/us/act/1949-10-27/ch766), title I, § 102, [63 Stat. 936](/us/stat/63/936); [Pub. L. 85–568, title III, § 301(d)(2)](/us/pl/85/568/tIII/s301/d/2), (3), July 29, 1958, [72 Stat. 433](/us/stat/72/433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1958—[Pub. L. 85–568](/us/pl/85/568) substituted “Administrator” for “Committee” in three places, and “his” for “its”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 85–568](/us/pl/85/568) effective 90 days after July 29, 1958, or on any earlier date on which the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration determines, and announces by proclamation, that the Administration has been organized and is prepared to discharge the duties and exercise the powers conferred upon it, see [section 301(e) of Pub. L. 85–568](/us/pl/85/568/s301/e), set out as a note under [section 511 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s511).
