---
title: "§ 5609. Destruction of unregistered stills, distilling apparatus, equipment, and materials"
identifier: "USC-T26-S5609"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section5609"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s201), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1403](/us/stat/72/1403); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)"
---
# § 5609. Destruction of unregistered stills, distilling apparatus, equipment, and materials

##### § 5609. Destruction of unregistered stills, distilling apparatus, equipment, and materials

(a) General In the case of seizure elsewhere than on premises qualified under this chapter of any unregistered still, distilling or fermenting equipment or apparatus, or distilling or fermenting material, for any offense involving forfeiture of the same, where it shall be impracticable to remove the same to a place of safe storage from the place where seized, the seizing officer is authorized to destroy the same. In the case of seizure, other than on premises qualified under this chapter or in transit thereto or therefrom, of any distilled spirits on which the tax has not been paid or determined, for any offense involving forfeiture of the same, the seizing officer is authorized to destroy the distilled spirits forthwith. Any destruction under this subsection shall be in the presence of at least one credible witness. The seizing officer shall make such report of said seizure and destruction and take such samples as the Secretary may require.

(b) Claims Within 1 year after destruction made pursuant to subsection (a) the owner of, including any person having an interest in, the property so destroyed may make application to the Secretary for reimbursement of the value of such property. If the claimant establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary that—

the Secretary shall make an allowance to such claimant not exceeding the value of the property destroyed.

(1) such property had not been used in violation of law; or

(2) any unlawful use of such property had been without his consent or knowledge,

*(Added [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s201), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1403](/us/stat/72/1403); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5609, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 685](/us/stat/68A/685), related to penalty in connection to return of materials used in the manufacture of distilled spirits, prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859). See [section 5605 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5605).

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in prior section 5623, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 687](/us/stat/68A/687), prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859).

#### Amendments

1976—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary” wherever appearing.
