---
title: "§ 21112. Establishment of National ICAC Task Force Program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–401, title I, § 102](/us/pl/110/401/tI/s102), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4233](/us/stat/122/4233); [Pub. L. 112–206, § 5](/us/pl/112/206/s5), Dec. 7, 2012, [126 Stat. 1493](/us/stat/126/1493).)"
---
# § 21112. Establishment of National ICAC Task Force Program

##### § 21112. Establishment of National ICAC Task Force Program

(a) Establishment

(1) In general There is established within the Department of Justice, under the general authority of the Attorney General, a National Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “ICAC Task Force Program”), which shall consist of a national program of State and local law enforcement task forces dedicated to developing effective responses to online enticement of children by sexual predators, child exploitation, and child obscenity and pornography cases.

(2) Intent of Congress It is the purpose and intent of Congress that the ICAC Task Force Program established under paragraph (1) is intended to continue the ICAC Task Force Program authorized under title I of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, and funded under title IV of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 [[34 U.S.C. 11291](/us/usc/t34/s11291) et seq.].

(b) National program

(1) State representation The ICAC Task Force Program established under subsection (a) shall include at least 1 ICAC task force in each State.

(2) Capacity and continuity of investigations In order to maintain established capacity and continuity of investigations and prosecutions of child exploitation cases, the Attorney General, shall, in establishing the ICAC Task Force Program under subsection (a) consult with and consider all 59 task forces in existence on October 13, 2008. The Attorney General shall include all existing ICAC task forces in the ICAC Task Force Program, unless the Attorney General makes a determination that an existing ICAC 11 So in original. Probably should be “ICAC task force”. does not have a proven track record of success.

(3) Ongoing review The Attorney General shall—

(A) conduct periodic reviews of the effectiveness of each ICAC task force established under this section; and

(B) have the discretion to establish a new task force if the Attorney General determines that such decision will enhance the effectiveness of combating child exploitation provided that the Attorney General notifies Congress in advance of any such decision and that each state 22 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. maintains at least 1 ICAC task force at all times.

(4) Training

(A) In general The Attorney General may establish national training programs to support the mission of the ICAC task forces, including the effective use of the National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System.

(B) Limitation In establishing training courses under this paragraph, the Attorney General may not award any one entity other than a law enforcement agency more than $4,000,000 annually to establish and conduct training courses for ICAC task force members and other law enforcement officials.

(C) Review The Attorney General shall—

(i) conduct periodic reviews of the effectiveness of each training session authorized by this paragraph; and

(ii) consider outside reports related to the effective use of Federal funding in making future grant awards for training.

*([Pub. L. 110–401, title I, § 102](/us/pl/110/401/tI/s102), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4233](/us/stat/122/4233); [Pub. L. 112–206, § 5](/us/pl/112/206/s5), Dec. 7, 2012, [126 Stat. 1493](/us/stat/126/1493).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Title I of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is title I of [Pub. L. 105–119](/us/pl/105/119), Nov. 26, 1997, [111 Stat. 2440](/us/stat/111/2440). For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1109](/us/stat/88/1109). Title IV of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 11291 et seq.) of chapter 111 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1974 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 17612 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s17612), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2012—Subsec. (b)(4)(B). [Pub. L. 112–206](/us/pl/112/206) substituted “$4,000,000” for “$2,000,000”.
