---
title: "§ 3904. Regulatory and other authority"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3904"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3904"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–19, § 5](/us/pl/108/19/s5), Apr. 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 634](/us/stat/117/634).)"
---
# § 3904. Regulatory and other authority

##### § 3904. Regulatory and other authority

(a) In general The President is authorized to and shall as necessary issue such proclamations, regulations, licenses, and orders, and conduct such investigations, as may be necessary to carry out this chapter.

(b) Recordkeeping Any United States person seeking to export from or import into the United States any rough diamonds shall keep a full record of, in the form of reports or otherwise, complete information relating to any act or transaction to which any prohibition imposed under [section 3903(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3903/a) applies. The President may require such person to furnish such information under oath, including the production of books of account, records, contracts, letters, memoranda, or other papers, in the custody or control of such person.

(c) Oversight The President shall require the appropriate Government agency to conduct annual reviews of the standards, practices, and procedures of any entity in the United States that issues Kimberley Process Certificates for the exportation from the United States of rough diamonds to determine whether such standards, practices, and procedures are in accordance with the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. The President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on each annual review under this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 108–19, § 5](/us/pl/108/19/s5), Apr. 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 634](/us/stat/117/634).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For effective date of this section, see [section 15 of Pub. L. 108–19](/us/pl/108/19/s15), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3901).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For assignment of functions of President under this section, see section 2 of Ex. Ord. No. 13312, July 29, 2003, 68 F.R. 45151, set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3901).
