---
title: "§ 1680u. Traditional health care practices"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1680u"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1680u"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 831](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s831), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1680u. Traditional health care practices

##### § 1680u. Traditional health care practices

Although the Secretary may promote traditional health care practices, consistent with the Service standards for the provision of health care, health promotion, and disease prevention under this chapter, the United States is not liable for any provision of traditional health care practices pursuant to this chapter that results in damage, injury, or death to a patient. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to alter any liability or other obligation that the United States may otherwise have under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.) 11 See References in Text note below. or this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 831](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s831), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400), known as the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.), referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which was classified principally to subchapter II (§ 450 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Section 831 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s831) is based on section 199A of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).
