---
title: "§ 8413. Auditing"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8413"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8413"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–73, title I, § 103](/us/pl/111/73/tI/s103), Oct. 15, 2009, [123 Stat. 2069](/us/stat/123/2069).)"
---
# § 8413. Auditing

##### § 8413. Auditing

(a) Assistance authorized The Inspector General of the Department of State, the Inspector General of the United States Agency for International Development, and the inspectors general of other Federal departments and agencies (other than the Inspector General of the Department of Defense) carrying out programs, projects, and activities using amounts appropriated to carry out this subchapter shall audit, investigate, and oversee the obligation and expenditure of such amounts.

(b) Authorization for in-country presence The Inspector General of the Department of State and the Inspector General of the United States Agency for International Development, after consultation with the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, are authorized to establish field offices in Pakistan with sufficient staff from each of the Offices of the Inspector General, respectively, to carry out subsection (a).

(c) Authorization of appropriations

(1) In general Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated under [section 8412 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8412) for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014, up to $30,000,000 for each fiscal year is authorized to be made available to carry out this section.

(2) Relation to other available funds Amounts made available under paragraph (1) are in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.

*([Pub. L. 111–73, title I, § 103](/us/pl/111/73/tI/s103), Oct. 15, 2009, [123 Stat. 2069](/us/stat/123/2069).)*
