---
title: "§ 42304. Widespread disruptions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S42304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section42304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title IV, § 428(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIV/s428/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3341](/us/stat/132/3341).)"
---
# § 42304. Widespread disruptions

##### § 42304. Widespread disruptions

(a) General Requirements.— In the event of a widespread disruption, a covered air carrier shall immediately publish, via a prominent link on the air carrier’s public internet website, a clear statement indicating whether, with respect to a passenger of the air carrier whose travel is interrupted as a result of the widespread disruption, the air carrier will—

(1) provide for hotel accommodations;

(2) arrange for ground transportation;

(3) provide meal vouchers;

(4) arrange for air transportation on another air carrier or foreign air carrier to the passenger’s destination; and

(5) provide for sleeping facilities inside the airport terminal.

(b) Definitions.— In this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) Widespread disruption.— The term “widespread disruption” means, with respect to a covered air carrier, the interruption of all or the overwhelming majority of the air carrier’s systemwide flight operations, including flight delays and cancellations, as the result of the failure of 1 or more computer systems or computer networks of the air carrier.

(2) Covered air carrier.— The term “covered air carrier” means an air carrier that provides scheduled passenger air transportation by operating an aircraft that as originally designed has a passenger capacity of 30 or more seats.

(c) Savings Provision.— Nothing in this section may be construed to modify, abridge, or repeal any obligation of an air carrier under section 42301.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title IV, § 428(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIV/s428/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3341](/us/stat/132/3341).)*
