---
title: "§ 1812. Statement of exclusive means by which electronic surveillance and interception of certain communications may be conducted"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1812"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1812"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–511, title I, § 112](/us/pl/95/511/tI/s112), as added [Pub. L. 110–261, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/110/261/tI/s102/a), July 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 2459](/us/stat/122/2459).)"
---
# § 1812. Statement of exclusive means by which electronic surveillance and interception of certain communications may be conducted

##### § 1812. Statement of exclusive means by which electronic surveillance and interception of certain communications may be conducted

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), the procedures of chapters 119, 121, and 206 of title 18 and this chapter shall be the exclusive means by which electronic surveillance and the interception of domestic wire, oral, or electronic communications may be conducted.

(b) Only an express statutory authorization for electronic surveillance or the interception of domestic wire, oral, or electronic communications, other than as an amendment to this chapter or chapters 119, 121, or 206 of title 18 shall constitute an additional exclusive means for the purpose of subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 95–511, title I, § 112](/us/pl/95/511/tI/s112), as added [Pub. L. 110–261, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/110/261/tI/s102/a), July 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 2459](/us/stat/122/2459).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–511](/us/pl/95/511), Oct. 25, 1978, [92 Stat. 1783](/us/stat/92/1783), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1801) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 110–261](/us/pl/110/261) effective July 10, 2008, except as provided in [section 404 of Pub. L. 110–261](/us/pl/110/261/s404), set out as a Transition Procedures note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1801), see [section 402 of Pub. L. 110–261](/us/pl/110/261/s402), set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1801).
