---
title: "§ 1961. Locally convenient day schools"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1961"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1961"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–608, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/95/608/tIV/s401), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3078](/us/stat/92/3078); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)"
---
# § 1961. Locally convenient day schools

##### § 1961. Locally convenient day schools

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that the absence of locally convenient day schools may contribute to the breakup of Indian families.

(b) Report to Congress; contents, etc. The Secretary is authorized and directed to prepare, in consultation with appropriate agencies in the Department of Health and Human Services, a report on the feasibility of providing Indian children with schools located near their homes, and to submit such report to the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives within two years from November 8, 1978. In developing this report the Secretary shall give particular consideration to the provision of educational facilities for children in the elementary grades.

*([Pub. L. 95–608, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/95/608/tIV/s401), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3078](/us/stat/92/3078); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Department of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Department of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsec. (b), pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b) which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate redesignated Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate by section 25 of Senate Resolution No. 71, Feb. 25, 1993, One Hundred Third Congress.

Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.
