---
title: "§ 5753. Recruitment and relocation bonuses"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5753"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5753"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–411, title I, § 101(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/411/tI/s101/a/1), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/118/2305); amended [Pub. L. 114–323, title IV, § 412(1)](/us/pl/114/323/tIV/s412/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1932](/us/stat/130/1932).)"
---
# § 5753. Recruitment and relocation bonuses

##### § 5753. Recruitment and relocation bonuses

(a)

(1) This section may be applied to—

(A) employees covered by the General Schedule pay system established under subchapter III of chapter 53; and

(B) employees in a category approved by the Office of Personnel Management at the request of the head of an Executive agency.

(2) A bonus may not be paid under this section to an individual who is appointed to or who holds—

(A) a position to which an individual is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, excluding members of the Foreign Service other than chiefs of mission and ambassadors at large;

(B) a position in the Senior Executive Service as a noncareer appointee (as such term is defined under section 3132(a)); or

(C) a position which has been excepted from the competitive service by reason of its confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character.

(3) In this section, the term “employee” has the meaning given that term in section 2105, except that such term also includes an employee described in subsection (c) of that section.

(b) The Office of Personnel Management may authorize the head of an agency to pay a bonus under this section to an individual only if—

(1) the position to which such individual is appointed (as described in paragraph (2)(A)) or to which such individual moves or must relocate (as described in paragraph (2)(B)) is likely to be difficult to fill in the absence of such a bonus; and

(2) the individual—

(A) is newly appointed as an employee of the Federal Government; or

(B)

(i) is currently employed by the Federal Government; and

(ii)

(I) moves to a new position in the same geographic area under circumstances described in regulations of the Office; or

(II) must relocate to accept a position in a different geographic area.

(c)

(1) Payment of a bonus under this section shall be contingent upon the employee entering into a written service agreement to complete a period of employment with the agency, not longer than 4 years. The Office may, by regulation, prescribe a minimum service period for purposes of this section.

(2)

(A) The agreement shall include—

(i) the commencement and termination dates of the required service period (or provisions for the determination thereof);

(ii) the amount of the bonus;

(iii) the method of payment; and

(iv) other terms and conditions under which the bonus is payable, subject to the requirements of this section and regulations of the Office.

(B) The terms and conditions for paying a bonus, as specified in the service agreement, shall include—

(i) the conditions under which the agreement may be terminated before the agreed-upon service period has been completed; and

(ii) the effect of the termination.

(C) The required service period shall commence upon the commencement of service with the agency or movement to a new position or geographic area, as applicable, unless the service agreement provides for a later commencement date in circumstances and to the extent allowable under regulations of the Office, such as when there is an initial period of formal basic training.

(d)

(1) Except as provided in subsection (e), a bonus under this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the annual rate of basic pay of the employee at the beginning of the service period multiplied by the number of years (including a fractional part of a year, as determined under regulations of the Office) in the required service period of the employee involved.

(2) A bonus under this section may be paid as an initial lump sum, in installments, as a final lump sum upon the completion of the full period of service required by the agreement, or in a combination of these forms of payment.

(3) A bonus under this section is not part of the basic pay of an employee for any purpose.

(4) Under regulations of the Office, a recruitment bonus under this section may be paid to an eligible individual before that individual enters on duty.

(e) The Office may authorize the head of an agency to waive the limitation under subsection (d)(1) based on a critical agency need, subject to regulations prescribed by the Office. Under such a waiver, the maximum bonus allowable shall—

Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to permit the waiver of any requirement under subsection (c).

(1) be equal to the maximum that would be determined if subsection (d)(1) were applied by substituting “50” for “25”; but

(2) in no event exceed 100 percent of the annual rate of basic pay of the employee at the beginning of the service period.

(f) The Office shall require that an agency establish a plan for the payment of recruitment bonuses before paying any such bonuses, and a plan for the payment of relocation bonuses before paying any such bonuses, subject to regulations prescribed by the Office.

(g) The Office may prescribe regulations to carry out this section, including regulations relating to the repayment of a bonus under this section in appropriate circumstances when the agreed-upon service period has not been completed.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–411, title I, § 101(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/411/tI/s101/a/1), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/118/2305); amended [Pub. L. 114–323, title IV, § 412(1)](/us/pl/114/323/tIV/s412/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1932](/us/stat/130/1932).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), is set out under [section 5332 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5332).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5753, added [Pub. L. 101–509, title V, § 529 [title II, § 208(a)]](/us/pl/101/509/tV/s529/tII/s208/a), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1427](/us/stat/104/1427), 1458, which related to recruitment and relocation bonuses, was repealed by [Pub. L. 108–411, title I, § 101(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/411/tI/s101/a/1), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/118/2305).

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 114–323](/us/pl/114/323) inserted “, excluding members of the Foreign Service other than chiefs of mission and ambassadors at large” before semicolon at end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 108–411, title I, § 101(d)](/us/pl/108/411/tI/s101/d), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2310](/us/stat/118/2310), provided that: “(1) Effective date.—Except as provided under paragraphs (2) and (3), this section [enacting this section and [section 5754 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5754), repealing former sections 5753 and 5754 of this title, and amending provisions set out as a note under [section 5305 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5305)] shall take effect on the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after the 180th day after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 2004]. “(2) Application to agreements.—A recruitment or relocation bonus service agreement that was authorized under [section 5753 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5753), United States Code, before the effective date under paragraph (1) shall continue, until its expiration, to be subject to such section as in effect on the day before such effective date. “(3) Application to allowances.—Payment of a retention allowance that was authorized under [section 5754 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5754), United States Code, before the effective date under paragraph (1) shall continue, subject to such section as in effect on the day before such effective date, until the retention allowance is reauthorized or terminated (but no longer than 1 year after such effective date).”

#### Incentives for Critical Posts

[Pub. L. 111–32, title XI, § 1115(d)](/us/pl/111/32/tXI/s1115/d), June 24, 2009, [123 Stat. 1906](/us/stat/123/1906), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIII, § 5315](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIII/s5315), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2366](/us/stat/135/2366), provided that: “Notwithstanding sections 5753(a)(2)(A) and 5754(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code, appropriations made available by this or any other Act may be used to pay recruitment, relocation, and retention bonuses under chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code[,] to members of the Foreign Service, other than chiefs of mission and ambassadors at large, who are on official duty in Iraq, Afghanistan, or Pakistan.”

[[Pub. L. 118–47, div. F, title VII, § 7034(k)(1)](/us/pl/118/47/dF/tVII/s7034/k/1), Mar. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 791](/us/stat/138/791), provided that: “The authority contained in section 1115(d) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 ([Public Law 111–32](/us/pl/111/32)) [set out above] shall remain in effect through September 30, 2024.” ]

[[Pub. L. 117–328, div. K, title VII, § 7034](/us/pl/117/328/dK/tVII/s7034)(*l*)(1), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5032](/us/stat/136/5032), provided that: “The authority contained in section 1115(d) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 ([Public Law 111–32](/us/pl/111/32)) [set out above] shall remain in effect through September 30, 2023.” ]
