---
title: "§ 6312. Professional boxing matches conducted on Indian reservations"
identifier: "USC-T15-S6312"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section6312"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–272, § 21](/us/pl/104/272/s21), formerly § 13, Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3313](/us/stat/110/3313); renumbered § 21, [Pub. L. 106–210, § 4(1)](/us/pl/106/210/s4/1), May 26, 2000, [114 Stat. 322](/us/stat/114/322).)"
---
# § 6312. Professional boxing matches conducted on Indian reservations

##### § 6312. Professional boxing matches conducted on Indian reservations

(a) Definitions For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:

(1) Indian tribe The term “Indian tribe” has the same meaning as in [section 5304(e) of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304/e).

(2) Reservation The term “reservation” means the geographically defined area over which a tribal organization exercises governmental jurisdiction.

(3) Tribal organization The term “tribal organization” has the same meaning as in section 5304(*l*) of title 25.

(b) Requirements

(1) In general Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a tribal organization of an Indian tribe may, upon the initiative of the tribal organization—

(A) regulate professional boxing matches held within the reservation under the jurisdiction of that tribal organization; and

(B) carry out that regulation or enter into a contract with a boxing commission to carry out that regulation.

(2) Standards and licensing If a tribal organization regulates professional boxing matches pursuant to paragraph (1), the tribal organization shall, by tribal ordinance or resolution, establish and provide for the implementation of health and safety standards, licensing requirements, and other requirements relating to the conduct of professional boxing matches that are at least as restrictive as—

(A) the otherwise applicable standards and requirements of a State in which the reservation is located; or

(B) the most recently published version of the recommended regulatory guidelines certified and published by the Association of Boxing Commissions.

*([Pub. L. 104–272, § 21](/us/pl/104/272/s21), formerly § 13, Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3313](/us/stat/110/3313); renumbered § 21, [Pub. L. 106–210, § 4(1)](/us/pl/106/210/s4/1), May 26, 2000, [114 Stat. 322](/us/stat/114/322).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1997, see [section 23 of Pub. L. 104–272](/us/pl/104/272/s23), set out as a note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s6301).
