---
title: "§ 1951. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1951"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1951"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–508, title I, § 121](/us/pl/91/508/tI/s121), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1116](/us/stat/84/1116).)"
---
# § 1951. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose

##### § 1951. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose

(a) The Congress finds that certain records maintained by businesses engaged in the functions described in [section 1953(b) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1953/b) have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, and regulatory investigations and proceedings. The Congress further finds that the power to require reports of changes in the ownership, control, and managements of types of financial institutions referred to in [section 1952 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1952) may be necessary for the same purpose.

(b) It is the purpose of this chapter to require the maintenance of appropriate types of rec­ords and the making of appropriate reports by such businesses in the United States where such records or reports have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory investigations or proceedings.

*([Pub. L. 91–508, title I, § 121](/us/pl/91/508/tI/s121), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1116](/us/stat/84/1116).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 91–508, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/91/508/tIV/s401/a), (b), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1125](/us/stat/84/1125), provided that: “(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, titles I, II, and III of this Act and the amendments made thereby [enacting this chapter and sections 1730d and 1829b of this title and section 1051 et seq. of former Title 31, Money and Finance, amending [section 78g of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s78g), Commerce and Trade, and enacting provisions set out as notes under [section 78g of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s78g) and section 1051 of former Title 31] take effect on the first day of the seventh calendar month which begins after the date of enactment [Oct. 26, 1970]. “(b) The Secretary of the Treasury may by regulation provide that any provision of title I or II or any amendment made thereby [enacting this chapter and sections 1730d and 1829b of this title] shall be effective on any date not earlier than the publication of the regulation in the Federal Register and not later than the first day of the thirteenth calendar month which begins after the date of enactment [Oct. 26, 1970].”

#### Short Title of 2014 Amendment

[Pub. L. 113–156, § 1](/us/pl/113/156/s1), Aug. 8, 2014, [128 Stat. 1829](/us/stat/128/1829), provided that: “This Act [amending [section 1958 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1958) and [section 5318 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5318), Money and Finance, and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 1958 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1958)] may be cited as the ‘Money Remittances Improvement Act of 2014’.”

#### Short Title

Title I of [Pub. L. 91–508, title II](/us/pl/91/508/tII) of [Pub. L. 91–508](/us/pl/91/508), titles I and II of [Pub. L. 91–508](/us/pl/91/508), and subchapter II of chapter 53 of Title 31, Money and Finance, have each been popularly known as the “Bank Secrecy Act”. Title I of [Pub. L. 91–508](/us/pl/91/508), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/84/1114), as amended, enacted this chapter, former [section 1730d of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1730d), and [section 1829b of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1829b). Title II of [Pub. L. 91–508](/us/pl/91/508), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1118](/us/stat/84/1118), as amended, also known as the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, enacted chapter 21 (§ 1051 et seq.) of former Title 31, Money and Finance, which was repealed and reenacted as subchapter II of chapter 53 of Title 31, Money and Finance, by [Pub. L. 97–258, § 4(b)](/us/pl/97/258/s4/b), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1067](/us/stat/96/1067), the first section of which enacted Title 31. For complete classification of [Pub. L. 91–508](/us/pl/91/508) to the Code, see Tables.
