---
title: "§ 411. Establishment and operation of experimental plant"
identifier: "USC-T30-S411"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section411"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([June 21, 1950, ch. 338, § 1](/us/act/1950-06-21/ch338/s1), [64 Stat. 248](/us/stat/64/248); [Pub. L. 102–285, § 10(b)](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), May 18, 1992, [106 Stat. 172](/us/stat/106/172).)"
---
# § 411. Establishment and operation of experimental plant

##### § 411. Establishment and operation of experimental plant

The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the United States Bureau of Mines, is authorized and directed to establish, equip, and maintain a research laboratory at Reno, Nevada, for research, investigation, and as a center for information and assistance in matters pertaining to the mining, preparation, metallurgy, use, and conservation of the rare and precious metals of the Sierra Nevada mining region, and pertaining to other problems affecting the mining industry of that region.

*([June 21, 1950, ch. 338, § 1](/us/act/1950-06-21/ch338/s1), [64 Stat. 248](/us/stat/64/248); [Pub. L. 102–285, § 10(b)](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), May 18, 1992, [106 Stat. 172](/us/stat/106/172).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“United States Bureau of Mines” substituted in text for “Bureau of Mines” pursuant to [section 10(b) of Pub. L. 102–285](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1). For provisions relating to closure and transfer of functions of the United States Bureau of Mines, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1).

#### Appropriations

[Act June 21, 1950, ch. 338, § 3](/us/act/1950-06-21/ch338/s3), [64 Stat. 248](/us/stat/64/248), provided that: “In order to carry out the purposes of this Act [enacting this chapter] there is hereby authorized to be appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of (a) $750,000 for the erection and equipment of a building or buildings, including plumbing, lighting, heating, ventilation, general service, experimental equipment and apparatus, the necessary roads, walks, and ground improvements; and (b) $250,000 annually for the maintenance and operation of the experiment station, including personal services, supplies, equipment, and expenses of travel and subsistence.”
