---
title: "§ 3607. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T44-S3607"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section3607"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5921(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5921/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3449](/us/stat/136/3449).)"
---
# § 3607. Definitions

##### § 3607. Definitions

(a) In General.— Except as provided under subsection (b), the definitions under sections 3502 and 3552 apply to this section through section 3616.

(b) Additional Definitions.— In this section through section 3616:

(1) Administrator.— The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of General Services.

(2) Appropriate congressional committees.— The term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives.

(3) Authorization to operate; federal information.— The terms “authorization to operate” and “Federal information” have the meaning given those term 11 So in original. Probably should be “terms”. in Circular A–130 of the Office of Management and Budget entitled “Managing Information as a Strategic Resource”, or any successor document.

(4) Cloud computing.— The term “cloud computing” has the meaning given the term in Special Publication 800–145 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, or any successor document.

(5) Cloud service provider.— The term “cloud service provider” means an entity offering cloud computing products or services to agencies.

(6) FedRAMP.— The term “FedRAMP” means the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program established under section 3608.

(7) FedRAMP authorization.— The term “FedRAMP authorization” means a certification that a cloud computing product or service has—

(A) completed a FedRAMP authorization process, as determined by the Administrator; or

(B) received a FedRAMP provisional authorization to operate, as determined by the FedRAMP Board.

(8) Fedramp authorization package.— The term “FedRAMP authorization package” means the essential information that can be used by an agency to determine whether to authorize the operation of an information system or the use of a designated set of common controls for all cloud computing products and services authorized by FedRAMP.

(9) FedRAMP board.— The term “FedRAMP Board” means the board established under section 3610.

(10) Independent assessment service.— The term “independent assessment service” means a third-party organization accredited by the Administrator to undertake conformity assessments of cloud service providers and the products or services of cloud service providers.

(11) Secretary.— The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Homeland Security.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5921(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5921/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3449](/us/stat/136/3449).)*

#### Repeal of Section

For repeal of section by [section 5921(d)(1) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s5921/d/1), see Effective Date of Repeal note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Oversight and Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Accountability of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.

#### Effective Date of Repeal

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5921(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5921/d/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3458](/us/stat/136/3458), provided that the repeal of this section is effective on the date that is 5 years after Dec. 23, 2022.

#### Construction

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5921(e)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5921/e), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3458](/us/stat/136/3458), provided that: “Nothing in this section [see Short Title of 2022 Amendment note set out under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s101)] or any amendment made by this section shall be construed as altering or impairing the authorities of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget or the Secretary of Homeland Security under subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code.”
