---
title: "§ 833. Completion and maintenance of project; generation of electricity"
identifier: "USC-T16-S833"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section833"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([May 18, 1938, ch. 250, § 1](/us/act/1938-05-18/ch250/s1), [52 Stat. 403](/us/stat/52/403); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 833. Completion and maintenance of project; generation of electricity

##### § 833. Completion and maintenance of project; generation of electricity

For the purpose of improving navigation on the Missouri River, and for other purposes incidental thereto, the dam and appurtenant works now under construction at Fort Peck, Montana, and a suitable power plant for the production of hydroelectric power (which dam, power plant, and appurtenant works are hereinafter called Fort Peck project), shall be completed, maintained, and operated under the direction of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of Engineers, subject to the provisions of this chapter relating to the powers and duties of the Bureau of Reclamation (hereinafter called the Bureau), as provided for in [section 833a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s833a/a), respecting the transmission and sale of electric energy generated at said project. The Secretary of the Army shall provide, construct, operate, maintain, and improve at Fort Peck project such machinery, equipment, and facilities for the generation of electric energy as the Bureau may deem necessary to develop such electric energy as rapidly as markets may be found therefor. The electric energy thus generated and not required for the operation of the dam at such project and the navigation facilities employed in connection therewith shall be delivered to the Bureau for disposition as provided in this chapter.

*([May 18, 1938, ch. 250, § 1](/us/act/1938-05-18/ch250/s1), [52 Stat. 403](/us/stat/52/403); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued military Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Transfer of Functions

Power marketing functions of Bureau of Reclamation, including construction, operation, and maintenance of transmission lines and attendant facilities, transferred to Secretary of Energy by section 7152(a)(1)(E), (3) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and are to be exercised by Secretary through a separate Administration within Department of Energy.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
