---
title: "§ 5943. Rice research"
identifier: "USC-T7-S5943"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section5943"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–214, title II, § 201](/us/pl/94/214/tII/s201), Feb. 16, 1976, [90 Stat. 187](/us/stat/90/187).)"
---
# § 5943. Rice research

##### § 5943. Rice research

(a) Regional and national research programs; rules; purposes The Secretary of Agriculture may, under rules prescribed by such Secretary, carry out regional and national research programs with regard to rice for the following purposes:

(1) to reduce fertilizer and herbicide usage in excess of production needs;

(2) to develop varieties of rice more susceptible to complete fertilizer utilization;

(3) to improve the resistance of rice plants to disease and to enhance their conservation and environmental qualities;

(4) to increase the usage of rice and its processing byproducts;

(5) to develop better husbandry practices in production and conservation of rice;

(6) to develop more efficient rice storage practices;

(7) to improve domestic and international marketing of rice; and

(8) to benefit the general welfare.

(b) Utilization of services of Federal, State, local governmental and private agencies; priority consideration The Secretary shall, in implementing the program authorized in subsection (a), utilize the technical and related services of appropriate Federal, State, local governmental, and private agencies, with priority consideration for land grant universities, State experiment stations, and other agricultural institutions of higher learning.

(c) Authorization of appropriations; use restriction There is authorized to be appropriated not more than $1,000,000 for the period ending September 30, 1976, to carry out the provisions of this section. No funds authorized by this section shall be used for advertising or promotional activities.

*([Pub. L. 94–214, title II, § 201](/us/pl/94/214/tII/s201), Feb. 16, 1976, [90 Stat. 187](/us/stat/90/187).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 428c of this title](/us/usc/t7/s428c) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was enacted as part of the Rice Production Act of 1975, and not as part of subtitle H of title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 which comprises this subchapter.
