---
title: "§ 2012. Establishment of clearinghouse and advisory council"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2012"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2012"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–469, title X, § 1003](/us/pl/109/469/tX/s1003), Dec. 29, 2006, [120 Stat. 3538](/us/stat/120/3538).)"
---
# § 2012. Establishment of clearinghouse and advisory council

##### § 2012. Establishment of clearinghouse and advisory council

(a) Clearinghouse There is established, under the supervision of the Attorney General of the United States, an information clearinghouse to be known as the National Methamphetamine Information Clearinghouse.

(b) Advisory council

(1) In general There is established an advisory council to be known as the National Methamphetamine Advisory Council.

(2) Membership The Council shall consist of 10 members appointed by the Attorney General—

(A) not fewer than 3 of whom shall be representatives of law enforcement agencies;

(B) not fewer than 4 of whom shall be representatives of nongovernmental and nonprofit organizations providing services or training and implementing programs or strategies related to methamphetamines; and

(C) 1 of whom shall be a representative of the Department of Health and Human Services.

(3) Period of appointment; vacancies Members shall be appointed for 3 years. Any vacancy in the Council shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.

(4) Personnel matters

(A) Travel expenses The members of the Council shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Council.

(B) No compensation The members of the Council shall not receive compensation for the performance of the duties of a member of the Council.

*([Pub. L. 109–469, title X, § 1003](/us/pl/109/469/tX/s1003), Dec. 29, 2006, [120 Stat. 3538](/us/stat/120/3538).)*
