---
title: "§ 3194. Individuals eligible for the Job Corps"
identifier: "USC-T29-S3194"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section3194"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 144](/us/pl/113/128/tI/s144), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1539](/us/stat/128/1539); [Pub. L. 114–22, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/114/22/tVI/s604), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 260](/us/stat/129/260).)"
---
# § 3194. Individuals eligible for the Job Corps

##### § 3194. Individuals eligible for the Job Corps

(a) In general To be eligible to become an enrollee, an individual shall be—

(1) not less than age 16 and not more than age 21 on the date of enrollment, except that—

(A) not more than 20 percent of the individuals enrolled in the Job Corps may be not less than age 22 and not more than age 24 on the date of enrollment; and

(B) either such maximum age limitation may be waived by the Secretary, in accordance with regulations of the Secretary, in the case of an individual with a disability;

(2) a low-income individual; and

(3) an individual who is one or more of the following:

(A) Basic skills deficient.

(B) A school dropout.

(C) A homeless individual (as defined in [section 12473(6) of title 34](/us/usc/t34/s12473/6)), a homeless child or youth (as defined in [section 11434a(2) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s11434a/2)), a runaway, an individual in foster care, or an individual who was in foster care and has aged out of the foster care system.

(D) A parent.

(E) An individual who requires additional education, career and technical education or training, or workforce preparation skills to be able to obtain and retain employment that leads to economic self-sufficiency.

(F) A victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons (as defined in [section 7102 of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102)). Notwithstanding paragraph (2), an individual described in this subparagraph shall not be required to demonstrate eligibility under such paragraph.

(b) Special rule for veterans Notwithstanding the requirement of subsection (a)(2), a veteran shall be eligible to become an enrollee under subsection (a) if the individual—

(1) meets the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (3) of such subsection; and

(2) does not meet the requirement of subsection (a)(2) because the military income earned by such individual within the 6-month period prior to the individual’s application for Job 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. Corps prevents the individual from meeting such requirement.

*([Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 144](/us/pl/113/128/tI/s144), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1539](/us/stat/128/1539); [Pub. L. 114–22, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/114/22/tVI/s604), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 260](/us/stat/129/260).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (a)(3)(F). [Pub. L. 114–22](/us/pl/114/22) added subpar. (F).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 (July 1, 2015), see [section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128/s506), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3101).

#### Job Corps Flexibilities During Qualifying Emergency

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tVI/s601), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2091](/us/stat/134/2091), provided that: “(a) Enrollment.—During the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 27, 2020] and ending when all qualifying emergencies have expired, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the requirements described in sections 145(a)(2)(A) and 152(b)(2)(B) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ([29 U.S.C. 3195(a)(2)(A)](/us/usc/t29/s3195/a/2/A), 3202(b)(2)(B)) shall be applicable only for enrollees in the Job Corps—“(1) participating on-site at a Job Corps center; or “(2) returning to on-site participation at a Job Corps center after participating in distance learning. “(b) Eligibility.—During a qualifying emergency or the 1-year period immediately following the expiration of the qualifying emergency, an individual who would be older than the age of 24 on the date the individual enrolls in the Job Corps is eligible to enroll in the Job Corps, notwithstanding section 144(a)(1)(A) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ([29 U.S.C. 3194(a)(1)(A)](/us/usc/t29/s3194/a/1/A)), as long as—“(1) the individual applies for enrollment by the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and is not older than age 24 on the date of application; and “(2) the individual attains the age of 25 during the qualifying emergency or the 1-year period immediately following the expiration of the qualifying emergency. “(c) Qualifying Emergency Defined.—In this section, the term ‘qualifying emergency’ has the meaning given the term in section 3502(a)(4) of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ([Public Law 116–136](/us/pl/116/136) [[20 U.S.C. 1001](/us/usc/t20/s1001) note]).”
