---
title: "§ 13531. General jurisdiction"
identifier: "USC-T49-S13531"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section13531"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 865](/us/stat/109/865).)"
---
# § 13531. General jurisdiction

##### § 13531. General jurisdiction

(a) In General.— The Secretary and the Board have jurisdiction, as specified in this part, over service that a freight forwarder undertakes to provide, or is authorized or required under this part to provide, to the extent transportation is provided in the United States and is between—

(1) a place in a State and a place in another State, even if part of the transportation is outside the United States;

(2) a place in a State and another place in the same State through a place outside the State; or

(3) a place in the United States and a place outside the United States.

(b) Exemption of Certain Air Carrier Service.— Neither the Secretary nor the Board has jurisdiction under subsection (a) of this section over service undertaken by a freight forwarder using transportation of an air carrier subject to part A of subtitle VII of this title.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 865](/us/stat/109/865).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 10561 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s10561) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
