---
title: "§ 7466. Permissive terms in order"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7466"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7466"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 557](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s557), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1070](/us/stat/110/1070).)"
---
# § 7466. Permissive terms in order

##### § 7466. Permissive terms in order

(a) Permissive terms On the recommendation of the Board and with the approval of the Secretary, an order issued under [section 7463 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7463) may include the terms and conditions specified in this section and such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers necessary to effectuate the other provisions of the order and are incidental to, and not inconsistent with, this subchapter.

(b) Alternative payment and reporting schedules The order may authorize the Board to designate different handler payment and reporting schedules to recognize differences in marketing practices and procedures.

(c) Working groups The order may authorize the Board to convene working groups drawn from producers, handlers, importers, exporters, or the general public and utilize the expertise of the groups to assist in the development of research and marketing programs for kiwifruit.

(d) Reserve funds The order may authorize the Board to accumulate reserve funds from assessments collected pursuant to [section 7465(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7465/b) to permit an effective and continuous coordinated program of research, promotion, and consumer information in years in which production and assessment income may be reduced, except that any reserve fund may not exceed the amount budgeted for operation of this subchapter for 1 year.

(e) Promotion activities outside United States The order may authorize the Board to use, with the approval of the Secretary, funds collected under [section 7465(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7465/b) and funds from other sources for the development and expansion of sales in foreign markets of kiwifruit produced in the United States.

*([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 557](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s557), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1070](/us/stat/110/1070).)*
