---
title: "§ 11386d. Matching funding"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11386d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11386d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 430](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s430), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title III, § 1305(3)](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tIII/s1305/3), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/123/1695).)"
---
# § 11386d. Matching funding

##### § 11386d. Matching funding

(a) In general A collaborative applicant in a geographic area in which funds are awarded under this part shall specify contributions from any source other than a grant awarded under this part, including renewal funding of projects assisted under parts C, D, and F of this subchapter as in effect before the effective date under section 1503 of the Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing Act of 2009, that shall be made available in the geographic area in an amount equal to not less than 25 percent of the funds provided to recipients in the geographic area, except that grants for leasing shall not be subject to any match requirement.

(b) Limitations on in-kind match The cash value of services provided to the residents or clients of a project sponsor by an entity other than the project sponsor may count toward the contributions in subsection (a) only when documented by a memorandum of understanding between the project sponsor and the other entity that such services will be provided.

(c) Countable activities The contributions required under subsection (a) may consist of—

(1) funding for any eligible activity described under [section 11383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11383); and

(2) subject to subsection (b), in-kind provision of services of any eligible activity described under [section 11383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11383).

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 430](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s430), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title III, § 1305(3)](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tIII/s1305/3), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/123/1695).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1503 of the Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing Act of 2009, referred to in subsec. (a), is [section 1503 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1503), which is set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 11302 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11302).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of 18 months after May 20, 2009, or 3 months after publication of certain final regulations by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see [section 1503 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1503), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 11302 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11302).
