---
title: "§ 2441. Authority to establish certain contracting, program management, scientific, engineering, and technical positions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2441"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2441"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3241](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3241), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 964](/us/stat/113/964); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3111/b/1), (2), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2169](/us/stat/126/2169); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3145(d)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3145/d), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1071](/us/stat/127/1071); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(b)](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXI/s3111/b), Dec. 20, 2019,"
---
# § 2441. Authority to establish certain contracting, program management, scientific, engineering, and technical positions

##### § 2441. Authority to establish certain contracting, program management, scientific, engineering, and technical positions

The Administrator may, for the purposes of carrying out the responsibilities of the Administrator under this chapter, establish not more than 1,200 contracting, program management, scientific, engineering, and technical positions in the Administration, appoint individuals to such positions, and fix the compensation of such individuals. Subject to the limitations in the preceding sentence, the authority of the Administrator to make appointments and fix compensation with respect to positions in the Administration under this section shall be equivalent to, and subject to the limitations of, the authority under [section 2201(d) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2201/d) to make appointments and fix compensation with respect to officers and employees described in such section. To ensure that the positions established under this section are used, the Administrator, to the extent practicable, shall appoint an individual to such a position to replace the vacancy of a position not established under this section.

*([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3241](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3241), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 964](/us/stat/113/964); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3111/b/1), (2), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2169](/us/stat/126/2169); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3145(d)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3145/d), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1071](/us/stat/127/1071); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(b)](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXI/s3111/b), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1950](/us/stat/133/1950); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. C, title XXXI, § 3114](/us/pl/118/31/dC/tXXXI/s3114), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 790](/us/stat/137/790).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title XXXII of div. C of [Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 953](/us/stat/113/953), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title XXXII to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2401) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2023—[Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) substituted “1,200” for “800”.

2019—[Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) substituted “800” for “600”.

2013—[Pub. L. 113–66](/us/pl/113/66), in last sentence, substituted “positions established” for “excepted positions established”, “a position” for “an excepted position”, and “position not established under this section” for “nonexcepted position”.

[Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239), in section catchline, inserted “contracting, program management,” before “scientific” and, in text, substituted “600 contracting, program management, scientific” for “300 scientific” and inserted at end “To ensure that the excepted positions established under this section are used, the Administrator, to the extent practicable, shall appoint an individual to such an excepted position to replace the vacancy of a nonexcepted position.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 1, 2000, see [section 3299 of Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65/s3299), set out as a note under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2401).
