---
title: "§ 7103. Reconsideration; correction of obvious errors"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1241](/us/stat/72/1241), § 4003; [Pub. L. 100–687, div. A, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/100/687/dA/tII/s202/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4110](/us/stat/102/4110); renumbered § 7103, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 103–271, § 6(a)](/us/pl/103/271/s6/a), July 1, 1994, [108 Stat. 741](/us/stat/108/741); [Pub. L. 115–55, § 2](/us/pl/115/55/s2)(*o*), "
---
# § 7103. Reconsideration; correction of obvious errors

##### § 7103. Reconsideration; correction of obvious errors

(a) The decision of the Board determining a matter under [section 7102 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7102) is final unless the Chairman orders reconsideration of the decision in accordance with subsection (b). Such an order may be made on the Chairman’s initiative or upon motion of the claimant.

(b)

(1) Upon the order of the Chairman for reconsideration of the decision in a case, the case shall be referred—

(A) in the case of a matter originally decided by a single member of the Board, to a panel of not less than three members of the Board; or

(B) in the case of a matter originally decided by a panel of members of the Board, to an enlarged panel of the Board.

(2) A panel referred to in paragraph (1) may not include the member, or any member of the panel, that made the decision subject to reconsideration.

(3) A panel reconsidering a case under this subsection shall render its decision after reviewing the entire record before the Board. The decision of the panel shall be made by a majority vote of the members of the panel. The decision of the panel shall constitute the final decision of the Board.

(c) The Board on its own motion may correct an obvious error in the record, without regard to whether there has been a motion or order for reconsideration.

*([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1241](/us/stat/72/1241), § 4003; [Pub. L. 100–687, div. A, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/100/687/dA/tII/s202/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4110](/us/stat/102/4110); renumbered § 7103, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 103–271, § 6(a)](/us/pl/103/271/s6/a), July 1, 1994, [108 Stat. 741](/us/stat/108/741); [Pub. L. 115–55, § 2](/us/pl/115/55/s2)(*o*), Aug. 23, 2017, [131 Stat. 1111](/us/stat/131/1111).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55) substituted “decided” for “heard” in subpars. (A) and (B).

1994—[Pub. L. 103–271](/us/pl/103/271) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(a) Decisions by a section of the Board shall be made by a majority of the members of the section. The decision of the section is final unless the Chairman orders reconsideration of the case.

“(b) If the Chairman orders reconsideration in a case, the case shall upon reconsideration be heard by an expanded section of the Board. When a case is heard by an expanded section of the Board after such a motion for reconsideration, the decision of a majority of the members of the expanded section shall constitute the final decision of the Board.

“(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Board on its own motion may correct an obvious error in the record.”

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 4003 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4003) as this section.

1988—[Pub. L. 100–687](/us/pl/100/687), in amending section generally, added subsec. (a), struck out former subsec. (a) which provided that determination of section, when unanimous, be final determination of Board, added subsec. (b), struck out former subsec. (b) which provided that when there is disagreement among members of section, concurrence of Chairman with majority of members of section shall constitute final determination of Board, and added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55) applicable to all claims for which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides notice of a decision under [section 5104 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5104) on or after the later of 540 days after Aug. 23, 2017, or 30 days after the date on which the Secretary submits to Congress a certification of certain capabilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs to carry out the new appeals system established by [Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55) and to address appeals of decisions on legacy claims, with provision for early applicability of the new appeals system to certain claims, see [section 2(x) of Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55/s2/x), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s101), and bracketed note thereunder.

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–687](/us/pl/100/687) effective Jan. 1, 1989, see [section 401(d) of Pub. L. 100–687](/us/pl/100/687/s401/d), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 7251 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7251).
