---
title: "§ 701b–7. Supplemental reports to Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and House Public Works Committee"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701b–7"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701b–7"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Jan. 19, 1948, ch. 2, § 2](/us/act/1948-01-19/ch2/s2), [62 Stat. 4](/us/stat/62/4); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 12(d)](/us/pl/103/437/s12/d), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4590](/us/stat/108/4590).)"
---
# § 701b–7. Supplemental reports to Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and House Public Works Committee

##### § 701b–7. Supplemental reports to Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and House Public Works Committee

After the Secretary of Agriculture has submitted to Congress a regular or formal report made on any examination or survey, pursuant to the Flood Control Act approved June 22, 1936, as amended and supplemented, a supplemental, additional, or review report or estimate may be made if authorized by law or by resolution of the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.

*([Jan. 19, 1948, ch. 2, § 2](/us/act/1948-01-19/ch2/s2), [62 Stat. 4](/us/stat/62/4); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 12(d)](/us/pl/103/437/s12/d), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4590](/us/stat/108/4590).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Flood Control Act approved June 22, 1936, as amended and supplemented, referred to in text, is [act June 22, 1936, ch. 688](/us/act/1936-06-22/ch688), [49 Stat. 1570](/us/stat/49/1570), which to the extent classified to the Code enacted sections 701a, 701b, 701c, 701d to 701f, and 701h of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate” for “Committee on Public Works of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Public Works of the Senate”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Public Works and Transportation of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress.
