---
title: "§ 17054. Biofuels distribution and advanced biofuels infrastructure"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17054"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17054"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 248](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s248), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1548](/us/stat/121/1548).)"
---
# § 17054. Biofuels distribution and advanced biofuels infrastructure

##### § 17054. Biofuels distribution and advanced biofuels infrastructure

(a) In general The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation and in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall carry out a program of research, development, and demonstration relating to existing transportation fuel distribution infrastructure and new alternative distribution infrastructure.

(b) Focus The program described in subsection (a) shall focus on the physical and chemical properties of biofuels and efforts to prevent or mitigate against adverse impacts of those properties in the areas of—

(1) corrosion of metal, plastic, rubber, cork, fiberglass, glues, or any other material used in pipes and storage tanks;

(2) dissolving of storage tank sediments;

(3) clogging of filters;

(4) contamination from water or other adulterants or pollutants;

(5) poor flow properties related to low temperatures;

(6) oxidative and thermal instability in long-term storage and uses;

(7) microbial contamination;

(8) problems associated with electrical conductivity; and

(9) such other areas as the Secretary considers appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 248](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s248), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1548](/us/stat/121/1548).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
