---
title: "§ 3369c. Notification of an active measures campaign"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3369c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3369c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6703](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6703), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2223](/us/stat/133/2223).)"
---
# § 3369c. Notification of an active measures campaign

##### § 3369c. Notification of an active measures campaign

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the congressional intelligence committees;

(B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and

(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

(2) Congressional leadership The term “congressional leadership” includes the following:

(A) The majority leader of the Senate.

(B) The minority leader of the Senate.

(C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.

(D) The minority leader of the House of Representatives.

(b) Requirement for notification The Director of National Intelligence, in cooperation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the head of any other relevant agency, shall notify the congressional leadership and the chairman and vice chairman or ranking member of each of the appropriate congressional committees, and of other relevant committees of jurisdiction, each time the Director of National Intelligence determines there is credible information that a foreign power has, is, or will attempt to employ a covert influence or active measures campaign with regard to the modernization, employment, doctrine, or force posture of the nuclear deterrent or missile defense.

(c) Content of notification Each notification required by subsection (b) shall include information concerning actions taken by the United States to expose or halt an attempt referred to in subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6703](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6703), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2223](/us/stat/133/2223).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), see [section 5003 of div. E of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/dE/s5003), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
