---
title: "§ 2581. Defense Environmental Cleanup Account"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2581"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2581"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLIV, § 4401](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLIV/s4401), formerly [Pub. L. 102–190, div. C, title XXXI, § 3134](/us/pl/102/190/dC/tXXXI/s3134), Dec. 5, 1991, [105 Stat. 1575](/us/stat/105/1575); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLIV, § 4401](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLIV/s4401), by [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(g)(2)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/g/2), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1764](/us/stat/117/1764); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3146(e)(1)]("
---
# § 2581. Defense Environmental Cleanup Account

##### § 2581. Defense Environmental Cleanup Account

(a) Establishment There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States for the Department of Energy an account to be known as the “Defense Environmental Cleanup Account” (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Account”).

(b) Amounts in Account All sums appropriated to the Department of Energy for defense environmental cleanup at defense nuclear facilities shall be credited to the Account. Such appropriations shall be authorized annually by law. To the extent provided in appropriations Acts, amounts in the Account shall remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLIV, § 4401](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLIV/s4401), formerly [Pub. L. 102–190, div. C, title XXXI, § 3134](/us/pl/102/190/dC/tXXXI/s3134), Dec. 5, 1991, [105 Stat. 1575](/us/stat/105/1575); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLIV, § 4401](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLIV/s4401), by [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(g)(2)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/g/2), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1764](/us/stat/117/1764); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3146(e)(1)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3146/e/1), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1075](/us/stat/127/1075).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 7274f of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7274f), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 108–136](/us/pl/108/136).

#### Amendments

2013—[Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(e)(1)(A)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/e/1/A), substituted “Cleanup” for “Restoration and Waste Management” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(e)(1)(B)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/e/1/B), substituted “ ‘Defense Environmental Cleanup Account’ ” for “ ‘Defense Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Account’ ”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(e)(1)(C)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/e/1/C), substituted “defense environmental cleanup” for “environmental restoration and waste management”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Classification of Defense Environmental Cleanup as Capital Asset Projects or Operations Activities

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. C, title XXXI, § 3123](/us/pl/116/283/dC/tXXXI/s3123), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4381](/us/stat/134/4381), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environmental Management, in consultation with other appropriate officials of the Department of Energy, shall establish requirements for the classification of defense environmental cleanup projects as capital asset projects or operations activities. “(b) Report Required.—Not later than March 1, 2021, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a report—“(1) setting forth the requirements established under subsection (a); and “(2) assessing whether any ongoing defense environmental cleanup projects should be reclassified based on those requirements.”
