---
title: "§ 701b–2. Cooperation by Secretaries of the Army and Agriculture; expenditures"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701b–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701b–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([June 28, 1938, ch. 795, § 5](/us/act/1938-06-28/ch795/s5), [52 Stat. 1223](/us/stat/52/1223); [Aug. 18, 1941, ch. 377, § 8](/us/act/1941-08-18/ch377/s8), [55 Stat. 650](/us/stat/55/650); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 701b–2. Cooperation by Secretaries of the Army and Agriculture; expenditures

##### § 701b–2. Cooperation by Secretaries of the Army and Agriculture; expenditures

In carrying out the purposes of the Act of June 22, 1936 ([49 Stat. 1570](/us/stat/49/1570)), as amended and supplemented, the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of Agriculture are authorized to cooperate with institutions, organizations, and individuals, and to utilize the services of Federal, State, and other public agencies, and to pay by check to the cooperating public agency, either in advance or upon the furnishing or performance of said services, all or part of the estimated or actual cost thereof; and to make expenditures for personal services and rent in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, for purchase of reference and law books and periodicals, for printing and binding, for the purchase, exchange, operation, and maintenance of motor-propelled passenger-carrying vehicles and motorboats for official use, and for other necessary expenses. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to any funds heretofore appropriated for the prosecution by the Secretary of Agriculture of works of improvement for measures of run-off and water-flow retardation and soil-erosion prevention upon watersheds.

*([June 28, 1938, ch. 795, § 5](/us/act/1938-06-28/ch795/s5), [52 Stat. 1223](/us/stat/52/1223); [Aug. 18, 1941, ch. 377, § 8](/us/act/1941-08-18/ch377/s8), [55 Stat. 650](/us/stat/55/650); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 22, 1936 ([49 Stat. 1570](/us/stat/49/1570)), as amended and supplemented, referred to in text, is [act June 22, 1936, ch. 688](/us/act/1936-06-22/ch688), [49 Stat. 1570](/us/stat/49/1570), popularly known as the Flood Control Act of June 22, 1936, which to the extent classified to the Code enacted sections 701a, 701b, 701c, 701d to 701f, and 701h of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

1941—Act Aug. 18, 1941, changed the reference near the beginning of section and inserted sentence at end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers, agencies and employees of Department of Agriculture transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Agriculture by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1953, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
