---
title: "§ 8168. Annual reports"
identifier: "USC-T38-S8168"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section8168"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added Pub. L. 112—154, title II, § 211(i)(1), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1181](/us/stat/126/1181); amended [Pub. L. 114–226, § 3(c)(2)](/us/pl/114/226/s3/c/2), Sept. 29, 2016, [130 Stat. 931](/us/stat/130/931).)"
---
# § 8168. Annual reports

##### § 8168. Annual reports

(a) Report on Administration of Leases.—

(1) Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of the Honoring America’s Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 and not less frequently than once each year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional veterans’ affairs committees, the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and the Committees on the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on enhanced-use leases.

(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:

(A) Identification of the actions taken by the Secretary to implement and administer enhanced-use leases.

(B) For the most recent fiscal year covered by the report, the amounts deposited into the Medical Care Collection Fund account that were derived from enhanced-use leases.

(C) Identification of the actions taken by the Secretary using the amounts described in subparagraph (B).

(D) Documents of the Department supporting the contents of the report described in subparagraphs (A) through (C).

(b) Report on Lease Consideration.—

(1) Each year, as part of the annual budget submission of the President to the congressional veterans’ affairs committees, the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and the Committees on the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Senate under [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional veterans’ affairs committees, the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and the Committees on the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Senate a detailed report of the consideration received by the Secretary for each enhanced-use lease under this subchapter.

(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the following with respect to each enhanced-use lease covered by the report:

(A) An overview of how the Secretary is using consideration received by the Secretary under the lease to support veterans.

(B) The amount of consideration received by the Secretary under the lease.

(C) The amount of any revenues collected by the Secretary relating to the lease not covered by subparagraph (B), including a description of any in-kind assistance or services provided by the lessee to the Secretary or to veterans under an agreement entered into by the Secretary pursuant to any provision of law.

(D) The costs to the Secretary of carrying out the lease.

(E) Documents of the Department supporting the contents of the report described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).

*(Added Pub. L. 112—154, title II, § 211(i)(1), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1181](/us/stat/126/1181); amended [Pub. L. 114–226, § 3(c)(2)](/us/pl/114/226/s3/c/2), Sept. 29, 2016, [130 Stat. 931](/us/stat/130/931).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Honoring America’s Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 112–154](/us/pl/112/154), which was approved Aug. 6, 2012.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8168, added [Pub. L. 102–86, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/102/86/tIV/s401/a), Aug. 14, 1991, [105 Stat. 421](/us/stat/105/421), limited number of enhanced-use leases that could be entered into under this subchapter, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 105–114, title II, § 205(b)(1)](/us/pl/105/114/tII/s205/b/1), Nov. 21, 1997, [111 Stat. 2288](/us/stat/111/2288).

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–226, § 3(c)(2)(A)](/us/pl/114/226/s3/c/2/A), substituted “to the congressional veterans’ affairs committees, the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and the Committees on the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Senate” for “to Congress” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–226, § 3(c)(2)(B)](/us/pl/114/226/s3/c/2/B), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “a report on enhanced-use leases.” for “a report identifying the actions taken by the Secretary to implement and administer enhanced-use leases.”, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–226, § 3(c)(2)(C)](/us/pl/114/226/s3/c/2/C), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “this subchapter.” for “this subchapter, along with an overview of how the Secretary is utilizing such consideration to support veterans.”, and added par. (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Elements of Initial Report

Pub. L. 112—154, title II, § 211(i)(2), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1182](/us/stat/126/1182), provided that: “The first report submitted by the Secretary under [section 8168(a) of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s8168/a), United States Code, as added by paragraph (1) [and prior to amendment by [Pub. L. 114–226](/us/pl/114/226)], shall include a summary of those measures the Secretary is taking to address the following recommendations from the February 9, 2012, audit report of the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General on enhanced-use leases under subchapter V of chapter 81 of title 38, United States Code: “(A) Improve standards to ensure complete lease agreements are negotiated in line with strategic goals of the Department of Veterans Affairs. “(B) Institute improved policies and procedures to govern activities such as monitoring enhanced-use lease projects and calculating, classifying, and reporting on enhanced-use lease benefits and expenses. “(C) Recalculate and update enhanced-use lease expenses and benefits reported in the most recent Enhanced-Use Lease Consideration Report of the Department. “(D) Establish improved oversight mechanisms to ensure major enhanced-use lease project decisions are documented and maintained in accordance with policy. “(E) Establish improved criteria to measure timeliness and performance in enhanced-use lease project development and execution. “(F) Establish improved criteria and guidelines for assessing projects to determine whether they are or remain viable candidates for enhanced-use leases.”
