---
title: "§ 8502. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–102, title II, § 202](/us/pl/96/102/tII/s202), Nov. 5, 1979, [93 Stat. 757](/us/stat/93/757).)"
---
# § 8502. Definitions

##### § 8502. Definitions

(1) The term “severe energy supply interruption”, when used with respect to motor fuel or any other energy source, means a national energy supply shortage of such energy source which the President determines—

(A) is, or is likely to be, of significant scope and duration;

(B) may cause major adverse impact on national security or the national economy; and

(C) results, or is likely to result, from an interruption in the energy supplies of the United States, including supplies of imported petroleum products, or from sabotage or an act of God.

(2) The term “international energy program” has the meaning given that term in [section 6202(7) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6202/7).

(3) The term “motor fuel” means gasoline and diesel fuel.

(4) The term “person” includes (A) any individual, (B) any corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, trust, joint venture, or joint stock company, and (C) the government or any agency of the United States or any State or political subdivision thereof.

(5) The term “vehicle” means any vehicle propelled by motor fuel and manufactured primarily for use on public streets, roads, and highways.

(6) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Energy.

(7) The term “Governor” means the chief executive officer of a State.

(8) The term “State” means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 96–102, title II, § 202](/us/pl/96/102/tII/s202), Nov. 5, 1979, [93 Stat. 757](/us/stat/93/757).)*
