---
title: "§ 70304. Travel advisories on security at foreign ports"
identifier: "USC-T46-S70304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section70304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 10(2)](/us/pl/109/304/s10/2), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1684](/us/stat/120/1684).)"
---
# § 70304. Travel advisories on security at foreign ports

##### § 70304. Travel advisories on security at foreign ports

(a) General Requirements.— On being notified by the Secretary that the Secretary has determined that a condition exists that threatens the safety or security of passengers, passenger vessels, or crew traveling to or from a foreign port that the Secretary has determined under [section 70303(b) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s70303/b) does not maintain and administer effective security measures, the Secretary of State immediately shall issue a travel advisory for that port. The Secretary of State shall take the necessary steps to widely publicize the travel advisory.

(b) Lifting Advisories.— A travel advisory issued under subsection (a) may be lifted only if the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has determined that effective security measures are maintained and administered at the port.

(c) Notice to Congress.— The Secretary of State shall notify Congress immediately of any change in the status of a travel advisory issued under this section.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 10(2)](/us/pl/109/304/s10/2), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1684](/us/stat/120/1684).)*

In subsection (b), the words “with respect to which the Secretary of Transportation had made the determination described in section 1803(d) of this Appendix” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 70304 | 46 App.:1804. | Pub. L. 99–399, title IX, § 908, Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 891; Pub. L. 105–277, div. G, title XXII, § 2224(b), Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–819. |
