---
title: "§ 1592e. Interagency transfers of property; application of rules and regulations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1592e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1592e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title III, § 306, [65 Stat. 306](/us/stat/65/306); [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)"
---
# § 1592e. Interagency transfers of property; application of rules and regulations

##### § 1592e. Interagency transfers of property; application of rules and regulations

Any Federal agency may, upon request of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, transfer to his jurisdiction without reimbursement any lands, improved or unimproved, or other property real or personal, considered by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to be needed or useful for housing or community facilities, or both, to be provided under this subchapter, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is authorized to accept any such transfers. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may also utilize any other real or personal property under his jurisdiction for the purpose of this subchapter without adjustment of the appropriations or funds involved. Any property so transferred or utilized, and any funds in connection therewith, shall be subject only to the authorizations and limitations of this subchapter. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, in his discretion, upon request of the Secretary of Defense or his designee, transfer to the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense without reimbursement any land, improvements, housing, or community facilities constructed or acquired under the provisions of this subchapter and considered by the Department of Defense to be required for the purposes of the said Department. Upon the transfer of any such property to the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, the laws, rules, and regulations relating to property of the Department of Defense shall be applicable to the property so transferred, and the provisions of this subchapter and the rules and regulations issued thereunder shall no longer apply.

*([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title III, § 306, [65 Stat. 306](/us/stat/65/306); [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see note set out under [section 1581 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1581).
