---
title: "§ 4713. Armed services ballast water programs"
identifier: "USC-T16-S4713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section4713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–646, title I, § 1103](/us/pl/101/646/tI/s1103), as added [Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(d)](/us/pl/104/332/s2/d), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4083](/us/stat/110/4083).)"
---
# § 4713. Armed services ballast water programs

##### § 4713. Armed services ballast water programs

(a) Department of Defense vessels Subject to operational conditions, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary, the Task Force, and the International Maritime Organization, shall implement a ballast water management program for seagoing vessels of the Department of Defense to minimize the risk of introduction of nonindigenous species from releases of ballast water.

(b) Coast Guard vessels Subject to operational conditions, the Secretary, in consultation with the Task Force and the International Maritime Organization, shall implement a ballast water management program for seagoing vessels of the Coast Guard to minimize the risk of introduction of nonindigenous species from releases of ballast water.

*([Pub. L. 101–646, title I, § 1103](/us/pl/101/646/tI/s1103), as added [Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(d)](/us/pl/104/332/s2/d), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4083](/us/stat/110/4083).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
