---
title: "§ 5565. Encouraging the development of plans for converting certain rail passenger terminals"
identifier: "USC-T49-S5565"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section5565"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 853](/us/stat/108/853); [Pub. L. 103–429, § 6(15)](/us/pl/103/429/s6/15), Oct. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 4379](/us/stat/108/4379).)"
---
# § 5565. Encouraging the development of plans for converting certain rail passenger terminals

##### § 5565. Encouraging the development of plans for converting certain rail passenger terminals

(a) General Grant Authority.— The Secretary of Transportation may make a grant of financial assistance to a qualified person (including a governmental authority) to encourage the development of plans for converting a rail passenger terminal under [section 5562(a)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s5562/a/4). To receive assistance under this section, the person must—

(1) be prepared to develop practicable plans that meet zoning, land use, and other requirements of the applicable State and local jurisdictions in which the terminal is located;

(2) incorporate into the designs and plans proposed for converting the terminal, features that reasonably appear likely to attract private investors willing to carry out the planned conversion and its subsequent maintenance and operation; and

(3) complete the designs and plans for the conversion within the period of time prescribed by the Secretary.

(b) Preference.— In making a grant under this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall give preferential consideration to an applicant whose completed designs and plans will be carried out within 3 years after their completion.

(c) Maximizing Conversion and Continued Public Use.—

(1) Amounts appropriated to carry out this section and [section 5562(a)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s5562/a/4) shall be expended in the way most likely to maximize the conversion and continued public use of rail passenger terminals that are—

(A) listed in the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the Secretary of the Interior; or

(B) recommended (on the basis of architectural integrity and quality) by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation or the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts.

(2) The Secretary of Transportation may not make a grant under this section for more than 80 percent of the total cost of the project for which the financial assistance is provided.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 853](/us/stat/108/853); [Pub. L. 103–429, § 6(15)](/us/pl/103/429/s6/15), Oct. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 4379](/us/stat/108/4379).)*

In subsection (a), before clause (1), the word “authority” is substituted for “entity” for consistency in the revised title. The words “in accordance with regulations” are omitted as unnecessary because of 49:322(a). In clause (1), the words “as well as requirements . . . under this subsection” are omitted as unnecessary because of the restatement. In clause (2), the words “into an intermodal transportation terminal, a civic or cultural center, or both” are omitted as unnecessary. In clause (3), the word “prescribed” is substituted for “establishes” as being more appropriate.

In subsection (b), the words “carried out” are substituted for “implemented and effectuated” for consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (c)(2), the words “The Secretary of Transportation may not make a grant” are substituted for “The amount of the Federal share of any grant . . . shall not exceed” for clarity and consistency in this chapter. The word “undertaking” is omitted as being included in “project”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Pub. L. 103–272 |  |  |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 5565(a) | 49 App.:1653(i)(5) (1st sentence). | Oct. 15, 1966, Pub. L. 89–670, 80 Stat. 931, § 4(i)(5); added Oct. 28, 1974, Pub. L. 93–496, §§ 6, 15, 88 Stat. 1529, 1533; Feb. 5, 1976, Pub. L. 94–210, § 707(3), 90 Stat. 125; Oct. 5, 1978, Pub. L. 95–421, § 14, 92 Stat. 929; Sept. 29, 1979, Pub. L. 96–73, § 128, 93 Stat. 553; May 30, 1980, Pub. L. 96–254, § 206(a), 94 Stat. 412. |
| 5565(b) | 49 App.:1653(i)(5) (2d sentence). |  |
| 5565(c) | 49 App.:1653(i)(5) (3d, last sentences). |  |

#### [Pub. L. 103–429](/us/pl/103/429)

This amends 49:5565 to correct an erroneous section catchline.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–429](/us/pl/103/429) inserted “certain” after “converting” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–429](/us/pl/103/429) effective July 5, 1994, see [section 9 of Pub. L. 103–429](/us/pl/103/429/s9), set out as a note under [section 321 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s321).
