---
title: "§ 1907. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1907"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1907"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–120, title VIII, § 808](/us/pl/106/120/tVIII/s808), Dec. 3, 1999, [113 Stat. 1632](/us/stat/113/1632).)"
---
# § 1907. Definitions

##### § 1907. Definitions

(1) Entity The term “entity” means a partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, organization, network, group, or subgroup, or any form of business collaboration.

(2) Foreign person The term “foreign person” means any citizen or national of a foreign state or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States, but does not include a foreign state.

(3) Narcotics trafficking The term “narcotics trafficking” means any illicit activity to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance, or transport narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals, or otherwise endeavor or attempt to do so, or to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others to do so.

(4) Narcotic drug; controlled substance; listed chemical The terms “narcotic drug”, “controlled substance”, and “listed chemical” have the meanings given those terms in [section 802 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s802).

(5) Person The term “person” means an individual or entity.

(6) United States person The term “United States person” means any United States citizen or national, permanent resident alien, an entity organized under the laws of the United States (including its foreign branches), or any person within the United States.

(7) Significant foreign narcotics trafficker The term “significant foreign narcotics trafficker” means any foreign person that plays a significant role in international narcotics trafficking, that the President has determined to be appropriate for sanctions pursuant to this chapter, and that the President has publicly identified in the report required under subsection (b) or (h)(1) of [section 1903 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1903).

*([Pub. L. 106–120, title VIII, § 808](/us/pl/106/120/tVIII/s808), Dec. 3, 1999, [113 Stat. 1632](/us/stat/113/1632).)*
