---
title: "§ 3667. Liquors and related property; definitions"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3667"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3667"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 840](/us/stat/62/840), § 3615; renumbered § 3667, [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/1), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 1987](/us/stat/98/1987).)"
---
# § 3667. Liquors and related property; definitions

##### § 3667. Liquors and related property; definitions

All liquor involved in any violation of sections 1261–1265 of this title, the containers of such liquor, and every vehicle or vessel used in the transportation thereof, shall be seized and forfeited and such property or its proceeds disposed of in accordance with the laws relating to seizures, forfeitures, and dispositions of property or proceeds, for violation of the internal-revenue laws.

As used in this section, “vessel” includes every description of watercraft used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation in water or in water and air; “vehicle” includes animals and every description of carriage or other contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on land or through the air.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 840](/us/stat/62/840), § 3615; renumbered § 3667, [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/1), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 1987](/us/stat/98/1987).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on sections 222 and 224 of title 27, U.S.C., 1940 ed., Intoxicating Liquors ([June 25, 1936, ch. 815](/us/act/1936-06-25/ch815), §§ 2, 4, [49 Stat. 1928](/us/stat/49/1928)).

Section consolidates sections 222 and 224 of title 27, U.S.C., 1940 ed., with changes in phraseology and arrangement necessary to effect the consolidation. Said section 222 is also incorporated in [section 1262 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1262).

Definition of “State” in [section 222 of title 27](/us/usc/t27/s222) U.S.C., 1940 ed., as meaning and including “every State, Territory, and Possession of the United States,” was omitted because the words “Territory, District,” and so forth, appear after “State” in sections 1262, 1265, of this title, which are the only sections in chapter 59, constituting sections 1261–1265 of this title, to which such definition would have been applicable.

Changes made in phraseology.
