---
title: "§ 6301. Purpose; definitions"
identifier: "USC-T38-S6301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section6301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–233, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/109/233/tIV/s402/a), June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 407](/us/stat/120/407); amended [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title XVII, § 1710](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tXVII/s1710), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 494](/us/stat/122/494); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 926(a)(58)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s926/a/58), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3830](/us/stat/134/3830); [Pub. L. 117–205, § 2(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/205/s2/b/2), Oct. 17, 2022, [136 Stat. 2233](/us/stat/136/2233).)"
---
# § 6301. Purpose; definitions

##### § 6301. Purpose; definitions

(a) Purpose.— The Congress declares that—

(1) the outreach services program authorized by this subchapter is for the purpose of ensuring that all veterans (especially those who have been recently discharged or released from active military, naval, air, or space service, or from a reserve component, and those who are eligible for readjustment or other benefits and services under laws administered by the Department) are provided timely and appropriate assistance to aid and encourage them in applying for and obtaining such benefits and services in order that they may achieve a rapid social and economic readjustment to civilian life and obtain a higher standard of living for themselves and their dependents; and

(2) the outreach services program authorized by this subchapter is for the purpose of charging the Department with the affirmative duty of seeking out eligible veterans and eligible dependents and providing them with such services.

(b) Definitions.— For the purposes of this subchapter—

(1) the term “outreach” means the act or process of reaching out in a systematic manner to proactively provide information, services, and benefits counseling to veterans, and to the spouses, children, and parents of veterans who may be eligible to receive benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary, to ensure that such individuals are fully informed about, and receive assistance in applying for, such benefits;

(2) the term “other governmental programs” includes all programs under State or local laws as well as all programs under Federal law other than those authorized by this title; and

(3) the term “eligible dependent” means a spouse, surviving spouse, child, or dependent parent of a person who served in the active military, naval, air, or space service.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–233, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/109/233/tIV/s402/a), June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 407](/us/stat/120/407); amended [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title XVII, § 1710](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tXVII/s1710), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 494](/us/stat/122/494); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 926(a)(58)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s926/a/58), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3830](/us/stat/134/3830); [Pub. L. 117–205, § 2(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/205/s2/b/2), Oct. 17, 2022, [136 Stat. 2233](/us/stat/136/2233).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 7721 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7721) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–233](/us/pl/109/233).

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–205](/us/pl/117/205) substituted “this subchapter” for “this chapter” wherever appearing.

2021—Subsecs. (a)(1), (b)(3). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) “air, or space service” for “or air service”.

2008—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 110–181, § 1710(a)](/us/pl/110/181/s1710/a), inserted “, or from a reserve component,” after ”active military, naval, or air service”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–181, § 1710(b)](/us/pl/110/181/s1710/b), added par. (1) and redesignated former pars. (1) and (2) as (2) and (3), respectively.
