---
title: "§ 8152. Annual report"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8152"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8152"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1102(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1102/b/3/A), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 723](/us/stat/109/723).)"
---
# § 8152. Annual report

##### § 8152. Annual report

The Secretary of Labor shall, at the end of each fiscal year, prepare a report with respect to the administration of this chapter. Such report shall be submitted to Congress in accordance with the requirement with respect to submission under section 42 of the Longshore 11 So in original. Probably should be “Longshore and”. Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act ([33 U.S.C. 942](/us/usc/t33/s942)).

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1102(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1102/b/3/A), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 723](/us/stat/109/723).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Report on Affected Employees

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIII, § 5305(a)(5)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIII/s5305/a/5), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3254](/us/stat/136/3254), provided that: “Beginning on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], with respect to each annual report required under [section 8152 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8152), United States Code, the Secretary [of Labor]— “(A) shall include in the report the total number of, and demographics regarding, employees in fire protection activities with illnesses and diseases described in the list (as the list may be updated under this subsection [enacting [section 8143b of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8143b) and provisions set out as notes under [section 8143b of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8143b)] and the amendments made by this subsection), as of the date on which that annual report is submitted, which shall be disaggregated by the specific illness or disease for the purposes of understanding the scope of the problem facing those employees; and “(B) may—“(i) include in the report any information with respect to employees in fire protection activities that the Secretary determines to be necessary; and “(ii) as appropriate, make recommendations in the report for additional actions that could be taken to minimize the risk of adverse health impacts for employees in fire protection activities.”

[“Employee in fire protection activities” and “the list” as used in [section 5305(a)(5) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s5305/a/5), set out above, defined as in subsecs. (a) and (b)(2), respectively, of [section 8143b of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8143b), see [section 5305(a)(2) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s5305/a/2), set out as a Research Cooperation note under [section 8143b of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8143b).]
