---
title: "§ 5903c. Moneys received by Secretary from fossil energy activity; payment into Treasury; reports to House and Senate Committees"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5903c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5903c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–39, title I, § 106](/us/pl/95/39/tI/s106), June 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 184](/us/stat/91/184); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/a), title VII, §§ 703, 707, Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577), 606, 607; [Pub. L. 103–437, § 15(c)(8)](/us/pl/103/437/s15/c/8), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4592](/us/stat/108/4592).)"
---
# § 5903c. Moneys received by Secretary from fossil energy activity; payment into Treasury; reports to House and Senate Committees

##### § 5903c. Moneys received by Secretary from fossil energy activity; payment into Treasury; reports to House and Senate Committees

All moneys received by the Secretary from any fossil energy activity shall be paid into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts, except that on December 1 of each year the Secretary shall provide to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report of all such receipts for the preceding fiscal year, including, but not limited to, the amount and source of such revenues and the program and subprogram activity generating such revenues.

*([Pub. L. 95–39, title I, § 106](/us/pl/95/39/tI/s106), June 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 184](/us/stat/91/184); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/a), title VII, §§ 703, 707, Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577), 606, 607; [Pub. L. 103–437, § 15(c)(8)](/us/pl/103/437/s15/c/8), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4592](/us/stat/108/4592).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Committee on Science, Space, and Technology” for “Committee on Science and Technology”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary”, meaning Secretary of Energy, substituted in text for “Administrator”, meaning Administrator of Energy Research and Development Administration, pursuant to sections 301(a), 703, and 707 of [Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91), which are classified to sections 7151(a), 7293, and 7297 of this title and which terminated Energy Research and Development Administration and transferred its functions and functions of Administrator thereof (with certain exceptions) to Secretary of Energy.
