---
title: "§ 3406. Balloting materials under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act"
identifier: "USC-T39-S3406"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section3406"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–410, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/99/410/tII/s201/a), Aug. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 928](/us/stat/100/928).)"
---
# § 3406. Balloting materials under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act

##### § 3406. Balloting materials under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act

(a) Balloting materials under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (individually or in bulk)—

(1) shall be carried expeditiously and free of postage; and

(2) may be mailed at a post office established outside the United States under [section 406 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s406), unless such mailing is prohibited by treaty or other international agreement of the United States.

(b) As used in this section, the term “balloting materials” has the meaning given that term in section 107 of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–410, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/99/410/tII/s201/a), Aug. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 928](/us/stat/100/928).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 99–410](/us/pl/99/410), Aug. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 924](/us/stat/100/924), which was formerly classified principally to subchapter I–G (§ 1973ff et seq.) of chapter 20 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering in Title 52, Voting and Elections, and is now classified principally to chapter 203 (§ 20301 et seq.) of Title 52. Section 107 of the Act is now classified to [section 20310 of Title 52](/us/usc/t52/s20310). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to elections taking place after Dec. 31, 1987, see [section 204 of Pub. L. 99–410](/us/pl/99/410/s204), set out as a note under [section 20301 of Title 52](/us/usc/t52/s20301), Voting and Elections.
