---
title: "§ 210. Franks and passes; free service to governmental agencies in connection with national defense"
identifier: "USC-T47-S210"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section210"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 210, [48 Stat. 1073](/us/stat/48/1073); [June 25, 1940, ch. 422](/us/act/1940-06-25/ch422), [54 Stat. 570](/us/stat/54/570).)"
---
# § 210. Franks and passes; free service to governmental agencies in connection with national defense

##### § 210. Franks and passes; free service to governmental agencies in connection with national defense

(a) Nothing in this chapter or in any other provision of law shall be construed to prohibit common carriers from issuing or giving franks to, or exchanging franks with each other for the use of, their officers, agents, employees, and their families, or, subject to such rules as the Commission may prescribe, from issuing, giving, or exchanging franks and passes to or with other common carriers not subject to the provisions of this chapter, for the use of their officers, agents, employees, and their families. The term “employees”, as used in this section, shall include furloughed, pensioned, and superannuated employees.

(b) Nothing in this chapter or in any other provision of law shall be construed to prohibit common carriers from rendering to any agency of the Government free service in connection with the preparation for the national defense: *Provided*, That such free service may be rendered only in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe therefor.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 210, [48 Stat. 1073](/us/stat/48/1073); [June 25, 1940, ch. 422](/us/act/1940-06-25/ch422), [54 Stat. 570](/us/stat/54/570).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1940—Act June 25, 1940, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).
