---
title: "§ 9614. Independent accountability mechanism"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9614"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9614"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title I, § 1415](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tI/s1415), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3492](/us/stat/132/3492); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXVII, § 8733](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXVII/s8733), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1960](/us/stat/139/1960).)"
---
# § 9614. Independent accountability mechanism

##### § 9614. Independent accountability mechanism

(a) In general The Board shall establish a transparent and independent accountability mechanism.

(b) Functions The independent accountability mechanism established pursuant to subsection (a) shall—

(1) annually evaluate and report to the Board and Congress regarding compliance with environmental, social, labor, human rights, and transparency standards, consistent with Corporation statutory mandates;

(2) provide a forum for resolving concerns regarding the impacts of specific Corporation-supported projects with respect to such standards; and

(3) provide advice regarding Corporation projects, policies, and practices.

(c) Consolidation of functions Not later than 90 days after December 18, 2025, the Board shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees describing any efficiencies that may be gained through the consolidation of functions of the independent accountability mechanism under the authorities of the Office of the Inspector General of the Corporation under section 1414. 11 See References in Text note below. The report shall include an outline as to how the Inspector General of the Corporation would develop an internal environmental, social, and governance expertise to adequately replace the independent accountability mechanism’s environmental, social, and governance expertise.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title I, § 1415](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tI/s1415), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3492](/us/stat/132/3492); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXVII, § 8733](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXVII/s8733), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1960](/us/stat/139/1960).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

#### Section 1414, referred to in subsec. (c), means [section 1414 of Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254/s1414), div. F, title I, Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3492](/us/stat/132/3492), which amended section 8G of the Inspector General Act of 1978, [Pub. L. 95–452](/us/pl/95/452), formerly § 8E, as added [Pub. L. 100–504](/us/pl/100/504), which was set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, prior to repeal and restatement as [section 415 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s415).

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60) added subsec. (c).
