---
title: "§ 8321. Pest and Disease Response Fund"
identifier: "USC-T7-S8321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section8321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–465, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/108/465/tIV/s401), Dec. 21, 2004, [118 Stat. 3886](/us/stat/118/3886).)"
---
# § 8321. Pest and Disease Response Fund

##### § 8321. Pest and Disease Response Fund

(a) Establishment There is established on the books of the Treasury an account to be known as the “Pest and Disease Response Fund”. There shall be deposited into the Fund any proceeds received by the Secretary of Agriculture as reimbursement for services provided by the Secretary using amounts in the Fund.

(b) Availability Amounts in the Fund shall remain available until expended.

(c) Use of Fund In implementing the Animal Health Protection Act ([7 U.S.C. 8301](/us/usc/t7/s8301) et seq.) and the Plant Protection Act ([7 U.S.C. 7701](/us/usc/t7/s7701) et seq.), the Secretary of Agriculture shall have complete discretion regarding the use of amounts in the Fund to support emergency eradication and research activities in response to economic and health threats posed by pests and diseases affecting agricultural commodities.

(d) Authorization of appropriations For each of the fiscal years 2005 through 2009, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture $1,000,000 for deposit in the Fund.

*([Pub. L. 108–465, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/108/465/tIV/s401), Dec. 21, 2004, [118 Stat. 3886](/us/stat/118/3886).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Animal Health Protection Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is subtitle E (§§ 10401–10418) of title X of [Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 494](/us/stat/116/494), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 8301 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8301) and Tables.

The Plant Protection Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is title IV of [Pub. L. 106–224](/us/pl/106/224), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 438](/us/stat/114/438), which is classified principally to chapter 104 (§ 7701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7701) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004, and not as part of the Animal Health Protection Act which comprises this chapter.
