---
title: "§ 100102. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T54-S100102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section100102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3096](/us/stat/128/3096).)"
---
# § 100102. Definitions

##### § 100102. Definitions

(1) Director.— The term “Director” means the Director of the National Park Service.

(2) National park system.— The term “National Park System” means the areas of land and water described in [section 100501 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s100501).

(3) Secretary.— The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(4) Service.— The term “Service” means the National Park Service.

(5) System.— The term “System” means the National Park System.

(6) System unit.— The term “System unit” means one of the areas described in [section 100501 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s100501).

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3096](/us/stat/128/3096).)*

The term “System unit” is added because various laws relating to the National Park Service apply to any area of land or water administered by the Secretary through the Service regardless of the terms used in those laws. See section 100501 of the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 100102 | no source. |  |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

[Pub. L. 114–289, § 2](/us/pl/114/289/s2), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1482](/us/stat/130/1482), provided that: “In this Act [see Short Title of 2016 Amendment note set out under [section 100101 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s100101)]: “(1) Challenge fund.—The term ‘Challenge Fund’ means the National Park Centennial Challenge Fund established in title I [enacting chapter 1035 of this title and amending [section 6804 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s6804), Conservation]. “(2) Director.—The term ‘Director’ means the Director of the National Park Service. “(3) Endowment.—The term ‘Endowment’ means the Second Century Endowment for the National Park Service established by title II [see Short Title of 2016 Amendment note set out under [section 100101 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s100101)]. “(4) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Interior. “(5) Signature project or program.—The term ‘signature project or program’ means any project or program identified by the Secretary as one that will help prepare the national parks for another century of conservation, preservation, and visitor enjoyment.”
