---
title: "§ 7803. Operation of Service"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7803"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7803"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1249](/us/stat/72/1249), § 4203; renumbered § 7803 and amended [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/a), (b)(1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/404); [Pub. L. 106–117, title III, § 302](/us/pl/106/117/tIII/s302), Nov. 30, 1999, [113 Stat. 1572](/us/stat/113/1572); [Pub. L. 108–422, title VI, § 603](/us"
---
# § 7803. Operation of Service

##### § 7803. Operation of Service

(a) Primary Beneficiaries.— Canteens operated by the Service shall be primarily for the use and benefit of—

(1) veterans hospitalized or domiciled at the facilities at which canteen services are provided; and

(2) other veterans who are enrolled under [section 1705 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1705).

(b) Other Authorized Users.— Service at such canteens may also be furnished to—

(1) personnel of the Department and recognized veterans’ organizations who are employed at a facility at which canteen services are provided and to other persons so employed;

(2) the families of persons referred to in paragraph (1) who reside at the facility; and

(3) relatives and other persons while visiting a person specified in this section.

*([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1249](/us/stat/72/1249), § 4203; renumbered § 7803 and amended [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/a), (b)(1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/404); [Pub. L. 106–117, title III, § 302](/us/pl/106/117/tIII/s302), Nov. 30, 1999, [113 Stat. 1572](/us/stat/113/1572); [Pub. L. 108–422, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/108/422/tVI/s603), Nov. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2397](/us/stat/118/2397).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—[Pub. L. 108–422](/us/pl/108/422) amended text of section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The canteens at hospitals and homes of the Department shall be primarily for the use and benefit of veterans hospitalized or domiciled at such hospitals and homes. Service at such canteens may also be furnished to personnel of the Department and recognized veterans’ organizations employed at such hospitals and homes and to other persons so employed, to the families of all the foregoing persons who reside at the hospital or home concerned, and to relatives and other persons while visiting any of the persons named in this section.”

1999—[Pub. L. 106–117](/us/pl/106/117) struck out subsec. (a) designation and substituted “in this section” for “in this subsection; however, service to any person not hospitalized, domiciled, or residing at the hospital or home shall be limited to the sale of merchandise or services for consumption or use on the premises” and struck out subsec. (b) which read as follows: “Service at canteens other than those established at hospitals and homes shall be limited to sales of merchandise and services for consumption or use on the premises, to personnel employed at such establishments, their visitors, and other persons at such establishments on official business.”

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 4203 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4203) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) substituted “Department” for “Veterans’ Administration” in two places.
