---
title: "§ 1986. Agreements with and other provisions related to the Republic of Palau"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1986"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1986"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–42, div. G, title II, § 207](/us/pl/118/42/dG/tII/s207), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 433](/us/stat/138/433).)"
---
# § 1986. Agreements with and other provisions related to the Republic of Palau

##### § 1986. Agreements with and other provisions related to the Republic of Palau

(a) Bilateral economic consultations United States participation in the annual economic consultations referred to in Article 8 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement shall be by officers or employees of the Federal Government.

(b) Economic Advisory Group

(1) Qualifications A member of the Economic Advisory Group described in Article 7 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement (referred to in this subsection as the “Advisory Group”) who is appointed by the Secretary of the Interior shall be an individual who, by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, is especially qualified in private sector business development, economic development, or national development.

(2) Funds With respect to the Advisory Group, the Secretary of the Interior may use available funds for—

(A) the costs of the 2 members of the Advisory Group designated by the United States in accordance with Article 7 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement;

(B) 50 percent of the costs of the 5th member of the Advisory Group designated by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with the Article described in subparagraph (A); and

(C) the costs of—

(i) technical and administrative assistance for the Advisory Group; and

(ii) other support necessary for the Advisory Group to accomplish the purpose of the Advisory Group.

(3) Reports to Congress Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Advisory Group receives or completes any report required under the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement, or any related subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit the report to the appropriate committees of Congress.

(c) Reports to Congress

(1) In general Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Government of the Republic of Palau completes any report required under the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement, or any related subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit the report to the appropriate committees of Congress.

(2) Notice to Congress Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Government of the Republic of Palau submits a report required under the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement, or any related subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress—

(A) if the report is submitted by the applicable deadline, written notice attesting that the report is complete and accurate; or

(B) if the report is not submitted by the applicable deadline, written notice that the report has not been timely submitted.

*([Pub. L. 118–42, div. G, title II, § 207](/us/pl/118/42/dG/tII/s207), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 433](/us/stat/138/433).)*
