---
title: "§ 20927. Annual report"
identifier: "USC-T52-S20927"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section20927"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 207](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s207), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/116/1677).)"
---
# § 20927. Annual report

##### § 20927. Annual report

(1) A detailed description of activities conducted with respect to each program carried out by the Commission under this chapter, including information on each grant or other payment made under such programs.

(2) A copy of each report submitted to the Commission by a recipient of such grants or payments which is required under such a program, including reports submitted by States receiving requirements payments under subpart 1 of part D of this subchapter, and each other report submitted to the Commission under this chapter.

(3) Information on the voluntary voting system guidelines adopted or modified by the Commission under subpart 3 of this part and information on the voluntary guidance adopted under part B of subchapter III.

(4) All votes taken by the Commission.

(5) Such other information and recommendations as the Commission considers appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 207](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s207), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/116/1677).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in pars. (1) and (2), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 107–252](/us/pl/107/252), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1666](/us/stat/116/1666), known as the Help America Vote Act of 2002, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15327 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15327), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
