---
title: "§ 287b–1. Additional report on other United States contributions to the United Nations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S287b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section287b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–323, title III, § 312](/us/pl/114/323/tIII/s312), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1925](/us/stat/130/1925).)"
---
# § 287b–1. Additional report on other United States contributions to the United Nations

##### § 287b–1. Additional report on other United States contributions to the United Nations

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after December 16, 2016, and annually thereafter, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to Congress a report on all assessed and voluntary contributions with a value greater than $100,000, including in-kind, of the United States Government to the United Nations and its affiliated agencies and related bodies during the previous fiscal year.

(b) Content The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:

(1) The total amount of all assessed and voluntary contributions, including in-kind, of the United States Government to the United Nations and its affiliated agencies and related bodies during the previous fiscal year.

(2) The approximate percentage of United States Government contributions to each United Nations affiliated agency or body in such fiscal year when compared with all contributions to each such agency or body from any source in such fiscal year.

(3) For each such United States Government contribution—

(A) the amount of each such contribution;

(B) a description of each such contribution (including whether assessed or voluntary);

(C) the department or agency of the United States Government responsible for each such contribution;

(D) the purpose of each such contribution; and

(E) the United Nations or its affiliated agency or related body receiving the contribution.

(c) Scope of initial report The first report required under subsection (a) shall include the information required under this section for the previous 3 fiscal years.

(d) Public availability of information Not later than 14 days after submitting a report required under subsection (a), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall post a public version of such report on a text-based, searchable, and publicly available Internet Web site.

*([Pub. L. 114–323, title III, § 312](/us/pl/114/323/tIII/s312), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1925](/us/stat/130/1925).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017, and not as part of [act Dec. 20, 1945, ch. 583](/us/act/1945-12-20/ch583), [59 Stat. 619](/us/stat/59/619), known as the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, which comprises this subchapter.
