---
title: "§ 1395j. Establishment of supplementary medical insurance program for aged and disabled"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1395j"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1395j"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVIII, § 1831, as added [Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s102/a), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 301](/us/stat/79/301); amended [Pub. L. 92–603, title II, § 201(a)(3)](/us/pl/92/603/tII/s201/a/3), Oct. 30, 1972, [86 Stat. 1371](/us/stat/86/1371).)"
---
# § 1395j. Establishment of supplementary medical insurance program for aged and disabled

##### § 1395j. Establishment of supplementary medical insurance program for aged and disabled

There is hereby established a voluntary insurance program to provide medical insurance benefits in accordance with the provisions of this part for aged and disabled individuals who elect to enroll under such program, to be financed from premium payments by enrollees together with contributions from funds appropriated by the Federal Government.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVIII, § 1831, as added [Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s102/a), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 301](/us/stat/79/301); amended [Pub. L. 92–603, title II, § 201(a)(3)](/us/pl/92/603/tII/s201/a/3), Oct. 30, 1972, [86 Stat. 1371](/us/stat/86/1371).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1972—[Pub. L. 92–603](/us/pl/92/603) substituted “aged and disabled individuals” for “individuals 65 years of age or over”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Study Regarding Coverage Under Part B of Medicare for Nonreimbursable Services Provided by Optometrists for Prosthetic Lenses for Patients With Aphakia

[Pub. L. 94–182, title I, § 109](/us/pl/94/182/tI/s109), Dec. 31, 1975, [89 Stat. 1053](/us/stat/89/1053), provided that the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare conduct a study on the appropriateness of reimbursement under the insurance program established by this part for services performed by optometrists with respect to the provision of prosthetic lenses for patients with aphakia and submit such study to Congress not later than 4 months after Dec. 31, 1975.

#### Study To Determine Feasibility of Inclusion of Certain Additional Services Under Part B

[Pub. L. 90–248, title I, § 141](/us/pl/90/248/tI/s141), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 855](/us/stat/81/855), directed Secretary to conduct a study relating to inclusion under the supplementary medical insurance program under this part of services of additional types of licensed practitioners performing health services in independent practice and submit such study to Congress prior to Jan. 1, 1969.
