---
title: "§ 6372a. Guidelines"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6372a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6372a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 400B](/us/pl/94/163/tIII/s400B), as added [Pub. L. 95–619, title III, § 311(a)](/us/pl/95/619/tIII/s311/a), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3249](/us/stat/92/3249).)"
---
# § 6372a. Guidelines

##### § 6372a. Guidelines

(a) Energy audits The Secretary shall, by rule, not later than sixty days after November 9, 1978—

(1) prescribe guidelines for the conduct of the preliminary energy audits for buildings owned by units of local government and public care institutions, including a description of the type, number and distribution of preliminary energy audits of such buildings that will provide a reasonably accurate evaluation of the energy conservation needs of all such buildings in each State, and

(2) prescribe guidelines for the conduct of energy audits.

(b) Implementation of technical assistance programs The Secretary shall, by rule, not later than 90 days after November 9, 1978, prescribe guidelines for State plans for the implementation of technical assistance programs for buildings owned by units of local government and public care institutions. The guidelines shall include—

(1) a description of the factors to be considered in determining which technical assistance programs will be given priority in making grants pursuant to this part, including such factors as cost, energy consumption, energy savings, and energy conservation goals;

(2) a description of the suggested criteria to be used in establishing a State program to identify persons qualified to undertake technical assistance work; and

(3) a description of the types of energy conservation measures deemed appropriate for each region of the Nation.

(c) Revisions Guidelines prescribed under this part may be revised from time to time after notice and opportunity for comment.

*([Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 400B](/us/pl/94/163/tIII/s400B), as added [Pub. L. 95–619, title III, § 311(a)](/us/pl/95/619/tIII/s311/a), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3249](/us/stat/92/3249).)*
