---
title: "§ 1866. Divisions within Foundation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1866"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1866"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([May 10, 1950, ch. 171, § 8](/us/act/1950-05-10/ch171/s8), formerly § 7, [64 Stat. 152](/us/stat/64/152); renumbered § 8 and amended [Pub. L. 90–407](/us/pl/90/407), §§ 4, 6, July 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 363](/us/stat/82/363), 364.)"
---
# § 1866. Divisions within Foundation

##### § 1866. Divisions within Foundation

There shall be within the Foundation such Divisions as the Director, in consultation with the Board, may from time to time determine.

*([May 10, 1950, ch. 171, § 8](/us/act/1950-05-10/ch171/s8), formerly § 7, [64 Stat. 152](/us/stat/64/152); renumbered § 8 and amended [Pub. L. 90–407](/us/pl/90/407), §§ 4, 6, July 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 363](/us/stat/82/363), 364.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8 of act May 10, 1950, which was classified to [section 1867 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1867), was repealed by [Pub. L. 90–407, § 4](/us/pl/90/407/s4), July 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 363](/us/stat/82/363).

#### Amendments

1968—[Pub. L. 90–407, § 6](/us/pl/90/407/s6), substituted provisions that there be within the Foundation such divisions as the Director, in consultation with the Board, may from time to time determine for provisions that, unless otherwise provided by the Board, there be within the Foundation a Division of Medical Research, a Division of Mathematical, Physical, and Engineering Sciences, a Division of Biological Sciences, a Division of Scientific Personnel and Education, and such other divisions as the Board deems necessary.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Consolidation of Directorates

[Pub. L. 96–516, § 18](/us/pl/96/516/s18), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3009](/us/stat/94/3009), directed National Science Foundation to consolidate all Directorates, including Science Education Directorate, under one roof, in present location of central administrative offices, on or before Aug. 1, 1982.

#### Continuation of Existing Offices, Procedures, and Organization of the National Science Foundation

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–407](/us/pl/90/407) intended to continue in effect the existing offices, procedures, and organization of the Foundation, see [section 16 of Pub. L. 90–407](/us/pl/90/407/s16), set out as a note under [section 1862 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1862).
