---
title: "§ 20243. General officers ceasing to occupy positions commensurate with grade"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20243"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20243"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 649](/us/stat/137/649); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521(t)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521/t), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1883](/us/stat/138/1883).)"
---
# § 20243. General officers ceasing to occupy positions commensurate with grade

##### § 20243. General officers ceasing to occupy positions commensurate with grade

(a) General Officers.— Within 60 days after an officer of the Space Force on the Space Force officer list in a general officer grade ceases to occupy a position commensurate with that grade (or commensurate with a higher grade), the Secretary of the Air Force shall transfer or discharge the officer in accordance with whichever of the following the officer elects:

(1) Transfer the officer in grade to the Space Force retired list, if the officer is qualified and applies for the transfer.

(2) Transfer the officer in grade to a Space Force inactive status, if the officer is qualified.

(3) Discharge the officer from the officer’s appointment and, if the officer is qualified and applies therefor, appoint the officer in the grade held by the officer before the officer’s appointment in a general officer grade.

(4) Discharge the officer from the officer’s appointment.

(b) Credit for Service in Grade.— An officer who is appointed under subsection (a)(3) shall be credited with an amount of service in the grade in which appointed that is equal to the amount of prior service in an active status in that grade and in any higher grade.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 649](/us/stat/137/649); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521(t)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521/t), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1883](/us/stat/138/1883).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) struck out “as a” after “held by the officer”.
