---
title: "§ 6707. State variation of local government allocations"
identifier: "USC-T31-S6707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section6707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31001(a)](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31001/a), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1872](/us/stat/108/1872).)"
---
# § 6707. State variation of local government allocations

##### § 6707. State variation of local government allocations

(a) State Formula.— A State government may provide by law for the allocation of amounts among units of general local government in the State on the basis of population multiplied by the general tax effort factors or income gaps of the units of general local government determined under sections 6705(a) and (b) 11 So in original. Probably should be “section 6705(a) and (c)”. or a combination of those factors. A State government providing for a variation of an allocation formula provided under sections 6705(a) and (b) 1 shall notify the Secretary of the variation by the 30th day before the beginning of the first payment period in which the variation applies. A variation shall—

(1) provide for allocating the total amount allocated under sections 6705(a) and (b); ^1 and

(2) apply uniformly in the State.

(b) Certification.— A variation by a State government under this section may apply only if the Secretary certifies that the variation complies with this section. The Secretary may certify a variation only if the Secretary is notified of the variation at least 30 days before the first payment period in which the variation applies.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31001(a)](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31001/a), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1872](/us/stat/108/1872).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6707, [Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1016](/us/stat/96/1016); [Pub. L. 98–185, § 9(c)](/us/pl/98/185/s9/c), Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/97/1312), related to State allocations for units of general local government, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 99–272, title XIV, § 14001(a)(1)](/us/pl/99/272/tXIV/s14001/a/1), (e), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 327](/us/stat/100/327), 329, eff. Oct. 18, 1986.
