---
title: "§ 10721. Establishment of grant program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10721"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10721"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3031](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3031), as added [Pub. L. 115–76, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/76/s3/a), Nov. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/131/1247).)"
---
# § 10721. Establishment of grant program

##### § 10721. Establishment of grant program

(a) Authorization The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance is authorized to enter into a cooperative agreement with or make a grant to an eligible entity for the purpose of improving the identification, investigation, and prosecution of white collar crime (including each category of such crimes set forth in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (b)) by providing comprehensive, direct, and practical training and technical assistance to law enforcement officers, investigators, auditors and prosecutors in States and units of local government.

(b) White collar crime defined For purposes of this subchapter, the term “white collar crime” includes—

(1) high-tech crime, including cyber and electronic crime and related threats;

(2) economic crime, including financial fraud and mortgage fraud; and

(3) Internet-based crime against children and child pornography.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3031](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3031), as added [Pub. L. 115–76, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/76/s3/a), Nov. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/131/1247).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of part MM of title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), which is classified to this subchapter, as the “National White Collar Crime Control Act of 2017”, see [section 3030 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s3030), set out as a Short Title of 1968 Act note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
