---
title: "§ 1833. Treatment of receipt of monetary allowance and other benefits"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1833"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1833"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, § 401(b)](/us/pl/106/419/tIV/s401/b), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1860](/us/stat/114/1860), § 1823; renumbered § 1833, [Pub. L. 108–183, title I, § 102(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/183/tI/s102/a/1), Dec. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 2653](/us/stat/117/2653).)"
---
# § 1833. Treatment of receipt of monetary allowance and other benefits

##### § 1833. Treatment of receipt of monetary allowance and other benefits

(a) Coordination With Other Benefits Paid to the Recipient.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, receipt by an individual of a monetary allowance under this chapter shall not impair, infringe, or otherwise affect the right of the individual to receive any other benefit to which the individual is otherwise entitled under any law administered by the Secretary.

(b) Coordination With Benefits Based on Relationship of Recipients.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, receipt by an individual of a monetary allowance under this chapter shall not impair, infringe, or otherwise affect the right of any other individual to receive any benefit to which such other individual is entitled under any law administered by the Secretary based on the relationship of such other individual to the individual who receives such monetary allowance.

(c) Monetary Allowance Not To Be Considered as Income or Resources for Certain Purposes.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a monetary allowance paid an individual under this chapter shall not be considered as income or resources in determining eligibility for, or the amount of benefits under, any Federal or federally assisted program.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, § 401(b)](/us/pl/106/419/tIV/s401/b), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1860](/us/stat/114/1860), § 1823; renumbered § 1833, [Pub. L. 108–183, title I, § 102(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/183/tI/s102/a/1), Dec. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 2653](/us/stat/117/2653).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1833 was renumbered [section 3733 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3733).

#### Amendments

2003—[Pub. L. 108–183](/us/pl/108/183) renumbered [section 1823 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1823) as this section.
