---
title: "§ 1770. Allotment of space in Federal buildings or Federal land"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1770"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1770"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1934, ch. 750](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch750), title I, § 124, formerly § 25, as added [Pub. L. 86–354, § 1](/us/pl/86/354/s1), Sept. 22, 1959, [73 Stat. 638](/us/stat/73/638); renumbered title I, § 124, [Pub. L. 91–468, § 1(2)](/us/pl/91/468/s1/2), Oct. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 994](/us/stat/84/994); amended [Pub. L. 97–320, title V, § 515](/us/pl/97/320/tV/s515), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1530](/us/stat/96/1530); [Pub. L. 97–457, § 27](/us/pl/97/457/s27), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2510](/us/sta"
---
# § 1770. Allotment of space in Federal buildings or Federal land

##### § 1770. Allotment of space in Federal buildings or Federal land

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon application by any credit union organized under State law or by any Federal credit union organized in accordance with the terms of this chapter, which application shall be addressed to the officer or agency of the United States charged with the allotment of space on lands reserved for the use of, and under the exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction of, the United States or in the Federal buildings in the community or district in which such credit union does business, such officer or agency may in his or its discretion lease land or allot space to such credit union without charge for rent or services if at least 95 percent of the membership of the credit union to be served by the allotment of space or the facility built on the lease land is composed of persons who either are presently Federal employees or were Federal employees at the time of admission into the credit union, and members of their families, and if space is available. For the purpose of this section, the term “services” includes, but is not limited to, the providing of lighting, heating, cooling, electricity, office furniture, office machines and equipment, telephone service (including installation of lines and equipment and other expenses associated with telephone service), and security systems (including installation and other expenses associated with security systems). Where there is an agreement for the payment of costs associated with the provision of space or services, nothing in title 31 or any other provision of law, shall be construed to prohibit or restrict payment by reimbursement to the miscellaneous receipts or other appropriate account of the Treasury.

*([June 26, 1934, ch. 750](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch750), title I, § 124, formerly § 25, as added [Pub. L. 86–354, § 1](/us/pl/86/354/s1), Sept. 22, 1959, [73 Stat. 638](/us/stat/73/638); renumbered title I, § 124, [Pub. L. 91–468, § 1(2)](/us/pl/91/468/s1/2), Oct. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 994](/us/stat/84/994); amended [Pub. L. 97–320, title V, § 515](/us/pl/97/320/tV/s515), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1530](/us/stat/96/1530); [Pub. L. 97–457, § 27](/us/pl/97/457/s27), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2510](/us/stat/96/2510); [Pub. L. 103–160, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2854](/us/pl/103/160/dB/tXXVIII/s2854), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1908](/us/stat/107/1908); [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title X, § 1070(b)(12)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tX/s1070/b/12), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2857](/us/stat/108/2857); [Pub. L. 109–351, title V, § 501](/us/pl/109/351/tV/s501), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1974](/us/stat/120/1974).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1770, [act June 26, 1934, ch. 750, § 20](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch750/s20), [48 Stat. 1222](/us/stat/48/1222), related to separability of provisions and right to alter, amend, or repeal chapter, prior to the amendment of act June 26, 1934, by [Pub. L. 86–354](/us/pl/86/354). See [section 1769 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1769).

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in section 21 of [act June 26, 1934, ch. 750](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch750), as added [July 9, 1937, ch. 471](/us/act/1937-07-09/ch471), [50 Stat. 487](/us/stat/50/487) (formerly classified to [section 1771 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1771)), prior to the amendment and renumbering of act June 26, 1934, by [Pub. L. 86–354](/us/pl/86/354).

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–351](/us/pl/109/351), in section catchline, inserted “or Federal land” after “buildings” and, in text, substituted “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon application by any credit union” for “Upon application by any credit union” and inserted “on lands reserved for the use of, and under the exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction of, the United States or” after “officer or agency of the United States charged with the allotment of space”, “lease land or” after “such officer or agency may in his or its discretion”, and “or the facility built on the lease land” after “credit union to be served by the allotment of space”.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337) made technical correction to [Pub. L. 103–160, § 2854(1)](/us/pl/103/160/s2854/1). See 1993 Amendment note below.

1993—[Pub. L. 103–160, § 2854(2)](/us/pl/103/160/s2854/2), substituted “allot space to such credit union without charge for rent or services if at least 95 percent of the membership of the credit union to be served by the allotment of space is composed of persons who either are presently Federal employees or were Federal employees at the time of admission into the credit union, and members of their families, and if space is available.” for “allot space to such credit union if space is available without charge for rent or services.”

[Pub. L. 103–160, § 2854(1)](/us/pl/103/160/s2854/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337), struck out “at least 95 per centum of the membership of which is composed of persons who either are presently Federal employees or were Federal employees at the time of admission into the credit union, and members of their families,” after “terms of this chapter”.

1983—[Pub. L. 97–457](/us/pl/97/457) inserted “of” after “including installation”.

1982—[Pub. L. 97–320](/us/pl/97/320) inserted definition of “services”, and provided that where there is an agreement for the payment of costs associated with the provision of space or services, nothing in title 31 or any other provision of law shall be construed to prohibit or restrict payment by reimbursement to the miscellaneous receipts or other appropriate account of the Treasury.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

[Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title X, § 1070(b)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tX/s1070/b), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2856](/us/stat/108/2856), provided that the amendment made by that section is effective as of Nov. 30, 1993, and as if included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994, [Pub. L. 103–160](/us/pl/103/160), as enacted.
