---
title: "§ 4028a. Per diem allowance for newly hired members of the Foreign Service"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4028a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4028a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXI, § 7109](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXI/s7109), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2525](/us/stat/138/2525).)"
---
# § 4028a. Per diem allowance for newly hired members of the Foreign Service

##### § 4028a. Per diem allowance for newly hired members of the Foreign Service

(a) Per diem allowance

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), any newly hired Foreign Service employee who is in initial orientation training, or any other training expected to last less than 6 months in the Washington, D.C. area before transferring to the employee’s first assignment overseas or domestically outside the Washington, D.C. area shall, for the duration of such training, receive a per diem allowance at the levels prescribed under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.

(2) Limitation on lodging expenses A newly hired Foreign Service employee may not receive any lodging expenses under the applicable per diem allowance pursuant to paragraph (1) if that employee—

(A) has a permanent residence in the Washington, D.C., area (not including government-supplied housing during such orientation training or other training); and

(B) does not vacate such residence during such orientation training or other training.

(b) Definitions In this section—

(1) the term “per diem allowance” has the meaning given such term in [section 5701 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5701); and

(2) the term “Washington, D.C., area” means the geographic area within a 50-mile radius of the Washington Monument.

*([Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXI, § 7109](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXI/s7109), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2525](/us/stat/138/2525).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, and also as part of the Servicemember Quality of Life Improvement and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, and not as part of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.
