---
title: "§ 1474g. Department of the Interior Nonrecurring Expenses Fund"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1474g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1474g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–42, div. E, title I, § 124](/us/pl/118/42/dE/tI/s124), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 250](/us/stat/138/250).)"
---
# § 1474g. Department of the Interior Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

##### § 1474g. Department of the Interior Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the “Department of the Interior Nonrecurring Expenses Fund” (the Fund): *Provided*, That unobligated balances of expired discretionary funds appropriated for this or any succeeding fiscal year from the General Fund of the Treasury to the Department of the Interior by this or any other Act may be transferred (not later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes for which appropriated) into the Fund: *Provided further*, That amounts deposited in the Fund shall be available until expended, and in addition to such other funds as may be available for such purposes, for information and business technology system modernization and facilities infrastructure improvements and associated administrative expenses, including nonrecurring maintenance, necessary for the operation of the Department or its bureaus, subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget: *Provided further*, That amounts in the Fund may not be obligated without written notification to and the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in conformance with the reprogramming guidelines described in this Act.

*([Pub. L. 118–42, div. E, title I, § 124](/us/pl/118/42/dE/tI/s124), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 250](/us/stat/138/250).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

“This Act”, referred to in text, means div. E of [Pub. L. 118–42](/us/pl/118/42), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 220](/us/stat/138/220), see Definitions note set out below. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “this Act” as used in this section, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 118–42](/us/pl/118/42/s3), set out as a note under [section 1 of Title 1](/us/usc/t1/s1), General Provisions.
