---
title: "§ 291j–1. Loan guarantees and loans"
identifier: "USC-T42-S291j–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section291j–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VI, § 621, as added [Pub. L. 91–296, title II, § 201](/us/pl/91/296/tII/s201), June 30, 1970, [84 Stat. 344](/us/stat/84/344); amended [Pub. L. 93–45, title I, § 108(b)(1)](/us/pl/93/45/tI/s108/b/1), June 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 93](/us/stat/87/93).)"
---
# § 291j–1. Loan guarantees and loans

##### § 291j–1. Loan guarantees and loans

(a) Authority of Secretary

(1) In order to assist nonprofit private agencies to carry out needed projects for the modernization or construction of nonprofit private hospitals, facilities for long-term care, outpatient facilities, and rehabilitation facilities, the Secretary, during the period July 1, 1970, through June 30, 1974, may, in accordance with the provisions of this part, guarantee to non-Federal lenders making loans to such agencies for such projects, payment of principal of and interest on loans, made by such lenders, which are approved under this part.

(2) In order to assist public agencies to carry out needed projects for the modernization or construction of public health centers, and public hospitals, facilities for long-term care, outpatient facilities, and rehabilitation facilities, the Secretary, during the period July 1, 1970, through June 30, 1974, may, in accordance with the provisions of this part, make loans to such agencies which shall be sold and guaranteed in accordance with [section 291j–7 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s291j–7).

(b) Cost limitations

(1) No loan guarantee under this part with respect to any modernization or construction project may apply to so much of the principal amount thereof as, when added to the amount of any grant or loan under part A with respect to such project, exceeds 90 per centum of the cost of such project.

(2) No loan to a public agency under this part shall be made in an amount which, when added to the amount of any grant or loan under part A with respect to such project, exceeds 90 per centum of the cost of such project.

(c) Administrative assistance The Secretary, with the consent of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, shall obtain from the Department of Housing and Urban Development such assistance with respect to the administration of this part as will promote efficiency and economy thereof.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VI, § 621, as added [Pub. L. 91–296, title II, § 201](/us/pl/91/296/tII/s201), June 30, 1970, [84 Stat. 344](/us/stat/84/344); amended [Pub. L. 93–45, title I, § 108(b)(1)](/us/pl/93/45/tI/s108/b/1), June 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 93](/us/stat/87/93).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1973—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 93–45](/us/pl/93/45) extended termination date of guarantee and loan making period in pars. (1) and (2) from June 30, 1973, to June 30, 1974.
