---
title: "§ 4903. Authorization of personnel end strengths"
identifier: "USC-T14-S4903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section4903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 97–295, § 2(20)(A)](/us/pl/97/295/s2/20/A), Oct. 12, 1982, [96 Stat. 1302](/us/stat/96/1302), § 661; amended [Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 105(a)](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s105/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/116/2085); renumbered § 2703, [Pub. L. 114–120, title I, § 101(c)](/us/pl/114/120/tI/s101/c), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 31](/us/stat/130/31); renumbered § 4903, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 121(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s121/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4238](/us/stat/132/42"
---
# § 4903. Authorization of personnel end strengths

##### § 4903. Authorization of personnel end strengths

(a) For each fiscal year, Congress shall authorize the strength for active duty personnel of the Coast Guard as of the end of that fiscal year. Amounts may be appropriated for a fiscal year to or for the use of active duty personnel of the Coast Guard only if the end strength for active duty personnel for that fiscal year has been authorized by law. If at the end of any fiscal year there is in effect a declaration of war or national emergency, the President may defer the effectiveness of any end-strength limitation with respect to that fiscal year prescribed by law for any military or civilian component of the Coast Guard, for a period not to exceed 6 months after the end of the war or termination of the national emergency.

(b)

(1) Congress shall authorize the average military training student loads for the Coast Guard for each fiscal year. That authorization is required for student loads for the following individual training categories:

(A) Recruit and specialized training.

(B) Flight training.

(C) Professional training in military and civilian institutions.

(D) Officer acquisition training.

(2) Amounts may be appropriated for a fiscal year for use in training military personnel of the Coast Guard in the categories referred to in paragraph (1) only if the average student loads for the Coast Guard for that fiscal year have been authorized by law.

*(Added [Pub. L. 97–295, § 2(20)(A)](/us/pl/97/295/s2/20/A), Oct. 12, 1982, [96 Stat. 1302](/us/stat/96/1302), § 661; amended [Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 105(a)](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s105/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/116/2085); renumbered § 2703, [Pub. L. 114–120, title I, § 101(c)](/us/pl/114/120/tI/s101/c), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 31](/us/stat/130/31); renumbered § 4903, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 121(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s121/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4238](/us/stat/132/4238).)*

The words “after fiscal year 1977” are omitted as executed. The word “Amounts” is substituted for “funds” for clarity and consistency.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 661 | 14:ch. 11(note). | Sept. 10, 1976, Pub. L. 94–406, § 6, 90 Stat. 1236. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 2703 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2703) as this section.

2016—[Pub. L. 114–120](/us/pl/114/120) renumbered [section 661 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s661) as this section.

2002—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–295](/us/pl/107/295) inserted at end “If at the end of any fiscal year there is in effect a declaration of war or national emergency, the President may defer the effectiveness of any end-strength limitation with respect to that fiscal year prescribed by law for any military or civilian component of the Coast Guard, for a period not to exceed 6 months after the end of the war or termination of the national emergency.”
