---
title: "§ 2297g. Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2297g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2297g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title II, § 1801, as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/102/486/tXI/s1101), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2953](/us/stat/106/2953).)"
---
# § 2297g. Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

##### § 2297g. Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

(a) Establishment There is established in the Treasury of the United States an account to be known as the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund (referred to in this subchapter as the “Fund”). The Fund, and any amounts deposited in it, including any interest earned thereon, shall be available to the Secretary subject to appropriations for the exclusive purpose of carrying out this subchapter.

(b) Administration

(1) In general The Secretary of the Treasury shall hold the Fund and, after consultation with the Secretary, annually report to the Congress on the financial condition and operations of the Fund during the preceding fiscal year.

(2) Investments The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest amounts contained within the Fund in obligations of the United States—

(A) having maturities determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be appropriate for what the Department determines to be the needs of the Fund; and

(B) bearing interest at rates determined to be appropriate by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods to maturity comparable to these obligations.

*([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title II, § 1801, as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/102/486/tXI/s1101), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2953](/us/stat/106/2953).)*
