---
title: "§ 13491. Purposes and definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13491"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13491"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXI, § 2121](/us/pl/102/486/tXXI/s2121), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3081](/us/stat/106/3081).)"
---
# § 13491. Purposes and definitions

##### § 13491. Purposes and definitions

(a) Purposes The purposes of this part are—

(1) to require the Secretary to carry out civilian nuclear programs in a way that will lead toward the commercial availability of advanced nuclear reactor technologies; and

(2) to authorize such activities to further the timely availability of advanced nuclear reactor technologies, including technologies that utilize standardized designs or exhibit passive safety features.

(b) Definitions For purposes of this part—

(1) the term “advanced nuclear reactor technologies” means—

(A) advanced light water reactors that may be commercially available in the near-term, including but not limited to mid-sized reactors with passive safety features for the generation of commercial electric power from nuclear fission; and

(B) other advanced nuclear reactor technologies that may require prototype demonstration prior to commercial availability in the mid- or long-term, including but not limited to high-temperature, gas-cooled reactors and liquid metal reactors, for the generation of commercial electric power from nuclear fission;

(2) the term “Commission” means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;

(3) the term “standardized design” means a design for a nuclear power plant that may be utilized for a multiple number of units or a multiple number of sites; and

(4) the term “certification” means approval by the Commission of a standardized design.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXI, § 2121](/us/pl/102/486/tXXI/s2121), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3081](/us/stat/106/3081).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle” meaning subtitle C of title XXI of [Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3081](/us/stat/106/3081), which enacted this part and amended sections 12003 and 12004 of this title.
