---
title: "§ 5391. Inspector General reviews"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5391"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5391"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title II, § 211](/us/pl/111/203/tII/s211), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1514](/us/stat/124/1514); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(36)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/36), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4347](/us/stat/136/4347).)"
---
# § 5391. Inspector General reviews

##### § 5391. Inspector General reviews

(a) to (c) Omitted

(d) FDIC Inspector General reviews

(1) Scope The Inspector General of the Corporation shall conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of the liquidation of any covered financial company by the Corporation as receiver under this subchapter, including collecting and summarizing—

(A) a description of actions taken by the Corporation as receiver;

(B) a description of any material sales, transfers, mergers, obligations, purchases, and other material transactions entered into by the Corporation;

(C) an evaluation of the adequacy of the policies and procedures of the Corporation under [section 5383(d) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5383/d) and orderly liquidation plan under section 5390(n)(14) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title;

(D) an evaluation of the utilization by the Corporation of the private sector in carrying out its functions, including the adequacy of any conflict-of-interest reviews; and

(E) an evaluation of the overall performance of the Corporation in liquidating the covered financial company, including administrative costs, timeliness of liquidation process, and impact on the financial system.

(2) Frequency Not later than 6 months after the date of appointment of the Corporation as receiver under this subchapter and every 6 months thereafter, the Inspector General of the Corporation shall conduct the audit and investigation described in paragraph (1).

(3) Reports and testimony The Inspector General of the Corporation shall include in the semiannual reports required by [section 405(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s405/b), a summary of the findings and evaluations under paragraph (1), and shall appear before the appropriate committees of Congress, if requested, to present each such report.

(4) Funding

(A) Initial funding The expenses of the Inspector General of the Corporation in carrying out this subsection shall be considered administrative expenses of the receivership.

(B) Additional funding If the maximum amount available to the Corporation as receiver under this subchapter is insufficient to enable the Inspector General of the Corporation to carry out the duties under this subsection, the Corporation shall pay such additional amounts from assessments imposed under [section 5390 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5390).

(5) Termination of responsibilities The duties and responsibilities of the Inspector General of the Corporation under this subsection shall terminate 1 year after the date of termination of the receivership under this subchapter.

(e) Treasury Inspector General reviews

(1) Scope The Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury shall conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of actions taken by the Secretary related to the liquidation of any covered financial company under this subchapter, including collecting and summarizing—

(A) a description of actions taken by the Secretary under this subchapter;

(B) an analysis of the approval by the Secretary of the policies and procedures of the Corporation under [section 5383 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5383) and acceptance of the orderly liquidation plan of the Corporation under [section 5390 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5390); and

(C) an assessment of the terms and conditions underlying the purchase by the Secretary of obligations of the Corporation under [section 5390 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5390).

(2) Frequency Not later than 6 months after the date of appointment of the Corporation as receiver under this subchapter and every 6 months thereafter, the Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury shall conduct the audit and investigation described in paragraph (1).

(3) Reports and testimony The Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury shall include in the semiannual reports required by [section 405(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s405/b), a summary of the findings and assessments under paragraph (1), and shall appear before the appropriate committees of Congress, if requested, to present each such report.

(4) Termination of responsibilities The duties and responsibilities of the Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury under this subsection shall terminate 1 year after the date on which the obligations purchased by the Secretary from the Corporation under [section 5390 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5390) are fully redeemed.

(f) Primary financial regulatory agency Inspector General reviews

(1) Scope Upon the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company supervised by a Federal primary financial regulatory agency or the Board of Governors under [section 5365 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5365), the Inspector General of the agency or the Board of Governors shall make a written report reviewing the supervision by the agency or the Board of Governors of the covered financial company, which shall—

(A) evaluate the effectiveness of the agency or the Board of Governors in carrying out its supervisory responsibilities with respect to the covered financial company;

(B) identify any acts or omissions on the part of agency or Board of Governors officials that contributed to the covered financial company being in default or in danger of default;

(C) identify any actions that could have been taken by the agency or the Board of Governors that would have prevented the company from being in default or in danger of default; and

(D) recommend appropriate administrative or legislative action.

(2) Reports and testimony Not later than 1 year after the date of appointment of the Corporation as receiver under this subchapter, the Inspector General of the Federal primary financial regulatory agency or the Board of Governors shall provide the report required by paragraph (1) to such agency or the Board of Governors, and along with such agency or the Board of Governors, as applicable, shall appear before the appropriate committees of Congress, if requested, to present the report required by paragraph (1). Not later than 90 days after the date of receipt of the report required by paragraph (1), such agency or the Board of Governors, as applicable, shall provide a written report to Congress describing any actions taken in response to the recommendations in the report, and if no such actions were taken, describing the reasons why no actions were taken.

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title II, § 211](/us/pl/111/203/tII/s211), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1514](/us/stat/124/1514); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(36)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/36), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4347](/us/stat/136/4347).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (d)(1), (2), (4)(B), (5), (e)(1), (2), and (f)(2), was in the original “this title”, meaning title II of [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/124/1442), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see Tables.

[Section 5390(n)(14) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5390/n/14), referred to in subsec. (d)(1)(C), probably means section 5390(n)(9), because [section 5390(n) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5390/n) does not contain a par. (14) and [section 5390(n)(9) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5390/n/9) relates to orderly liquidation plans.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 211 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s211). Subsecs. (a) to (c) of [section 211 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s211) amended [section 4403 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s4403) and [section 1032 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1032), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (d)(3). [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(36)(A)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/36/A), substituted “[section 405(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s405/b),” for “section 5(a) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.),”.

Subsec. (e)(3). [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(36)(B)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/36/B), substituted “[section 405(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s405/b),” for “section 5(a) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.),”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s4), set out as a note under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301).
