---
title: "§ 4824. Annual report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4824"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4824"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1765](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1765), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/132/2232).)"
---
# § 4824. Annual report to Congress

##### § 4824. Annual report to Congress

(a) In general The Secretary shall submit to Congress, by December 31 of each year, a report on the implementation of this subchapter during the preceding fiscal year. The report shall include a review of—

(1) the effect of controls imposed under this subchapter on exports, reexports, and in-country transfers of items in addressing threats to the national security or foreign policy of the United States, including a description of licensing processing times;

(2) the impact of such controls on the scientific and technological leadership of the United States;

(3) the consistency with such controls of export controls imposed by other countries;

(4) efforts to provide exporters with compliance assistance, including specific actions to assist small- and medium-sized businesses;

(5) a summary of regulatory changes from the prior fiscal year;

(6) a summary of export enforcement actions, including of actions taken to implement end-use monitoring of dual-use, military, and other items subject to the Export Administration Regulations;

(7) a summary of approved license applications to proscribed persons;

(8) efforts undertaken within the previous year to comply with the requirements of section 4817 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, including any critical technologies identified under such section and how or whether such critical technologies were controlled for export; and

(9) a summary of industrial base assessments conducted during the previous year by the Department of Commerce, including with respect to counterfeit electronics, foundational technologies, and other research and analysis of critical technologies and industrial capabilities of key defense-related sectors.

(b) Form The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.

*([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1765](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1765), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/132/2232).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this part”, meaning part I (§§ 1751–1768) of subtitle B of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), known as the Export Controls Act of 2018, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of part I to the Code, see [section 1751 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1751), set out as a Short Title note under [section 4801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4801) and Tables.

[Section 4817 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4817), referred to in subsec. (a)(8), was in the original “section 1759”, and was translated as meaning [section 1758 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1758), which relates to requirements to identify and control the export of emerging and foundational technologies and is classified to [section 4817 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4817), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
