---
title: "§ 4336d. E-NEPA"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4336d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4336d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–190, title I, § 110](/us/pl/91/190/tI/s110), as added [Pub. L. 118–5, div. C, title III, § 321(b)](/us/pl/118/5/dC/tIII/s321/b), June 3, 2023, [137 Stat. 44](/us/stat/137/44).)"
---
# § 4336d. E-NEPA

##### § 4336d. E-NEPA

(a) Permitting portal study The Council on Environmental Quality shall conduct a study and submit a report to Congress within 1 year of the enactment of this Act 11 See References in Text note below. on the potential for online and digital technologies to address delays in reviews and improve public accessibility and transparency under [section 4332(2)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4332/2/C) including, but not limited to, a unified permitting portal that would—

(1) allow applicants to—

(A) submit required documents or materials for their project in one unified portal;

(B) upload and collaborate with the applicable agencies to edit documents in real-time, as required;

(C) upload and display visual features such as video, animation, geographic information system displays, and three-dimensional renderings; and

(D) track the progress of individual applications;

(2) include a cloud based, digital tool for more complex reviews that would enhance interagency coordination in consultation by—

(A) centralizing, across all necessary agencies, the data, visuals, and documents, including but not limited to geographic information system displays, other visual renderings, and completed reports and analyses necessary for reviews;

(B) streamlining communications between all necessary agencies and the applicant;

(C) allowing for comments and responses by and to all necessary agencies in one unified portal;

(D) generating analytical reports to aid in organizing and cataloguing public comments; and

(E) be 22 So in original. Probably should be “being”. accessible on mobile devices;

(3) boost transparency in agency processes and present information suitable for a lay audience, including but not limited to—

(A) scientific data and analysis; and

(B) anticipated agency process and timeline; and

(4) include examples describing how at least five permits would be reviewed and processed through this portal.

(b) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for the Council on Environmental Quality to carry out the study directed by this section.

*([Pub. L. 91–190, title I, § 110](/us/pl/91/190/tI/s110), as added [Pub. L. 118–5, div. C, title III, § 321(b)](/us/pl/118/5/dC/tIII/s321/b), June 3, 2023, [137 Stat. 44](/us/stat/137/44).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means the enactment of [Pub. L. 118–5](/us/pl/118/5), which added this section to title I of [Pub. L. 91–190](/us/pl/91/190) and was approved June 3, 2023.
