---
title: "§ 7604. Authority to consolidate and combine reports"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–25, § 5](/us/pl/108/25/s5), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 718](/us/stat/117/718); [Pub. L. 110–293, § 5](/us/pl/110/293/s5), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2922](/us/stat/122/2922).)"
---
# § 7604. Authority to consolidate and combine reports

##### § 7604. Authority to consolidate and combine reports

With respect to the reports required by this chapter to be submitted by the President, to ensure an efficient use of resources, the President may, in his discretion and notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, consolidate or combine any of these reports, except for the report required by [section 7611 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7611), so long as the required elements of each report are addressed and reported within a 90-day period from the original deadline date for submission of the report specified in this chapter. The President may also enter into contracts with organizations with relevant expertise to develop, originate, or contribute to any of the reports required by this chapter to be submitted by the President, with the exception of the 5-year strategy.

*([Pub. L. 108–25, § 5](/us/pl/108/25/s5), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 718](/us/stat/117/718); [Pub. L. 110–293, § 5](/us/pl/110/293/s5), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2922](/us/stat/122/2922).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 108–25](/us/pl/108/25), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 711](/us/stat/117/711), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7601 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7601) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2008—[Pub. L. 110–293](/us/pl/110/293) inserted “, with the exception of the 5-year strategy” before the period at end.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
