---
title: "§ 6161. Annual Selected Acquisition Reports on certain hardware relating to defense nuclear nonproliferation"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6161"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6161"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1385](/us/stat/139/1385), 1462.)"
---
# § 6161. Annual Selected Acquisition Reports on certain hardware relating to defense nuclear nonproliferation

##### § 6161. Annual Selected Acquisition Reports on certain hardware relating to defense nuclear nonproliferation

(a) Annual Selected Acquisition Reports.—

(1) At the end of each fiscal year, the Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on each covered hardware project. The reports shall be known as Selected Acquisition Reports for the covered hardware project concerned.

(2) The information contained in the Selected Acquisition Report for a fiscal year for a covered hardware project shall be the information contained in the Selected Acquisition Report for such fiscal year for a major defense acquisition program under section 4351 or any successor system, expressed in terms of the covered hardware project.

(b) Covered Hardware Project Defined.— In this section, the term “covered hardware project” means a project carried out under the defense nuclear nonproliferation research and development program that—

(1) is focused on the production and deployment of hardware, including with respect to the development and deployment of satellites or satellite payloads; and

(2) exceeds $500,000,000 in total program cost over the course of five years.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1385](/us/stat/139/1385), 1462.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6161 was renumbered [section 8271 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8271).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2577 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2577), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(d)(2)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/d/2/B), realigned margins.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(d)(2)(A)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/d/2/A), struck out pars. (1) and (2) headings which read as follows: “In general” and “Matters included”, respectively.
