---
title: "§ 467. Imported distilled spirits, wines, or malt liquors; regulations for marks, brands, and stamps or devices on bulk containers; forfeitures"
identifier: "USC-T19-S467"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section467"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Mar. 1, 1879, ch. 125, § 11](/us/act/1879-03-01/ch125/s11), [20 Stat. 342](/us/stat/20/342); [Pub. L. 95–410, title II, § 201](/us/pl/95/410/tII/s201), Oct. 3, 1978, [92 Stat. 898](/us/stat/92/898).)"
---
# § 467. Imported distilled spirits, wines, or malt liquors; regulations for marks, brands, and stamps or devices on bulk containers; forfeitures

##### § 467. Imported distilled spirits, wines, or malt liquors; regulations for marks, brands, and stamps or devices on bulk containers; forfeitures

The Secretary of the Treasury may by regulation require such marks, brands, and stamps or devices to be placed on any bulk container (including a pipeline) used for holding, storing, transferring or conveying imported distilled spirits, wines, or malt liquors as he deems necessary and proper in the administration of the Federal laws applicable to such imported distilled spirits, wines, or malt liquors and may specify those marks, brands, and stamps or devices which the importer or owner shall place or have placed on such containers. Any such container of imported distilled spirits, wines, or malt liquors withdrawn from customs custody purporting to contain imported distilled spirits, wines, or malt liquors found without having thereon any mark, brand, stamp, or device the Secretary of the Treasury may require, shall be with its contents, forfeited to the United States of America.

*([Mar. 1, 1879, ch. 125, § 11](/us/act/1879-03-01/ch125/s11), [20 Stat. 342](/us/stat/20/342); [Pub. L. 95–410, title II, § 201](/us/pl/95/410/tII/s201), Oct. 3, 1978, [92 Stat. 898](/us/stat/92/898).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–410](/us/pl/95/410) substituted provisions authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to require by regulation the placing of marks, brands, and stamps or devices on bulk containers of imported distilled spirits, wines, or malt liquors used for holding, storing, transferring or conveying the imported liquors for prior provisions for deposit of imported distilled spirits, wines, and malt liquors in public store or bonded warehouse, inspection of packages, affixing of stamps thereto, and special stamps for cask or package of not less than five wine-gallons filled for shipment, sale, or delivery on premises of any wholesale liquor-dealer under rules and regulations prescribed by Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
