---
title: "§ 9102. Standards for tank vessels of the United States"
identifier: "USC-T46-S9102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section9102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 556](/us/stat/97/556); [Pub. L. 101–380, title IV, § 4114(d)](/us/pl/101/380/tIV/s4114/d), Aug. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 517](/us/stat/104/517); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8503(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4747](/us/stat/134/4747).)"
---
# § 9102. Standards for tank vessels of the United States

##### § 9102. Standards for tank vessels of the United States

(1) instruction in vessel and cargo handling and vessel navigation under normal operating conditions in coastal and confined waters and on the high seas;

(2) instruction in vessel and cargo handling and vessel navigation in emergency situations and under marine casualty or potential casualty conditions;

(3) qualifications for licenses by specific type and size of vessels;

(4) qualifications for licenses by use of simulators for the practice or demonstration of marine-oriented skills;

(5) minimum health and physical fitness criteria for various grades of licenses and certificates;

(6) periodic retraining and special training for upgrading positions, changing vessel type or size, or assuming new responsibilities;

(7) decisions about licenses and certificates, conditions of licensing or certification, and periods of licensing or certification by reference to experience, amount of training completed, and regular performance testing; and

(8) instruction in vessel maintenance functions.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 556](/us/stat/97/556); [Pub. L. 101–380, title IV, § 4114(d)](/us/pl/101/380/tIV/s4114/d), Aug. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 517](/us/stat/104/517); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8503(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4747](/us/stat/134/4747).)*

Section 9102 prescribes manning standards for United States tank vessels.

Subsection (a) requires the Secretary of Transportation to prescribe certain standards for the duties, qualifications, and training of the officers and crew of United States tank vessels.

Subsection (b) provides for a waiver of any health and physical fitness criteria prescribed under subsection (a).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 9102 | 46:391a(9) |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) struck out subsec. (a) designation before “The Secretary shall” and struck out subsec. (b) which read as follows: “The Secretary shall waive the application of criteria required by subsection (a)(5) of this section for an individual having a license or certificate (including a renewal of the license or certificate) in effect on October 17, 1978. When the waiver is granted, the Secretary may prescribe conditions for the license or certificate and its renewal, as the Secretary decides are reasonable and necessary for the safety of a vessel on which the individual may be employed.”

1990—Par. (8). [Pub. L. 101–380](/us/pl/101/380) added par. (8).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–380](/us/pl/101/380) applicable to incidents occurring after Aug. 18, 1990, see [section 1020 of Pub. L. 101–380](/us/pl/101/380/s1020), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 2701 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s2701), Navigation and Navigable Waters.
