---
title: "§ 2708. Referendum among egg producers"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2708"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2708"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–428, § 9](/us/pl/93/428/s9), Oct. 1, 1974, [88 Stat. 1176](/us/stat/88/1176); [Pub. L. 96–276, § 5](/us/pl/96/276/s5), June 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 541](/us/stat/94/541); [Pub. L. 103–188, § 2(b)](/us/pl/103/188/s2/b), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2256](/us/stat/107/2256).)"
---
# § 2708. Referendum among egg producers

##### § 2708. Referendum among egg producers

(a) Producer approval of order The Secretary shall conduct a referendum among egg producers not exempt hereunder who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production of commercial eggs, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the issuance of an order is approved or favored by such producers. No order issued pursuant to this chapter shall be effective unless the Secretary determines that the issuance of such order is approved or favored by not less than two-thirds of the producers voting in such referendum, or by a majority of the producers voting in such referendum if such majority produced not less than two-thirds of the commercial eggs produced during a representative period defined by the Secretary.

(b) Request by Egg Board for referendum

(1) If the Egg Board determines, based on a scientific study, marketing analysis, or other similar competent evidence, that an increase in the assessment rate is needed to ensure that assessments under the order are set at an appropriate level to effectuate the policy declared in [section 2701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2701), the Egg Board may request that the Secretary conduct a referendum, as provided in paragraph (2).

(2)

(A) If the Egg Board requests the Secretary to conduct a referendum under paragraph (1) or (3), the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among egg producers not exempt from this chapter who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production of commercial eggs, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the producers approve the change in the assessment rate proposed by the Egg Board.

(B) The change in the assessment rate shall become effective if the change is approved or favored by—

(i) not less than two-thirds of the producers voting in the referendum; or

(ii) a majority of the producers voting in the referendum, if the majority produced not less than two-thirds of all the commercial eggs produced by the producers voting during a representative period defined by the Secretary.

(3)

(A) In the case of the order in effect on December 14, 1993, the Egg Board shall determine under paragraph (1), as soon as practicable after December 14, 1993, whether to request that the Secretary conduct a referendum under paragraph (2).

(B) If the Egg Board makes such a request on the basis of competent evidence, as provided in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall conduct the referendum as soon as practicable, but not later than—

(i) 120 days after receipt of the request from the Egg Board; or

(ii) if the Director of the Office of Management and Budget determines that the change in the assessment rate is a significant action that requires review by the Director, 170 days after receipt of the request from the Egg Board.

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if an increase in the assessment rate and the authority for additional increases is approved by producers in a referendum conducted under this subsection, the Secretary shall amend the order to reflect the vote of the producers. The amendment to the order shall become effective on the date of issuance of the amendment.

(c) Nonapproval of amendments as not invalidating order The failure of egg producers to approve an amendment to any Egg Research and Promotion Order shall not be deemed to invalidate such order.

*([Pub. L. 93–428, § 9](/us/pl/93/428/s9), Oct. 1, 1974, [88 Stat. 1176](/us/stat/88/1176); [Pub. L. 96–276, § 5](/us/pl/96/276/s5), June 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 541](/us/stat/94/541); [Pub. L. 103–188, § 2(b)](/us/pl/103/188/s2/b), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2256](/us/stat/107/2256).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—[Pub. L. 103–188](/us/pl/103/188) designated first and second sentences of existing provisions as subsec. (a), added subsec. (b), and designated last sentence of existing provisions as subsec. (c).

1980—[Pub. L. 96–276](/us/pl/96/276) provided that failure of egg producers to approve an amendment to any Egg Research and Promotion Order shall not be deemed to invalidate the order.
