---
title: "§ 6541. Professional archivist; Secretary’s authority to obtain services from General Services Administration"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6541"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6541"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–92, title I, § 125](/us/pl/97/92/tI/s125), Dec. 15, 1981, [95 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/95/1198).)"
---
# § 6541. Professional archivist; Secretary’s authority to obtain services from General Services Administration

##### § 6541. Professional archivist; Secretary’s authority to obtain services from General Services Administration

For each fiscal year (beginning with the fiscal year which ends September 30, 1982), the Secretary of the Senate is authorized to expend from the contingent fund of the Senate such amount as may be necessary to enable the Secretary to obtain from the General Services Administration the services of a professional archivist. Such services shall be obtained on a reimbursable basis and shall not be obtained except with the consent of the General Services Administration and the Committee on Rules and Administration.

*([Pub. L. 97–92, title I, § 125](/us/pl/97/92/tI/s125), Dec. 15, 1981, [95 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/95/1198).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61b–3 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61b–3) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Reimbursement of Archivist of the United States for Expenditures for Project To Provide for Preservation of Records of Continuing Value of Senate; Payment, etc., of Amounts

[Pub. L. 97–257, title I, § 107](/us/pl/97/257/tI/s107), Sept. 10, 1982, [96 Stat. 850](/us/stat/96/850), provided that for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 1982, and for each of the next three succeeding fiscal years, the Secretary of the Senate was authorized to pay to the General Services Administration such amounts, not to exceed $300,000, needed to reimburse the Archivist of the United States for certain expenditures made to conduct a project to provide for the proper preservation of the Senate’s records of continuing value.
