---
title: "§ 44941. Immunity for reporting suspicious activities"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44941"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44941"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 125(a)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s125/a), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 631](/us/stat/115/631); amended [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(d)(32)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/d/32), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3640](/us/stat/132/3640).)"
---
# § 44941. Immunity for reporting suspicious activities

##### § 44941. Immunity for reporting suspicious activities

(a) In General.— Any air carrier or foreign air carrier or any employee of an air carrier or foreign air carrier who makes a voluntary disclosure of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation, relating to air piracy, a threat to aircraft or passenger safety, or terrorism, as defined by [section 3077 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3077), United States Code, to any employee or agent of the Department of Transportation, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer, or any airport or airline security officer shall not be civilly liable to any person under any law or regulation of the United States, any constitution, law, or regulation of any State or political subdivision of any State, for such disclosure.

(b) Application.— Subsection (a) shall not apply to—

(1) any disclosure made with actual knowledge that the disclosure was false, inaccurate, or misleading; or

(2) any disclosure made with reckless disregard as to the truth or falsity of that disclosure.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 125(a)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s125/a), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 631](/us/stat/115/631); amended [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(d)(32)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/d/32), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3640](/us/stat/132/3640).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) inserted “the Department of Homeland Security,” after “Department of Transportation,”.
