---
title: "§ 1574–1. Applicability of laws referred to in section 502(a)(1) of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1574–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1574–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–134, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/95/134/tIV/s403), Oct. 15, 1977, [91 Stat. 1163](/us/stat/91/1163); [Pub. L. 95–135, § 1](/us/pl/95/135/s1), Oct. 15, 1977, [91 Stat. 1166](/us/stat/91/1166); [Pub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 900(e)(7)](/us/pl/108/173/tIX/s900/e/7), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2374](/us/stat/117/2374).)"
---
# § 1574–1. Applicability of laws referred to in section 502(a)(1) of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands

##### § 1574–1. Applicability of laws referred to in section 502(a)(1) of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands

Effective on the date when section 502 of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of America, approved by joint resolution approved on March 24, 1976 ([90 Stat. 263](/us/stat/90/263)) goes into force those laws which are referred to in section 502(a)(1) of said Covenant, except for any laws administered by the Social Security Administration, except for medicaid which is now administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and except the Micronesian Claims Act of 1971 ([85 Stat. 96](/us/stat/85/96)) shall be applicable to the territories of Guam and the Virgin Islands on the same terms and conditions as such laws are applied to the Northern Mariana Islands.

*([Pub. L. 95–134, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/95/134/tIV/s403), Oct. 15, 1977, [91 Stat. 1163](/us/stat/91/1163); [Pub. L. 95–135, § 1](/us/pl/95/135/s1), Oct. 15, 1977, [91 Stat. 1166](/us/stat/91/1166); [Pub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 900(e)(7)](/us/pl/108/173/tIX/s900/e/7), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2374](/us/stat/117/2374).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of America, referred to in text, is contained in [section 1 of Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241/s1), set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1801). For Jan. 9, 1978, as the date section 502 of the Covenant came into force, see Proc. No. 4534, § 2, set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1801).

The joint resolution approved on March 24, 1976, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241), Mar. 24, 1976, [90 Stat. 263](/us/stat/90/263), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1801 et seq.) of chapter 17 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Micronesian Claims Act of 1971, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 92–39](/us/pl/92/39), July 1, 1971, [85 Stat. 92](/us/stat/85/92), as amended, which was classified generally to section 2018 et seq. of the former Appendix to Title 50, War and National Defense, and which was omitted from the Code as terminated Aug. 3, 1976.

#### Codification

Section is also classified to [section 1421q–1 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1421q–1).

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1681).

Section was not enacted as part of the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2003—[Pub. L. 108–173](/us/pl/108/173) substituted “Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services” for “Health Care Financing Administration”.

1977—[Pub. L. 95–135](/us/pl/95/135) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “Effective on October 15, 1977, those laws, except for any laws administered by the Social Security Administration and except for medicaid which is now administered by the Health Care Financing Administration, which are referred to in section 502(a)(1) (except for the reference to the Micronesian Claims Act of 1971 ([85 Stat. 96](/us/stat/85/96))) of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of America, approved by joint resolution approved on March 24, 1976 ([90 Stat. 263](/us/stat/90/263)), and 502(a)(2) of said Covenant shall be applicable to the territories of Guam and the Virgin Islands on the same terms and conditions as such laws are applied to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–135](/us/pl/95/135) effective as of Oct. 15, 1977, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 95–135](/us/pl/95/135/s2), set out as a note under [section 1421q–1 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1421q–1).
