---
title: "§ 10708. Administrative provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S10708"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section10708"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–620, title II, § 209](/us/pl/98/620/tII/s209), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/98/3344); [Pub. L. 100–702, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/100/702/tVI/s606), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4653](/us/stat/102/4653).)"
---
# § 10708. Administrative provisions

##### § 10708. Administrative provisions

(a) The Institute shall prescribe procedures to ensure that financial assistance under this chapter shall not be suspended unless the grantee, contractor, person, or entity receiving financial assistance under this chapter has been given reasonable notice and opportunity to show cause why such actions should not be taken.

(b) Except as provided by Federal law other than this chapter, no officer or employee of the Institute, and no recipient of assistance under this chapter, may use or reveal any research or statistical information furnished under this chapter by any person and identifiable to any specific private person for any purpose other than the purpose for which the information was obtained in accordance with this chapter. Such information and copies thereof shall be immune from legal process, and shall not, without the consent of the person furnishing such information, be admitted as evidence or used for any purpose in any action, suit, or other judicial, legislative, or administrative proceedings.

*([Pub. L. 98–620, title II, § 209](/us/pl/98/620/tII/s209), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/98/3344); [Pub. L. 100–702, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/100/702/tVI/s606), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4653](/us/stat/102/4653).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title II of [Pub. L. 98–620](/us/pl/98/620), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3336](/us/stat/98/3336), known as the State Justice Institute Act of 1984, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 10701 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10701) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–702](/us/pl/100/702) substituted “Administrative provisions” for “Special procedures” in section catchline, and amended text generally, changing structure of section from a single unlettered paragraph to one consisting of subsecs. (a) and (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1985, see [section 216 of Pub. L. 98–620](/us/pl/98/620/s216), set out as a note under [section 10701 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10701).
