---
title: "§ 2451. Separate treatment in budget"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2451"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2451"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3251](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3251), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 966](/us/stat/113/966); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3112](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3112), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2169](/us/stat/126/2169); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3145(e)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3145/e), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1071](/us/stat/127/1071).)"
---
# § 2451. Separate treatment in budget

##### § 2451. Separate treatment in budget

(a) President’s budget In each budget submitted by the President to Congress under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105), amounts requested for the Administration shall be set forth separately within the other amounts requested for the Department of Energy.

(b) Budget justification materials

(1) In the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of each such budget, the amounts requested for the Administration shall be specified in individual, dedicated program elements.

(2) In the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of each such budget, the Administrator shall include an assessment of how the budget maintains the core nuclear weapons skills of the Administration, including nuclear weapons design, engineering, production, testing, and prediction of stockpile aging.

*([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3251](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3251), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 966](/us/stat/113/966); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3112](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3112), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2169](/us/stat/126/2169); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3145(e)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3145/e), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1071](/us/stat/127/1071).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–66](/us/pl/113/66) substituted “Congress” for “the Congress”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Ten-Year Plan for Use and Funding of Certain Department of Energy Facilities

[Pub. L. 111–84, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141](/us/pl/111/84/dC/tXXXI/s3141), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2715](/us/stat/123/2715), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Administrator for Nuclear Security and the Under Secretary for Science of the Department of Energy shall jointly develop a plan to use and fund, over a ten-year period, the following facilities of the Department of Energy:“(1) The National Ignition Facility at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, California. “(2) The Los Alamos Neutron Science Center at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico. “(3) The Z Machine at the Sandia National Laboratories, New Mexico. “(4) The Microsystems and Engineering Sciences Application Facility at the Sandia National Laboratories, New Mexico. “(b) Submittal of Plan.—Not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2009], the Administrator for Nuclear Security and the Under Secretary for Science of the Department of Energy shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the plan required by subsection (a). “(c) Requirement to Specify Source of Facility Funding in Budget Requests.—In any budget request for the Department of Energy for a fiscal year that is submitted to Congress after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2009], the Secretary of Energy shall identify for that fiscal year the portion of the funding for each facility specified in subsection (a) that is to be provided by the National Nuclear Security Administration and by the Office of Science of the Department of Energy. “(d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.—In this section, the term ‘appropriate congressional committees’ means—“(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Science and Technology [now Committee on Science, Space, and Technology] of the House of Representatives; and “(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.”
