---
title: "§ 4514. Limitation on actions without congressional authorization"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4514"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4514"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title I, § 104, as added [Pub. L. 102–558, title I, § 112](/us/pl/102/558/tI/s112), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4202](/us/stat/106/4202).)"
---
# § 4514. Limitation on actions without congressional authorization

##### § 4514. Limitation on actions without congressional authorization

(a) Wage or price controls No provision of this chapter shall be interpreted as providing for the imposition of wage or price controls without the prior authorization of such action by a joint resolution of Congress.

(b) Chemical or biological weapons No provision of this subchapter shall be exercised or interpreted to require action or compliance by any private person to assist in any way in the production of or other involvement in chemical or biological warfare capabilities, unless authorized by the President (or the President’s designee who is serving in a position at level I of the Executive Schedule in accordance with [section 5312 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5312)) without further redelegation.

*([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title I, § 104, as added [Pub. L. 102–558, title I, § 112](/us/pl/102/558/tI/s112), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4202](/us/stat/106/4202).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), [64 Stat. 798](/us/stat/64/798), known as the Defense Production Act of 1950, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4501 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4501) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2074 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 104 of [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932, title I](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tI), as added [July 31, 1951, ch. 275](/us/act/1951-07-31/ch275), title I, § 101(c), [65 Stat. 132](/us/stat/65/132); amended [June 30, 1952, ch. 530, § 103](/us/act/1952-06-30/ch530/s103), [66 Stat. 297](/us/stat/66/297), related to limitations on imports of fats and oils, prior to termination at close of June 30, 1953, pursuant to [section 4564(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4564/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section deemed to have become effective Mar. 1, 1992, see [section 304 of Pub. L. 102–558](/us/pl/102/558/s304), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 4502 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4502).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority

Authority of President under subsec. (b) of this section delegated to Secretary of Defense, without authority to redelegate, by section 204 of Ex. Ord. No. 13603, Mar. 16, 2012, 77 F.R. 16653, set out as a note under [section 4553 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4553).
