---
title: "§ 10110. Office of Justice Programs grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(b) [title I, § 112]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/b/tI/s112), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–50](/us/stat/112/2681-50), 2681–67; [Pub. L. 107–56, title VI, § 614](/us/pl/107/56/tVI/s614), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 370](/us/stat/115/370); [Pub. L. 107–273, div. A, title II, § 205(d)](/us/pl/107/273/dA/tII/s205/d), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1778](/us/stat/116/1778).)"
---
# § 10110. Office of Justice Programs grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts

##### § 10110. Office of Justice Programs grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts

(1) may make grants, or enter into cooperative agreements and contracts, for the Office of Justice Programs and the component organizations of that Office (including, notwithstanding any contrary provision of law (unless the same should expressly refer to this section), any organization that administers any program established in title 1 of [Public Law 90–351](/us/pl/90/351)); 11 See References in Text note below. and

(2) shall have final authority over all functions, including any grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts made, or entered into, for the Office of Justice Programs and the component organizations of that Office (including, notwithstanding any contrary provision of law (unless the same should expressly refer to this section), any organization that administers any program established in title 1 of [Public Law 90–351](/us/pl/90/351)).^1

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(b) [title I, § 112]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/b/tI/s112), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–50](/us/stat/112/2681-50), 2681–67; [Pub. L. 107–56, title VI, § 614](/us/pl/107/56/tVI/s614), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 370](/us/stat/115/370); [Pub. L. 107–273, div. A, title II, § 205(d)](/us/pl/107/273/dA/tII/s205/d), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1778](/us/stat/116/1778).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Public Law 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), referred to in pars. (1) and (2), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197), known as the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968. Title 1 of [Public Law 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) probably means title I of the Act which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 1999, and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, and not as part of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 3715 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3715), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was also formerly classified as a note under [section 3712 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3712) prior to transfer to [section 3715 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3715).

#### Amendments

2002—[Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273) substituted “any fiscal year the Attorney General—” for “fiscal year 1999, the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice—” in introductory provisions.

2001—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 107–56, § 614(1)](/us/pl/107/56/s614/1), inserted “(including, notwithstanding any contrary provision of law (unless the same should expressly refer to this section), any organization that administers any program established in title 1 of [Public Law 90–351](/us/pl/90/351))” after “that Office”.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 107–56, § 614](/us/pl/107/56/s614), inserted “functions, including any” after “all” and “(including, notwithstanding any contrary provision of law (unless the same should expressly refer to this section), any organization that administers any program established in title 1 of [Public Law 90–351](/us/pl/90/351))” after “that Office”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Office of Justice Programs Grants, Cooperative Agreements, and Contracts

[Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(a)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/1/tI/s108/a), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–20, as amended by [Pub. L. 107–56, title VI, § 614](/us/pl/107/56/tVI/s614), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 370](/us/stat/115/370), provided that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal year 2000, the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice— “(1) may make grants, or enter into cooperative agreements and contracts, for the Office of Justice Programs and the component organizations of that Office (including, notwithstanding any contrary provision of law (unless the same should expressly refer to this section), any organization that administers any program established in title 1 of [Public Law 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) [see References in Text note above]); and “(2) shall have final authority over all functions, including any grants, cooperative agreements and contracts made, or entered into, for the Office of Justice Programs and the component organizations of that Office (including, notwithstanding any contrary provision of law (unless the same should expressly refer to this section), any organization that administers any program established in title 1 of [Public Law 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) [see References in Text note above]), except for grants made under the provisions of sections 201, 202, 301, and 302 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 [[34 U.S.C. 10121](/us/usc/t34/s10121), 10122, 10131, 10132], as amended; and sections 204(b)(3), 241(e)(1), 243(a)(1), 243(a)(14) and 287A(3) of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 [[34 U.S.C. 11114(b)(3)](/us/usc/t34/s11114/b/3) and former [42 U.S.C. 5651(e)(1)](/us/usc/t42/s5651/e/1), 5653(a)(1), (14), 5667d–1(3)], as amended.”

[[Pub. L. 106–553, § 1(a)(2) [title I, § 108]](/us/pl/106/553/s1/a/2/tI/s108), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2762](/us/stat/114/2762), 2762A–67, provided that: “Section 108(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by [section 1000(a)(1) of Public Law 106–113](/us/pl/106/113/s1000/a/1)) [set out above] shall apply for fiscal year 2001 and thereafter.” ]
