---
title: "§ 2652. Effect on existing employment benefits"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2652"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2652"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–3, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/103/3/tIV/s402), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 26](/us/stat/107/26).)"
---
# § 2652. Effect on existing employment benefits

##### § 2652. Effect on existing employment benefits

(a) More protective Nothing in this Act or any amendment made by this Act shall be construed to diminish the obligation of an employer to comply with any collective bargaining agreement or any employment benefit program or plan that provides greater family or medical leave rights to employees than the rights established under this Act or any amendment made by this Act.

(b) Less protective The rights established for employees under this Act or any amendment made by this Act shall not be diminished by any collective bargaining agreement or any employment benefit program or plan.

*([Pub. L. 103–3, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/103/3/tIV/s402), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 26](/us/stat/107/26).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 103–3](/us/pl/103/3), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 6](/us/stat/107/6), known as the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, which enacted this chapter, sections 60m and 60n of Title 2, The Congress, and sections 6381 to 6387 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, amended [section 2105 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2105), and enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2601). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2601) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 6 months after Feb. 5, 1993, see [section 405(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–3](/us/pl/103/3/s405/b/1), set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2601).
