---
title: "§ 430h–6. Addition of lands to Vicksburg National Military Park"
identifier: "USC-T16-S430h–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section430h–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–442, title I, § 101](/us/pl/101/442/tI/s101), Oct. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 1019](/us/stat/104/1019).)"
---
# § 430h–6. Addition of lands to Vicksburg National Military Park

##### § 430h–6. Addition of lands to Vicksburg National Military Park

(a) Grant’s Canal, Louisiana The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in sections 430h–6 to 430h–9 of this title referred to as the “Secretary”) is authorized to acquire by donation, exchange, or purchase with donated or appropriated funds, approximately two and five-tenths acres of land in Madison Parish, Louisiana, known generally as the Grant’s Canal property.

(b) Warren County, Mississippi

(1) The Secretary is authorized to acquire by donation approximately two and eighty-two one-hundredths acres of land adjacent to the entrance of Vicksburg National Military Park owned by Warren County, Mississippi.

(2) The Secretary may contribute, in cash or services, to the relocation and construction of a maintenance facility to replace the facility located on the land to be donated, all in accordance with an agreement between the Secretary and the Board of Supervisors.

(3) The Secretary is authorized to restore and landscape the property acquired pursuant to this subsection.

(c) Boundary revision Upon acquisition of the properties referred to in subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall, after the publication of notice in the Federal Register, revise the boundary of Vicksburg National Military Park (hereinafter in sections 430h–6 to 430h–9 of this title referred to as the “park”) to reflect the inclusion of such properties within the park.

*([Pub. L. 101–442, title I, § 101](/us/pl/101/442/tI/s101), Oct. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 1019](/us/stat/104/1019).)*
