---
title: "§ 283. Establishment; purposes; boundaries"
identifier: "USC-T16-S283"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section283"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–667, § 1](/us/pl/89/667/s1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 920](/us/stat/80/920); [Pub. L. 100–541, § 1](/us/pl/100/541/s1), Oct. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 2720](/us/stat/102/2720).)"
---
# § 283. Establishment; purposes; boundaries

##### § 283. Establishment; purposes; boundaries

(a) In order to preserve in public ownership an area in the State of Texas possessing outstanding geological values together with scenic and other natural values of great significance, the Secretary of the Interior shall establish the Guadalupe Mountains National Park, consisting of the land and interests in land within the area shown on the drawing entitled “Proposed Guadalupe Mountains National Park, Texas”, numbered SA–GM–7100C and dated February 1965, which is on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the Secretary shall omit from the park sections 7 and 17, P.S.L. Block 121, in Hudspeth County, and revise the boundaries of the park accordingly if the owner of said sections agrees, on behalf of himself, his heirs and assigns that there will not be erected thereon any structure which, in the judgment of the Secretary, adversely affects the public use and enjoyment of the park.

(b) The boundary of Guadalupe Mountains National Park is hereby modified to include the area which comprises approximately 10,123 acres as generally depicted on the map entitled “Boundary Proposal” and dated August 1986, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Director of the National Park Service and in the office of the Superintendent of the Guadalupe Mountains National Park.

*([Pub. L. 89–667, § 1](/us/pl/89/667/s1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 920](/us/stat/80/920); [Pub. L. 100–541, § 1](/us/pl/100/541/s1), Oct. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 2720](/us/stat/102/2720).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–541](/us/pl/100/541) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).
