---
title: "§ 300d–12. Requirement of matching funds for fiscal years subsequent to first fiscal year of payments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300d–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300d–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XII, § 1212, as added [Pub. L. 101–590, § 3](/us/pl/101/590/s3), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2919](/us/stat/104/2919); amended [Pub. L. 103–183, title VI, § 601(f)(2)](/us/pl/103/183/tVI/s601/f/2), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/107/2239); [Pub. L. 110–23, § 6](/us/pl/110/23/s6), May 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 92](/us/stat/121/92).)"
---
# § 300d–12. Requirement of matching funds for fiscal years subsequent to first fiscal year of payments

##### § 300d–12. Requirement of matching funds for fiscal years subsequent to first fiscal year of payments

(a) Non-Federal contributions

(1) In general The Secretary may not make payments under [section 300d–11(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/a) unless the State involved agrees, with respect to the costs described in paragraph (2), to make available non-Federal contributions (in cash or in kind under subsection (b)(1)) toward such costs in an amount that—

(A) for the second and third fiscal years of such payments to the State, is not less than $1 for each $1 of Federal funds provided in such payments for such fiscal years; and

(B) for the fourth and subsequent fiscal years of such payments to the State, is not less than $2 for each $1 of Federal funds provided in such payments for such fiscal years.

(2) Program costs The costs referred to in paragraph (1) are—

(A) the costs to be incurred by the State in carrying out the purpose described in [section 300d–11(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/b); or

(B) the costs of improving the quality and availability of emergency medical services in rural areas of the State.

(3) Initial year of payments The Secretary may not require a State to make non-Federal contributions as a condition of receiving payments under [section 300d–11(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/a) for the first fiscal year of such payments to the State.

(b) Determination of amount of non-Federal contribution With respect to compliance with subsection (a) as a condition of receiving payments under [section 300d–11(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–11/a)—

(1) a State may make the non-Federal contributions required in such subsection in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services; and

(2) the Secretary may not, in making a determination of the amount of non-Federal contributions, include amounts provided by the Federal Government or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal Government.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XII, § 1212, as added [Pub. L. 101–590, § 3](/us/pl/101/590/s3), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2919](/us/stat/104/2919); amended [Pub. L. 103–183, title VI, § 601(f)(2)](/us/pl/103/183/tVI/s601/f/2), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/107/2239); [Pub. L. 110–23, § 6](/us/pl/110/23/s6), May 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 92](/us/stat/121/92).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2007—[Pub. L. 110–23](/us/pl/110/23) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to requirement of matching funds for fiscal years subsequent to first fiscal year of payments.

1993—Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 103–183](/us/pl/103/183) substituted “section 300d–11(b)” for “section 300d–11(c)”.
