---
title: "§ 1962a–3. Review of river basin commission plans; report to President and Congress"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1962a–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1962a–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–80, title I, § 104](/us/pl/89/80/tI/s104), July 22, 1965, [79 Stat. 245](/us/stat/79/245).)"
---
# § 1962a–3. Review of river basin commission plans; report to President and Congress

##### § 1962a–3. Review of river basin commission plans; report to President and Congress

(1) the efficacy of such plan or revision in achieving optimum use of the water and related land resources in the area involved;

(2) the effect of the plan on the achievement of other programs for the development of agricultural, urban, energy, industrial, recreational, fish and wildlife, and other resources of the entire Nation; and

(3) the contributions which such plan or revision will make in obtaining the Nation’s economic and social goals.

(a) formulate such recommendations as it deems desirable in the national interest; and

(b) transmit its recommendations, together with the plan or revision of the river basin commission and the views, comments, and recommendations with respect to such plan or revision submitted by any Federal agency, Governor, interstate commission, or United States section of an international commission, to the President for his review and transmittal to the Congress with his recommendations in regard to authorization of Federal projects.

*([Pub. L. 89–80, title I, § 104](/us/pl/89/80/tI/s104), July 22, 1965, [79 Stat. 245](/us/stat/79/245).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 11747. Delegation of Presidential Functions

Ex. Ord. No. 11747, eff. Nov. 7, 1973, 38 F.R. 30993, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 12608, Sept. 9, 1987, 52 F.R. 34617, provided:

By virtue of the authority vested in me by [section 301 of title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301) of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:

The Chairman of the Water Resources Council is designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the approval function for standards and procedures vested in the President by section 103 of the Water Resources Planning Act, as amended ([42 U.S.C. 1962a–2](/us/usc/t42/s1962a–2)).
