---
title: "§ 6191. Reports in connection with permanent closures of Department of Energy defense nuclear facilities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6191"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6191"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1395](/us/stat/139/1395).)"
---
# § 6191. Reports in connection with permanent closures of Department of Energy defense nuclear facilities

##### § 6191. Reports in connection with permanent closures of Department of Energy defense nuclear facilities

(a) Training and Job Placement Services Plan.— Not later than 120 days before a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility permanently ceases all production and processing operations, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing a discussion of the training and job placement services needed to enable the employees at such facility to obtain employment in the defense environmental cleanup activities at such facility. The discussion shall include the actions that should be taken by the contractor operating and managing such facility to provide retraining and job placement services to employees of such contractor.

(b) Closure Report.— Upon the permanent cessation of production operations at a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to Congress a report containing—

(1) a complete survey of environmental problems at the facility;

(2) budget quality data indicating the cost of defense environmental cleanup activities at the facility; and

(3) a discussion of the proposed cleanup schedule.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1395](/us/stat/139/1395).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2602 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2602), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
