---
title: "§ 145. Certificate of incorporation"
identifier: "USC-T15-S145"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section145"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Sept. 19, 1922, ch. 346, § 5](/us/act/1922-09-19/ch346/s5), [42 Stat. 850](/us/stat/42/850).)"
---
# § 145. Certificate of incorporation

##### § 145. Certificate of incorporation

The Secretary shall, upon the filing of such application, issue a certificate of incorporation certifying that the provisions of this chapter have been complied with and declaring that the incorporators are a body corporate, if (a) an incorporation fee of $100 has been paid him; (b) he finds that the articles of incorporation and statements therein conform to the requirements of, and that the incorporation is authorized by, this chapter; and (c) he finds that such corporation will aid in developing markets in China for goods produced in the United States. A copy of the articles of incorporation shall be made a part of the certificate of incorporation and printed in full thereon. Any failure, previous to the issuance of the certificate of incorporation, by the incorporators or in respect to the application for the certificate of incorporation, to conform to any requirement of law which is a condition precedent to such issuance, may not subsequent thereto be held to invalidate the certificate of incorporation or alter the legal status of any act of a China Trade Act corporation, except in proceedings instituted by the registrar for the revocation of the certificate of incorporation.

*([Sept. 19, 1922, ch. 346, § 5](/us/act/1922-09-19/ch346/s5), [42 Stat. 850](/us/stat/42/850).)*
