---
title: "§ 16471. Consumer privacy and unfair trade practices"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16471"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16471"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title XII, § 1287](/us/pl/109/58/tXII/s1287), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 981](/us/stat/119/981).)"
---
# § 16471. Consumer privacy and unfair trade practices

##### § 16471. Consumer privacy and unfair trade practices

(a) Privacy The Federal Trade Commission may issue rules protecting the privacy of electric consumers from the disclosure of consumer information obtained in connection with the sale or delivery of electric energy to electric consumers.

(b) Slamming The Federal Trade Commission may issue rules prohibiting the change of selection of an electric utility except with the informed consent of the electric consumer or if approved by the appropriate State regulatory authority.

(c) Cramming The Federal Trade Commission may issue rules prohibiting the sale of goods and services to an electric consumer unless expressly authorized by law or the electric consumer.

(d) Rulemaking The Federal Trade Commission shall proceed in accordance with [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553) when prescribing a rule under this section.

(e) State authority If the Federal Trade Commission determines that a State’s regulations provide equivalent or greater protection than the provisions of this section, such State regulations shall apply in that State in lieu of the regulations issued by the Commission under this section.

(f) Definitions For purposes of this section:

(1) State regulatory authority The term “State regulatory authority” has the meaning given that term in [section 796(21) of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s796/21).

(2) Electric consumer and electric utility The terms “electric consumer” and “electric utility” have the meanings given those terms in [section 2602 of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s2602).

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title XII, § 1287](/us/pl/109/58/tXII/s1287), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 981](/us/stat/119/981).)*
