---
title: "§ 4604. Changes to certain documents"
identifier: "USC-T10-S4604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 802(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s802/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 940](/us/stat/139/940).)"
---
# § 4604. Changes to certain documents

##### § 4604. Changes to certain documents

(a) In General.— Each document referred to in a contract or other agreement for procurement entered into by the Secretary of Defense shall include a notation that—

(1) provides the version of such document that is applicable to such contract or other agreement; and

(2) indicates whether any changes have been made to such document after the issuance of the solicitation pursuant to which such contract or other agreement was entered into.

(b) Unnotated Documents.— With respect to a document referred to in a contract or other agreement described in subsection (a) that does not include the notation required under such subsection, the version of the document that shall apply with respect to such contract or other agreement is the version in effect at the time of the issuance of the solicitation pursuant to which such contract or other agreement was entered into.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 802(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s802/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 940](/us/stat/139/940).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 4621 and 4622 were renumbered sections 7621 and 7622 of this title, respectively.

A prior section 4623, [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 258](/us/stat/70A/258), provided that the Quartermaster Corps sell not more than 16 ounces of tobacco a month to an enlisted member of the Army on active duty who requests it, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 91–482, § 1(a)](/us/pl/91/482/s1/a), Oct. 21, 1970, [84 Stat. 1082](/us/stat/84/1082).

Prior sections 4624 to 4629 were renumbered sections 7624 to 7629 of this title, respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 802(b)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s802/b), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 940](/us/stat/139/940), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall apply with respect to a contract or other agreement entered into after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 18, 2025].”
