---
title: "§ 1701h. Advisory committees; payment of transportation and other expenses"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([July 15, 1949, ch. 338](/us/act/1949-07-15/ch338), title VI, § 601, [63 Stat. 439](/us/stat/63/439); [Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649](/us/act/1954-08-02/ch649), title VIII, § 807, [68 Stat. 645](/us/stat/68/645); [Pub. L. 89–117, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/89/117/tXI/s1106), Aug. 10, 1965, [79 Stat. 503](/us/stat/79/503); [Pub. L. 90–19, § 6(h)](/us/pl/90/19/s6/h), May 25, 1967, [81 Stat. 22](/us/stat/81/22); [Pub. L. 98–479, title II, § 202(c)](/us/pl/98/479/tII/s202/c), Oct. 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 2228](/"
---
# § 1701h. Advisory committees; payment of transportation and other expenses

##### § 1701h. Advisory committees; payment of transportation and other expenses

The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is authorized to establish such advisory committee or committees as he may deem necessary in carrying out any of his functions, powers, and duties under this or any other Act or authorization. Persons serving without compensation as members of any such committee may be paid transportation expenses and not to exceed $25 per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by [section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703).

*([July 15, 1949, ch. 338](/us/act/1949-07-15/ch338), title VI, § 601, [63 Stat. 439](/us/stat/63/439); [Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649](/us/act/1954-08-02/ch649), title VIII, § 807, [68 Stat. 645](/us/stat/68/645); [Pub. L. 89–117, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/89/117/tXI/s1106), Aug. 10, 1965, [79 Stat. 503](/us/stat/79/503); [Pub. L. 90–19, § 6(h)](/us/pl/90/19/s6/h), May 25, 1967, [81 Stat. 22](/us/stat/81/22); [Pub. L. 98–479, title II, § 202(c)](/us/pl/98/479/tII/s202/c), Oct. 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/98/2228).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [act July 15, 1949, ch. 338](/us/act/1949-07-15/ch338), [63 Stat. 413](/us/stat/63/413), known as the Housing Act of 1949, which is classified principally to chapter 8A (§ 1441 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1441 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1441) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing Act of 1949, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–479](/us/pl/98/479) substituted “[section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703)” for “[section 5 of the Act of August 2, 1946](/us/act/1946-08-02/s5) ([5 U.S.C. 73b–2](/us/usc/t5/s73b–2))”.

1967—[Pub. L. 90–19](/us/pl/90/19) substituted “The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development” and “he” for “The Housing and Home Finance Administrator and the head of each constituent agency of the Housing and Home Finance Agency” and “each”, respectively.

1965—[Pub. L. 89–117](/us/pl/89/117) struck out provision that declared inapplicable the conflict-of-interest statutes in the case of members of advisory committees.

1954—Act Aug. 2, 1954, permitted heads of constituent agencies of the Housing and Home Finance Agency to establish advisory committees, inserted provisions relating to inapplicability of the conflict-of-interest statutes with respect to committee members serving without compensation, and inserted provisions relating to payment of expenses.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 10486. Advisory Committee on Government Housing Policies and Programs

Ex. Ord. No. 10486, Sept. 12, 1953, 18 F.R. 5561, provided:

1. There shall be established the Advisory Committee on Government Housing Policies and Programs.

2. The Committee shall make, or cause to be made, studies and surveys of the housing policies and programs of the Government and the organization within the Executive Branch for the administration of such policies and programs, and shall advise the Housing and Home Finance Administrator and the President with respect thereto.

3. The Housing and Home Finance Administrator shall serve as the Chairman of the Committee, and the other members of the Committee shall be appointed pursuant to the provisions of this Executive Order and Section 601 of the Housing Act of 1949 ([63 Stat. 439](/us/stat/63/439)) [this section].

4. To work directly with the Housing and Home Finance Administrator in the task of directing specific studies and surveys and developing concrete recommendations, there shall be in the Committee an Executive Committee, consisting of members of the Committee designated for such purpose, and the Housing and Home Finance Administrator shall serve as the Chairman of such Executive Committee.

5. Administrative expenses in connection with the work of the Committee, including expenses of advisers and consultants appointed by the Chairman in connection therewith, shall, upon authorization therefor by the Chairman or his delegate, be paid pursuant to the authority therefor under the heading, “Housing and Home Finance Agency, Office of the Administrator” in the Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1954 (Public Law 207, Eighty-third Congress, approved August 7, 1953).
