---
title: "§ 639. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T28-S639"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section639"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 917](/us/stat/62/917); [Pub. L. 90–578, title I, § 101](/us/pl/90/578/tI/s101), Oct. 17, 1968, [82 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/82/1114); [Pub. L. 101–650, title III, § 321](/us/pl/101/650/tIII/s321), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5117](/us/stat/104/5117).)"
---
# § 639. Definitions

##### § 639. Definitions

(1) “Conference” shall mean the Judicial Conference of the United States;

(2) “Council” shall mean the Judicial Council of the Circuit;

(3) “Director” shall mean the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts;

(4) “Full-time magistrate judge” shall mean a full-time United States magistrate judge;

(5) “Part-time magistrate judge” shall mean a part-time United States magistrate judge; and

(6) “United States magistrate judge” and “magistrate judge” shall mean both full-time and part-time United States magistrate judges.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 917](/us/stat/62/917); [Pub. L. 90–578, title I, § 101](/us/pl/90/578/tI/s101), Oct. 17, 1968, [82 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/82/1114); [Pub. L. 101–650, title III, § 321](/us/pl/101/650/tIII/s321), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5117](/us/stat/104/5117).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 528a ([July 10, 1946, ch. 548](/us/act/1946-07-10/ch548), [60 Stat. 525](/us/stat/60/525)).

Provisions of [section 528a of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s528a), U.S.C., 1940 ed., for furnishing seal is included in [section 638 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s638).

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1968—[Pub. L. 90–578](/us/pl/90/578) substituted definition provisions for prior requirements obligating the Director to furnish docket books and forms to United States commissioners and, with approval of the chief judge of the district court, a copy of the United States Code, declaring such property to remain United States property, and calling for transmission of such property to successors in office or for its disposal as directed by the Director, now incorporated in section 638(a) and (b) of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Words “magistrate judge” and “magistrate judges” substituted for “magistrate” and “magistrates”, respectively, wherever appearing in text pursuant to [section 321 of Pub. L. 101–650](/us/pl/101/650/s321), set out as a note under [section 631 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s631).

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–578](/us/pl/90/578) effective Oct. 17, 1968, except when a later effective date is applicable, which is the earlier of date when implementation of amendment by appointment of magistrates [now United States magistrate judges] and assumption of office takes place or third anniversary of enactment of [Pub. L. 90–578](/us/pl/90/578) on Oct. 17, 1968, see [section 403 of Pub. L. 90–578](/us/pl/90/578/s403), set out as a note under [section 631 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s631).
