---
title: "§ 3105. Appointment of administrative law judges"
identifier: "USC-T5-S3105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section3105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 415](/us/stat/80/415); [Pub. L. 95–251, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/251/s2/a/1), (b)(2), (d)(1), Mar. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 183](/us/stat/92/183), 184.)"
---
# § 3105. Appointment of administrative law judges

##### § 3105. Appointment of administrative law judges

Each agency shall appoint as many administrative law judges as are necessary for proceedings required to be conducted in accordance with sections 556 and 557 of this title. Administrative law judges shall be assigned to cases in rotation so far as practicable, and may not perform duties inconsistent with their duties and responsibilities as administrative law judges.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 415](/us/stat/80/415); [Pub. L. 95–251, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/251/s2/a/1), (b)(2), (d)(1), Mar. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 183](/us/stat/92/183), 184.)*

The words “Subject to the civil service” are omitted as unnecessary inasmuch as appointments are made subject to the civil service laws unless specifically excepted. The words “and other laws not inconsistent with this chapter” are omitted as unnecessary because of the organization of this title.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 1010 (1st sentence). | June 11, 1946, ch. 324, § 11 (1st sentence), 60 Stat. 244. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–251](/us/pl/95/251) substituted references to administrative law judges for references to hearing examiners in section catchline and wherever appearing in text.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Hearing Examiners Appointed for Indian Probate Work

Hearing examiners appointed for Indian probate work pursuant to former [section 372–1 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s372–1), Indians, having met qualifications required for appointment pursuant to this section, deemed to have been appointed pursuant to this section, see [section 12(b) of Pub. L. 101–301](/us/pl/101/301/s12/b), set out as a Savings Provision note under former [section 372–1 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s372–1).

#### References to Hearing Examiner Deemed References to Administrative Law Judge

[Pub. L. 95–251, § 3](/us/pl/95/251/s3), Mar. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 184](/us/stat/92/184), provided that: “Any reference in any law, regulation, or order to a hearing examiner appointed under [section 3105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3105), United States Code, shall be deemed to be a reference to an administrative law judge.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Hearing Examiners Employed by Department of Agriculture

Functions vested by section 551 et seq. of this title in hearing examiners employed by Department of Agriculture not included in functions of officers, agencies, and employees of that Department transferred to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out in the Appendix to this title.

#### Hearing Examiners Employed by Department of Commerce

Functions vested by section 551 et seq. of this title in hearing examiners employed by Department of Commerce not included in functions of officers, agencies, and employees of that Department transferred to Secretary of Commerce by 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 5, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/64/1263), set out in the Appendix to this title.

#### Hearing Examiners Employed by Department of the Interior

Functions vested by section 551 et seq. of this title in hearing examiners employed by Department of the Interior not included in functions of officers, agencies, and employees of that Department transferred to Secretary of the Interior by 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), transferred set out in the Appendix to this title.

#### Hearing Examiners Employed by Department of Justice

Functions vested by section 551 et seq. of this title in hearing examiners employed by Department of Justice not included in functions of officers, agencies, and employees of that Department transferred to Attorney General by 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3173, [64 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/64/1261), set out in the Appendix to this title.

#### Hearing Examiners Employed by Department of Labor

Functions vested by section 551 et seq. of this title in hearing examiners employed by Department of Labor not included in functions of officers, agencies, and employees of Department transferred to Secretary of Labor by 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 6, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/64/1263), set out in the Appendix to this title.

#### Hearing Examiners Employed by Department of the Treasury

Functions vested by section 551 et seq. of this title in hearing examiners employed by Department of the Treasury not included in functions of officers, agencies, and employees of Department transferred to Secretary of the Treasury by 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 26, § 1, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, [64 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/64/1280), set out in the Appendix to this title.
