---
title: "§ 1456c. Technical assistance"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1456c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1456c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–454, title III, § 310](/us/pl/89/454/tIII/s310), as added [Pub. L. 101–508, title VI, § 6211](/us/pl/101/508/tVI/s6211), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–311](/us/stat/104/1388-311).)"
---
# § 1456c. Technical assistance

##### § 1456c. Technical assistance

(a) The Secretary shall conduct a program of technical assistance and management-oriented research necessary to support the development and implementation of State coastal management program amendments under [section 1456b of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1456b), and appropriate to the furtherance of international cooperative efforts and technical assistance in coastal zone management. Each department, agency, and instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government may assist the Secretary, on a reimbursable basis or otherwise, in carrying out the purposes of this section, including the furnishing of information to the extent permitted by law, the transfer of personnel with their consent and without prejudice to their position and rating, and the performance of any research, study, and technical assistance which does not interfere with the performance of the primary duties of such department, agency, or instrumentality. The Secretary may enter into contracts or other arrangements with any qualified person for the purposes of carrying out this subsection.

(b)

(1) The Secretary shall provide for the coordination of technical assistance, studies, and research activities under this section with any other such activities that are conducted by or subject to the authority of the Secretary.

(2) The Secretary shall make the results of research and studies conducted pursuant to this section available to coastal states in the form of technical assistance publications, workshops, or other means appropriate.

(3) The Secretary shall consult with coastal states on a regular basis regarding the development and implementation of the program established by this section.

*([Pub. L. 89–454, title III, § 310](/us/pl/89/454/tIII/s310), as added [Pub. L. 101–508, title VI, § 6211](/us/pl/101/508/tVI/s6211), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–311](/us/stat/104/1388-311).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1456c, [Pub. L. 89–454, title III, § 310](/us/pl/89/454/tIII/s310), as added [Pub. L. 94–370, § 9](/us/pl/94/370/s9), July 26, 1976, [90 Stat. 1029](/us/stat/90/1029), related to research and technical assistance for coastal zone management, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 99–272, title VI, § 6045(1)](/us/pl/99/272/tVI/s6045/1), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 127](/us/stat/100/127).
