---
title: "§ 3601. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3601"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3601"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–176, § 2](/us/pl/103/176/s2), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2004](/us/stat/107/2004).)"
---
# § 3601. Findings

##### § 3601. Findings

(1) there is a government-to-government relationship between the United States and each Indian tribe;

(2) the United States has a trust responsibility to each tribal government that includes the protection of the sovereignty of each tribal government;

(3) Congress, through statutes, treaties, and the exercise of administrative authorities, has recognized the self-determination, self-reliance, and inherent sovereignty of Indian tribes;

(4) Indian tribes possess the inherent authority to establish their own form of government, including tribal justice systems;

(5) tribal justice systems are an essential part of tribal governments and serve as important forums for ensuring public health and safety and the political integrity of tribal governments;

(6) Congress and the Federal courts have repeatedly recognized tribal justice systems as the appropriate forums for the adjudication of disputes affecting personal and property rights;

(7) traditional tribal justice practices are essential to the maintenance of the culture and identity of Indian tribes and to the goals of this chapter;

(8) tribal justice systems are inadequately funded, and the lack of adequate funding impairs their operation; and

(9) tribal government involvement in and commitment to improving tribal justice systems is essential to the accomplishment of the goals of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 103–176, § 2](/us/pl/103/176/s2), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2004](/us/stat/107/2004).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 103–176, § 1](/us/pl/103/176/s1), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2004](/us/stat/107/2004), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Indian Tribal Justice Act’.”
