---
title: "§ 2000e–1. Exemption"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–352, title VII, § 702](/us/pl/88/352/tVII/s702), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 255](/us/stat/78/255); [Pub. L. 92–261, § 3](/us/pl/92/261/s3), Mar. 24, 1972, [86 Stat. 103](/us/stat/86/103); [Pub. L. 102–166, title I, § 109(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/166/tI/s109/b/1), Nov. 21, 1991, [105 Stat. 1077](/us/stat/105/1077).)"
---
# § 2000e–1. Exemption

##### § 2000e–1. Exemption

(a) Inapplicability of subchapter to certain aliens and employees of religious entities This subchapter shall not apply to an employer with respect to the employment of aliens outside any State, or to a religious corporation, association, educational institution, or society with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporation, association, educational institution, or society of its activities.

(b) Compliance with statute as violative of foreign law It shall not be unlawful under section 2000e–2 or 2000e–3 of this title for an employer (or a corporation controlled by an employer), labor organization, employment agency, or joint labor-management committee controlling apprenticeship or other training or retraining (including on-the-job training programs) to take any action otherwise prohibited by such section, with respect to an employee in a workplace in a foreign country if compliance with such section would cause such employer (or such corporation), such organization, such agency, or such committee to violate the law of the foreign country in which such workplace is located.

(c) Control of corporation incorporated in foreign country

(1) If an employer controls a corporation whose place of incorporation is a foreign country, any practice prohibited by section 2000e–2 or 2000e–3 of this title engaged in by such corporation shall be presumed to be engaged in by such employer.

(2) Sections 2000e–2 and 2000e–3 of this title shall not apply with respect to the foreign operations of an employer that is a foreign person not controlled by an American employer.

(3) For purposes of this subsection, the determination of whether an employer controls a corporation shall be based on—

of the employer and the corporation.

(A) the interrelation of operations;

(B) the common management;

(C) the centralized control of labor relations; and

(D) the common ownership or financial control,

*([Pub. L. 88–352, title VII, § 702](/us/pl/88/352/tVII/s702), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 255](/us/stat/78/255); [Pub. L. 92–261, § 3](/us/pl/92/261/s3), Mar. 24, 1972, [86 Stat. 103](/us/stat/86/103); [Pub. L. 102–166, title I, § 109(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/166/tI/s109/b/1), Nov. 21, 1991, [105 Stat. 1077](/us/stat/105/1077).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–166](/us/pl/102/166) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

1972—[Pub. L. 92–261](/us/pl/92/261) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “This subchapter shall not apply to an employer with respect to the employment of aliens outside any State, or to a religious corporation, association, or society with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporation, association, or society of its religious activities or to an educational institution with respect to the employment of individuals to perform work connected with the educational activities of such institution.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1991 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–166](/us/pl/102/166) inapplicable to conduct occurring before Nov. 21, 1991, see [section 109(c) of Pub. L. 102–166](/us/pl/102/166/s109/c), set out as a note under [section 2000e of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000e).
