---
title: "§ 3612. Accelerating innovation at Cooperative Institutes"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3612"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3612"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CI, § 10104](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCI/s10104), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3958](/us/stat/136/3958).)"
---
# § 3612. Accelerating innovation at Cooperative Institutes

##### § 3612. Accelerating innovation at Cooperative Institutes

(a) Focus on emerging technologies The Administrator shall consider evaluating the goals of 1 or more Cooperative Institutes of the Administration to include focusing on advancing or applying emerging technologies, which may include—

(1) applied uses and development of real-time and other advanced genetic technologies and applications, including such technologies and applications that derive genetic material directly from environmental samples without any obvious signs of biological source material;

(2) deployment of, and improvements to the durability, maintenance, and other lifecycle concerns of, advanced unmanned vehicles, regional small research vessels, and other research vessels that support and launch unmanned vehicles and sensors; and

(3) supercomputing and big data management, including data collected through model outputs, electronic monitoring, and remote sensing.

(b) Coordination with other programs The Cooperative Institutes shall work with the Interagency Ocean Observation Committee, the regional associations of the Integrated Ocean Observing System, and other ocean observing programs to coordinate technology needs and the transition of new technologies from research to operations.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CI, § 10104](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCI/s10104), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3958](/us/stat/136/3958).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, and not as part of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2009 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Purpose

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CI, § 10101](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCI/s10101), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3957](/us/stat/136/3957), provided that: “The purpose of this title [enacting this section and [section 3613 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3613), amending [section 893c of this title](/us/usc/t33/s893c), and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] is to promote and support— “(1) the monitoring, understanding, and exploration of the Great Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and coasts; and “(2) the collection, analysis, synthesis, and sharing of data related to the Great Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and coasts to facilitate scientific research and operational decisionmaking.”

#### No Additional Funds Authorized

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CI, § 10106](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCI/s10106), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3961](/us/stat/136/3961), provided that: “Funds to carry out this title [enacting this section and [section 3613 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3613), amending [section 893c of this title](/us/usc/t33/s893c), and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] may, as provided in advance in appropriations Acts, only come from within amounts authorized to be appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.”

#### Definitions

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CI, § 10102](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCI/s10102), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3957](/us/stat/136/3957), provided that: “In this title [enacting this section and [section 3613 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3613), amending [section 893c of this title](/us/usc/t33/s893c), and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section]: “(1) Administration.—The term ‘Administration’ means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. “(2) Administrator.—The term ‘Administrator’ means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere in the capacity as Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. “(3) Indian tribe.—The term ‘Indian Tribe’ has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 5304](/us/usc/t25/s5304)).”
