---
title: "§ 3221. Brownfields redevelopment report"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3221"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3221"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–136, title VI, § 611](/us/pl/89/136/tVI/s611), as added [Pub. L. 108–373, title VI, § 603(a)](/us/pl/108/373/tVI/s603/a), Oct. 27, 2004, [118 Stat. 1769](/us/stat/118/1769).)"
---
# § 3221. Brownfields redevelopment report

##### § 3221. Brownfields redevelopment report

(a) Definition of brownfield site In this section, the term “brownfield site” has the meaning given the term in [section 9601(39) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9601/39).

(b) Report

(1) In general Not later than 1 year after October 27, 2004, the Comptroller General shall prepare a report that evaluates the grants made by the Economic Development Administration for the economic development of brownfield sites.

(2) Contents The report shall—

(A) identify each project conducted during the previous 10-year period in which grant funds have been used for brownfield sites redevelopment activities; and

(B) include for each project a description of—

(i) the type of economic development activities conducted;

(ii) if remediation activities were conducted—

(I) the type of remediation activities; and

(II) the amount of grant money used for those activities in dollars and as a percentage of the total grant award;

(iii) the economic development and environmental standards applied, if applicable;

(iv) the economic development impact of the project;

(v) the role of Federal, State, or local environmental agencies, if any; and

(vi) public participation in the project.

(3) Submission of report The Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a copy of the report.

*([Pub. L. 89–136, title VI, § 611](/us/pl/89/136/tVI/s611), as added [Pub. L. 108–373, title VI, § 603(a)](/us/pl/108/373/tVI/s603/a), Oct. 27, 2004, [118 Stat. 1769](/us/stat/118/1769).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3221, [Pub. L. 89–136, title VII, § 711](/us/pl/89/136/tVII/s711), Aug. 26, 1965, [79 Stat. 574](/us/stat/79/574), related to employment of expediters and administrative employees, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 105–393, title I, § 102(b)(3)](/us/pl/105/393/tI/s102/b/3), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3617](/us/stat/112/3617).
