---
title: "§ 7547. Nonroad engines and vehicles"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7547"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7547"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title II, § 213, as added [Pub. L. 93–319, § 10](/us/pl/93/319/s10), June 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 261](/us/stat/88/261); amended [Pub. L. 101–549, title II, § 222(a)](/us/pl/101/549/tII/s222/a), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2500](/us/stat/104/2500).)"
---
# § 7547. Nonroad engines and vehicles

##### § 7547. Nonroad engines and vehicles

(a) Emissions standards

(1) The Administrator shall conduct a study of emissions from nonroad engines and nonroad vehicles (other than locomotives or engines used in locomotives) to determine if such emissions cause, or significantly contribute to, air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare. Such study shall be completed within 12 months of November 15, 1990.

(2) After notice and opportunity for public hearing, the Administrator shall determine within 12 months after completion of the study under paragraph (1), based upon the results of such study, whether emissions of carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, and volatile organic compounds from new and existing nonroad engines or nonroad vehicles (other than locomotives or engines used in locomotives) are significant contributors to ozone or carbon monoxide concentrations in more than 1 area which has failed to attain the national ambient air quality standards for ozone or carbon monoxide. Such determination shall be included in the regulations under paragraph (3).

(3) If the Administrator makes an affirmative determination under paragraph (2) the Administrator shall, within 12 months after completion of the study under paragraph (1), promulgate (and from time to time revise) regulations containing standards applicable to emissions from those classes or categories of new nonroad engines and new nonroad vehicles (other than locomotives or engines used in locomotives) which in the Administrator’s judgment cause, or contribute to, such air pollution. Such standards shall achieve the greatest degree of emission reduction achievable through the application of technology which the Administrator determines will be available for the engines or vehicles to which such standards apply, giving appropriate consideration to the cost of applying such technology within the period of time available to manufacturers and to noise, energy, and safety factors associated with the application of such technology. In determining what degree of reduction will be available, the Administrator shall first consider standards equivalent in stringency to standards for comparable motor vehicles or engines (if any) regulated under [section 7521 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7521), taking into account the technological feasibility, costs, safety, noise, and energy factors associated with achieving, as appropriate, standards of such stringency and lead time. The regulations shall apply to the useful life of the engines or vehicles (as determined by the Administrator).

(4) If the Administrator determines that any emissions not referred to in paragraph (2) from new nonroad engines or vehicles significantly contribute to air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, the Administrator may promulgate (and from time to time revise) such regulations as the Administrator deems appropriate containing standards applicable to emissions from those classes or categories of new nonroad engines and new nonroad vehicles (other than locomotives or engines used in locomotives) which in the Administrator’s judgment cause, or contribute to, such air pollution, taking into account costs, noise, safety, and energy factors associated with the application of technology which the Administrator determines will be available for the engines and vehicles to which such standards apply. The regulations shall apply to the useful life of the engines or vehicles (as determined by the Administrator).

(5) Within 5 years after November 15, 1990, the Administrator shall promulgate regulations containing standards applicable to emissions from new locomotives and new engines used in locomotives. Such standards shall achieve the greatest degree of emission reduction achievable through the application of technology which the Administrator determines will be available for the locomotives or engines to which such standards apply, giving appropriate consideration to the cost of applying such technology within the period of time available to manufacturers and to noise, energy, and safety factors associated with the application of such technology.

(b) Effective date Standards under this section shall take effect at the earliest possible date considering the lead time necessary to permit the development and application of the requisite technology, giving appropriate consideration to the cost of compliance within such period and energy and safety.

(c) Safe controls Effective with respect to new engines or vehicles to which standards under this section apply, no emission control device, system, or element of design shall be used in such a new nonroad engine or new nonroad vehicle for purposes of complying with such standards if such device, system, or element of design will cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety in its operation or function. In determining whether an unreasonable risk exists, the Administrator shall consider factors including those described in [section 7521(a)(4)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7521/a/4/B).

(d) Enforcement The standards under this section shall be subject to sections 7525, 7541, 7542, and 7543 of this title, with such modifications of the applicable regulations implementing such sections as the Administrator deems appropriate, and shall be enforced in the same manner as standards prescribed under [section 7521 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7521). The Administrator shall revise or promulgate regulations as may be necessary to determine compliance with, and enforce, standards in effect under this section.

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title II, § 213, as added [Pub. L. 93–319, § 10](/us/pl/93/319/s10), June 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 261](/us/stat/88/261); amended [Pub. L. 101–549, title II, § 222(a)](/us/pl/101/549/tII/s222/a), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2500](/us/stat/104/2500).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1857f–6f of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1857f–6f).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 213 of act July 14, 1955, was renumbered section 214 by [Pub. L. 93–319](/us/pl/93/319) and renumbered section 216 by [Pub. L. 95–95](/us/pl/95/95), and is classified to [section 7550 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7550).

#### Amendments

1990—[Pub. L. 101–549](/us/pl/101/549) amended section generally, substituting present provisions for provisions requiring Administrator and Secretary of Transportation to conduct study on fuel economy improvement for new motor vehicles manufactured during and after model year 1980.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations Relating to Standards To Reduce Emissions

[Pub. L. 108–199, div. G, title IV, § 428(b)](/us/pl/108/199/dG/tIV/s428/b), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 418](/us/stat/118/418), provided that: “Not later than December 1, 2004, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall propose regulations under the Clean Air Act [[42 U.S.C. 7401](/us/usc/t42/s7401) et seq.] that shall contain standards to reduce emissions from new nonroad spark-ignition engines smaller than 50 horsepower. Not later than December 31, 2005, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal Register final regulations containing such standards.”
