---
title: "§ 1233. Violations and penalties"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1233"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1233"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–506, § 4](/us/pl/85/506/s4), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 326](/us/stat/72/326).)"
---
# § 1233. Violations and penalties

##### § 1233. Violations and penalties

(a) Failure to affix required label Any manufacturer of automobiles distributed in commerce who willfully fails to affix to any new automobile manufactured or imported by him the label required by [section 1232 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1232) shall be fined not more than $1,000. Such failure with respect to each automobile shall constitute a separate offense.

(b) Failure to endorse required label Any manufacturer of automobiles distributed in commerce who willfully fails to endorse clearly, distinctly and legibly any label as required by [section 1232 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1232), or who makes a false endorsement of any such label, shall be fined not more than $1,000. Such failure or false endorsement with respect to each automobile shall constitute a separate offense.

(c) Removal, alteration, or illegibility of required label Any person who willfully removes, alters, or renders illegible any label affixed to a new automobile pursuant to [section 1232 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1232), or any endorsement thereon, prior to the time that such automobile is delivered to the actual custody and possession of the ultimate purchaser of such new automobile, except where the manufacturer relabels the automobile in the event the same is rerouted, repurchased, or reacquired by the manufacturer of such automobile, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Such removal, alteration, or rendering illegible with respect to each automobile shall constitute a separate offense.

*([Pub. L. 85–506, § 4](/us/pl/85/506/s4), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 326](/us/stat/72/326).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the later of Oct. 1, 1958, or the first day of the introduction of any new model of automobile in any line of automobile beginning after July 7, 1958, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 85–506](/us/pl/85/506/s5), set out as a note under [section 1231 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1231).
