---
title: "§ 3075. Authority to use appropriated funds for transportation and reimbursement of certain items"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3075"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3075"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 265](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s265), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/116/3093).)"
---
# § 3075. Authority to use appropriated funds for transportation and reimbursement of certain items

##### § 3075. Authority to use appropriated funds for transportation and reimbursement of certain items

(a) Transportation of effects of deceased officers In the case of an officer who dies on active duty, the Secretary may provide, from appropriations made available to the Administration, transportation (including packing, unpacking, crating, and uncrating) of personal and household effects of that officer to the official residence of record of that officer. However, upon application by the dependents of such an officer, such transportation may be provided to such other location as may be determined by the Secretary.

(b) Reimbursement for supplies furnished by officers to distressed and shipwrecked persons Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, appropriations made available to the Administration may be used to reimburse an officer for food, clothing, medicines, and other supplies furnished by the officer—

(1) for the temporary relief of distressed persons in remote localities; or

(2) to shipwrecked persons who are temporarily provided for by the officer.

*([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 265](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s265), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/116/3093).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 874 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s874) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 107–372](/us/pl/107/372).
