---
title: "§ 8304. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–138, § 5](/us/pl/118/138/s5), Dec. 11, 2024, [138 Stat. 1653](/us/stat/138/1653).)"
---
# § 8304. Reports

##### § 8304. Reports

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after December 11, 2024, and annually thereafter, the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Service, shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations and Environment and Public Works of the Senate, and make available to the public on the website of the Service, a report on the Coastal Program carried out under this chapter.

(b) Requirements Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall assess on regional and nationwide bases—

(1) Coastal Program work on coastal ecosystems;

(2) progress made by the Coastal Program toward identifying the leading threats to priority coastal landscapes and conservation actions to address those threats; and

(3) prospects for, and success of, protecting, restoring, and enhancing coastal ecosystems.

(c) Inclusions Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) quantitative information on coastal landscapes protected, restored, or enhanced;

(2) funds appropriated to the Coastal Program that have been expended or leveraged;

(3) a description of adaptive management practices implemented; and

(4) a description of emerging challenges or data gaps that hinder the ability of the Coastal Program to achieve the purpose of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 118–138, § 5](/us/pl/118/138/s5), Dec. 11, 2024, [138 Stat. 1653](/us/stat/138/1653).)*
