---
title: "§ 2273. Coins treated as gifts"
identifier: "USC-T2-S2273"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section2273"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–437, title V, § 504](/us/pl/110/437/tV/s504), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4998](/us/stat/122/4998); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title I, § 131](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tI/s131), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 516](/us/stat/136/516).)"
---
# § 2273. Coins treated as gifts

##### § 2273. Coins treated as gifts

(a) Definition In this section, the term “covered grounds” means—

(1) the grounds described under [section 5102 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s5102);

(2) the Capitol Buildings defined under [section 5101 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s5101), including the Capitol Visitor Center; and

(3) the Library of Congress buildings and grounds described under [section 167j of this title](/us/usc/t2/s167j).

(b) Treatment of coins In the case of any coins in any fountains on covered grounds—

(1) such coins shall be treated as gifts to the United States; and

(2) the Architect of the Capitol shall—

(A) collect such coins at such times and in such manner as the Architect determines appropriate; and

(B) except as provided under subsection (c), deposit the collected coins in accordance with subsection (d).

(c) Cost reimbursement Any amount collected under this section shall first be used to reimburse the Architect of the Capitol for any costs incurred in the collection and processing of the coins, and maintaining fountains under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol. The amount of any such reimbursement is appropriated to the account from which such costs were paid and may be used for any authorized purpose of that account.

(d) Deposit of coins The Architect of the Capitol shall deposit coins collected under this section in the Miscellaneous Receipts Account of the Capitol Visitor Center Revolving Fund established under [section 2231 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s2231).

(e) Authorized use and availability Amounts deposited in the Miscellaneous Receipts Account of the Capitol Visitor Center Revolving Fund under this section shall be available as provided under [section 2233(b) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s2233/b).

*([Pub. L. 110–437, title V, § 504](/us/pl/110/437/tV/s504), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4998](/us/stat/122/4998); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title I, § 131](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tI/s131), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 516](/us/stat/136/516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) inserted “, and maintaining fountains under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol” before period at end of first sentence.
