---
title: "§ 903. Field offices"
identifier: "USC-T30-S903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–239, § 18](/us/pl/95/239/s18), Mar. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 105](/us/stat/92/105).)"
---
# § 903. Field offices

##### § 903. Field offices

(a) The Secretary of Labor shall establish and operate such field offices as may be necessary to assist miners and survivors of miners in the filing and processing of claims under this subchapter. Such field offices shall, to the extent feasible, be reasonably accessible to such miners and survivors. The Secretary, in connection with the establishment and operation of field offices, may enter into arrangements with other Federal departments and agencies, and with State agencies, for the use of existing facilities operated by such departments and agencies. Where the establishment of separate facilities is not feasible the Secretary may enter into such arrangements as he deems necessary with the heads of Federal departments, agencies, and instrumentalities and with State agencies for the use of existing facilities and personnel under their control.

(b) There are authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of subsection (a) such sums as may be necessary.

*([Pub. L. 95–239, § 18](/us/pl/95/239/s18), Mar. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 105](/us/stat/92/105).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977, and not as part of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 which comprises this chapter or the Black Lung Benefits Act which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 1, 1978, see [section 20(a) of Pub. L. 95–239](/us/pl/95/239/s20/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 901 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s901).
