---
title: "§ 8105. Structural requirements"
identifier: "USC-T38-S8105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section8105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–22, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/96/22/tIII/s301/a), June 13, 1979, [93 Stat. 57](/us/stat/93/57), § 5005; amended [Pub. L. 96–128, title V, § 501(e)](/us/pl/96/128/tV/s501/e), Nov. 28, 1979, [93 Stat. 987](/us/stat/93/987); renumbered § 8105, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83), §§ 4(a)(3), (4), (b)(1), (2)(E), 5(c)(1), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404–406](/us/stat/105"
---
# § 8105. Structural requirements

##### § 8105. Structural requirements

(a) Each medical facility (including each nursing home facility for which the Secretary contracts under [section 1720 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1720) and each State home facility constructed or altered under subchapter III of this chapter) shall be of fire, earthquake, and other natural disaster resistant construction in accordance with standards which the Secretary shall prescribe on a State or regional basis after surveying appropriate State and local laws, ordinances, and building codes and climatic and seismic conditions pertinent to each such facility. When an existing structure is acquired for use as a medical facility, it shall be altered to comply with such standards.

(b)

(1) In order to carry out this section, the Secretary shall appoint an advisory committee to be known as the “Advisory Committee on Structural Safety of Department Facilities”, on which shall serve at least one architect and one structural engineer who are experts in structural resistance to fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters and who are not employees of the Federal Government.

(2) Such advisory committee shall advise the Secretary on all matters of structural safety in the construction and altering of medical facilities in accordance with the requirements of this section and shall review and make recommendations to the Secretary on the regulations prescribed under this section.

(3) The Associate Deputy Secretary, the Under Secretary for Health or the designee of the Under Secretary for Health, and the Department official charged with the responsibility for construction shall be ex officio members of such advisory committee.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–22, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/96/22/tIII/s301/a), June 13, 1979, [93 Stat. 57](/us/stat/93/57), § 5005; amended [Pub. L. 96–128, title V, § 501(e)](/us/pl/96/128/tV/s501/e), Nov. 28, 1979, [93 Stat. 987](/us/stat/93/987); renumbered § 8105, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83), §§ 4(a)(3), (4), (b)(1), (2)(E), 5(c)(1), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404–406](/us/stat/105/404-406); [Pub. L. 102–405, title III, § 302(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/tIII/s302/c/1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1984](/us/stat/106/1984).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 102–405](/us/pl/102/405) substituted “Under Secretary for Health” for “Chief Medical Director” in two places.

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 5005 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5005) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/c/1), substituted “1720” for “620”.

[Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” in two places.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

[Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), substituted “Department” for “Veterans’ Administration” wherever appearing.

1979—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 96–128](/us/pl/96/128) substituted “subchapter III of this chapter” for “[section 5031 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5031)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–128](/us/pl/96/128) effective Nov. 28, 1979, see [section 601(b) of Pub. L. 96–128](/us/pl/96/128/s601/b), set out as a note under [section 1114 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1114).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1979, but not applicable with respect to the acquisition, construction, or alteration of any medical facilities if the acquisition, construction, or alteration (not including exchange) was approved by the President before Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 302 of Pub. L. 96–22](/us/pl/96/22/s302), set out as a note under [section 8101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s8101).

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
