---
title: "§ 300jj–31. Immediate funding to strengthen the health information technology infrastructure"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300jj–31"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300jj–31"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXX, § 3011, as added [Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13301](/us/pl/111/5/dA/tXIII/s13301), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 246](/us/stat/123/246).)"
---
# § 300jj–31. Immediate funding to strengthen the health information technology infrastructure

##### § 300jj–31. Immediate funding to strengthen the health information technology infrastructure

(a) In general The Secretary shall, using amounts appropriated under [section 300jj–38 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300jj–38), invest in the infrastructure necessary to allow for and promote the electronic exchange and use of health information for each individual in the United States consistent with the goals outlined in the strategic plan developed by the National Coordinator (and as available) under [section 300jj–11 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300jj–11). The Secretary shall invest funds through the different agencies with expertise in such goals, such as the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Centers of Medicare & Medicaid Services, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Indian Health Service to support the following:

(1) Health information technology architecture that will support the nationwide electronic exchange and use of health information in a secure, private, and accurate manner, including connecting health information exchanges, and which may include updating and implementing the infrastructure necessary within different agencies of the Department of Health and Human Services to support the electronic use and exchange of health information.

(2) Development and adoption of appropriate certified electronic health records for categories of health care providers not eligible for support under title XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1395](/us/usc/t42/s1395) et seq., 1396 et seq.] for the adoption of such records.

(3) Training on and dissemination of information on best practices to integrate health information technology, including electronic health records, into a provider’s delivery of care, consistent with best practices learned from the Health Information Technology Research Center developed under [section 300jj–32(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300jj–32/b), including community health centers receiving assistance under [section 254b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s254b), covered entities under [section 256b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s256b), and providers participating in one or more of the programs under titles XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1395](/us/usc/t42/s1395) et seq., 1396 et seq., 1397aa et seq.] (relating to Medicare, Medicaid, and the State Children’s Health Insurance Program).

(4) Infrastructure and tools for the promotion of telemedicine, including coordination among Federal agencies in the promotion of telemedicine.

(5) Promotion of the interoperability of clinical data repositories or registries.

(6) Promotion of technologies and best practices that enhance the protection of health information by all holders of individually identifiable health information.

(7) Improvement and expansion of the use of health information technology by public health departments.

(b) Coordination The Secretary shall ensure funds under this section are used in a coordinated manner with other health information promotion activities.

(c) Additional use of funds In addition to using funds as provided in subsection (a), the Secretary may use amounts appropriated under [section 300jj–38 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300jj–38) to carry out health information technology activities that are provided for under laws in effect on February 17, 2009.

(d) Standards for acquisition of health information technology To the greatest extent practicable, the Secretary shall ensure that where funds are expended under this section for the acquisition of health information technology, such funds shall be used to acquire health information technology that meets applicable standards adopted under [section 300jj–14 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300jj–14). Where it is not practicable to expend funds on health information technology that meets such applicable standards, the Secretary shall ensure that such health information technology meets applicable standards otherwise adopted by the Secretary.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXX, § 3011, as added [Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13301](/us/pl/111/5/dA/tXIII/s13301), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 246](/us/stat/123/246).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), (3), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Titles XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Act are classified generally to subchapters XVIII (§ 1395 et seq.), XIX (§ 1396 et seq.), and XXI (§ 1397aa et seq.) of chapter 7 of this title, respectively. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.
