---
title: "§ 9741. Recovering assets stolen from the Venezuelan people"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9741"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9741"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–94, div. J, title I, § 151](/us/pl/116/94/dJ/tI/s151), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3039](/us/stat/133/3039).)"
---
# § 9741. Recovering assets stolen from the Venezuelan people

##### § 9741. Recovering assets stolen from the Venezuelan people

(a) Recovering assets The President, acting through the Secretary of State and in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall advance a coordinated international effort—

(1) to work with foreign governments—

(A) to share financial investigations intelligence, as appropriate;

(B) to block the assets identified pursuant to paragraph (2); and

(C) to provide technical assistance to help governments establish the necessary legal framework to carry out asset forfeitures; and

(2) to carry out special financial investigations to identify and track assets taken from the people and institutions of Venezuela through theft, corruption, money laundering, or other illicit means.

(b) Strategy requirement

(1) In general Not later than 180 days after December 20, 2019, the President, acting through the Secretary of State and in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit a strategy for carrying out the activities described in subsection (a) to Congress.

(2) Additional elements The strategy required under paragraph (1) shall—

(A) assess whether the United States or another member of the international community should establish a managed fund to hold the assets identified pursuant to subsection (a)(2) that could be returned to a future democratic government in Venezuela; and

(B) include such recommendations as the President and the Secretary of State consider appropriate for legislative or administrative action in the United States that would be needed to establish and manage the fund described in subparagraph (A).

*([Pub. L. 116–94, div. J, title I, § 151](/us/pl/116/94/dJ/tI/s151), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3039](/us/stat/133/3039).)*
