---
title: "§ 1886a. Data on specific fields of study"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1886a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1886a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–155, title VII, § 721](/us/pl/109/155/tVII/s721), Dec. 30, 2005, [119 Stat. 2938](/us/stat/119/2938).)"
---
# § 1886a. Data on specific fields of study

##### § 1886a. Data on specific fields of study

The National Science Foundation shall continue to collect statistically reliable data on the field of degree of college-educated individuals to fulfill obligations under [section 1863(j)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1863/j/1) and the Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act [[42 U.S.C. 1885](/us/usc/t42/s1885) et seq.]. If the Director of the Foundation determines that there is a legal impediment to the continued collection of this data, he shall inform the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate not later than 180 days after December 30, 2005.

*([Pub. L. 109–155, title VII, § 721](/us/pl/109/155/tVII/s721), Dec. 30, 2005, [119 Stat. 2938](/us/stat/119/2938).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act, referred to in text, is Part B of [Pub. L. 96–516](/us/pl/96/516), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3010](/us/stat/94/3010), which enacted sections 1885 to 1885d of this title and provisions set out as notes under sections 1861 and 1885 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1980 Amendment note set out under [section 1861 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1861) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section, formerly classified to [section 16831 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16831), was transferred following the enactment of Title 51, National and Commercial Space Programs, by [Pub. L. 111–314](/us/pl/111/314).

Section was enacted as part of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2005, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Science of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007. Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.
