---
title: "§ 371. Use of free bathhouses limited"
identifier: "USC-T16-S371"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section371"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Mar. 2, 1911, ch. 200](/us/act/1911-03-02/ch200), [36 Stat. 1015](/us/stat/36/1015); [Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 161, § 1](/us/act/1921-03-04/ch161/s1), [41 Stat. 1407](/us/stat/41/1407); [June 26, 1936, ch. 843](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch843), [49 Stat. 1979](/us/stat/49/1979).)"
---
# § 371. Use of free bathhouses limited

##### § 371. Use of free bathhouses limited

Only persons who are without and unable to obtain the means to pay for baths and are suffering from ailments for which bathing in the water of the Hot Springs National Park will afford relief or effect a cure shall be permitted to bathe at the free bathhouse on the public reservation at Hot Springs, Arkansas, and before any person shall be permitted to bathe at the free bathhouse on the reservation he shall be required to make oath, before such officer duly authorized to administer oaths for general purposes as the superintendent of the Hot Springs National Park shall designate, that he is without and unable to obtain the means to pay for baths, and any person desiring to bathe at the free bathhouse on the Hot Springs National Park making a false oath as to his financial condition shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $300 and be imprisoned for not more than sixty days.

*([Mar. 2, 1911, ch. 200](/us/act/1911-03-02/ch200), [36 Stat. 1015](/us/stat/36/1015); [Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 161, § 1](/us/act/1921-03-04/ch161/s1), [41 Stat. 1407](/us/stat/41/1407); [June 26, 1936, ch. 843](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch843), [49 Stat. 1979](/us/stat/49/1979).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1936—Act June 26, 1936, increased fine from not more than $25 to not less than $25 nor more than $300 and maximum prison term from not more than 30 days to not more than 60 days.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Hot Springs National Park” substituted in text for “Hot Springs Reservation” pursuant to act Mar. 4, 1921.
