---
title: "§ 7113. Evidentiary record before the Board of Veterans’ Appeals"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7113"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7113"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–55, § 2(w)(1)](/us/pl/115/55/s2/w/1), Aug. 23, 2017, [131 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/131/1114).)"
---
# § 7113. Evidentiary record before the Board of Veterans’ Appeals

##### § 7113. Evidentiary record before the Board of Veterans’ Appeals

(a) Cases With No Request for a Hearing or Additional Evidence.— For cases in which a hearing before the Board of Veterans’ Appeals is not requested in the notice of disagreement and no request was made to submit evidence, the evidentiary record before the Board shall be limited to the evidence of record at the time of the decision of the agency of original jurisdiction on appeal.

(b) Cases With a Request for a Hearing.—

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), for cases in which a hearing is requested in the notice of disagreement, the evidentiary record before the Board shall be limited to the evidence of record at the time of the decision of the agency of original jurisdiction on appeal.

(2) The evidentiary record before the Board for cases described in paragraph (1) shall include each of the following, which the Board shall consider in the first instance:

(A) Evidence submitted by the appellant and his or her representative, if any, at the Board hearing.

(B) Evidence submitted by the appellant and his or her representative, if any, within 90 days following the Board hearing.

(c) Cases With No Request for a Hearing and With a Request for Additional Evidence.—

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), for cases in which a hearing is not requested in the notice of disagreement but an opportunity to submit evidence is requested, the evidentiary record before the Board shall be limited to the evidence considered by the agency of original jurisdiction in the decision on appeal.

(2) The evidentiary record before the Board for cases described in paragraph (1) shall include each of the following, which the Board shall consider in the first instance:

(A) Evidence submitted by the appellant and his or her representative, if any, with the notice of disagreement.

(B) Evidence submitted by the appellant and his or her representative, if any, within 90 days following receipt of the notice of disagreement.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–55, § 2(w)(1)](/us/pl/115/55/s2/w/1), Aug. 23, 2017, [131 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/131/1114).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to all claims for which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides notice of a decision under [section 5104 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5104) on or after the later of 540 days after Aug. 23, 2017, or 30 days after the date on which the Secretary submits to Congress a certification of certain capabilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs to carry out the new appeals system established by [Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55) and to address appeals of decisions on legacy claims, with provision for early applicability of the new appeals system to certain claims, see [section 2(x) of Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55/s2/x), set out as an Effective Date of 2017 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s101), and bracketed note thereunder.
