---
title: "§ 15854. Sugar Cane Ethanol Program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15854"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15854"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 208](/us/pl/109/58/tII/s208), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 656](/us/stat/119/656).)"
---
# § 15854. Sugar Cane Ethanol Program

##### § 15854. Sugar Cane Ethanol Program

(a) Definition of program In this section, the term “program” means the Sugar Cane Ethanol Program established by subsection (b).

(b) Establishment There is established within the Environmental Protection Agency a program to be known as the “Sugar Cane Ethanol Program”.

(c) Project

(1) In general Subject to the availability of appropriations under subsection (d), in carrying out the program, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall establish a project that is—

(A) carried out in multiple States—

(i) in each of which is produced cane sugar that is eligible for loans under [section 7272 of title 7](/us/usc/t7/s7272), or a similar subsequent authority; and

(ii) at the option of each such State, that have an incentive program that requires the use of ethanol in the State; and

(B) designed to study the production of ethanol from cane sugar, sugarcane, and sugarcane byproducts.

(2) Requirements A project described in paragraph (1) shall—

(A) be limited to sugar producers and the production of ethanol in the States of Florida, Louisiana, Texas, and Hawaii, divided equally among the States, to demonstrate that the process may be applicable to cane sugar, sugarcane, and sugarcane byproducts;

(B) include information on the ways in which the scale of production may be replicated once the sugar cane industry has located sites for, and constructed, ethanol production facilities; and

(C) not last more than 3 years.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $36,000,000, to remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 208](/us/pl/109/58/tII/s208), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 656](/us/stat/119/656).)*
