---
title: "§ 4042. Private right of action"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4042"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4042"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title VIII, § 802, as added [Pub. L. 111–275, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/111/275/tIII/s303/a), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2877](/us/stat/124/2877); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 547(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s547/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1378](/us/stat/133/1378).)"
---
# § 4042. Private right of action

##### § 4042. Private right of action

(a) In general Any person aggrieved by a violation of this chapter may in a civil action—

(1) obtain any appropriate equitable or declaratory relief with respect to the violation;

(2) recover all other appropriate relief, including monetary damages; and

(3) be a representative party on behalf of members of a class or be a member of a class, in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, notwithstanding any previous agreement to the contrary.

(b) Costs and attorney fees The court may award to a person aggrieved by a violation of this chapter who prevails in an action brought under subsection (a) the costs of the action, including a reasonable attorney fee.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title VIII, § 802, as added [Pub. L. 111–275, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/111/275/tIII/s303/a), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2877](/us/stat/124/2877); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 547(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s547/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1378](/us/stat/133/1378).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 597a of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 547(b)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s547/b), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1378](/us/stat/133/1378), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall not be construed to imply that a person aggrieved by a violation of such Act [the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act ([50 U.S.C. 3901](/us/usc/t50/s3901) et seq.)] did not have a right to bring a civil action as a representative party on behalf of members of a class or be a member of a class in a civil action before the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 20, 2019].”
