---
title: "§ 6235. Identification in budget materials of amounts for declassification activities and limitation on expenditures for such activities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6235"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6235"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/139/1411).)"
---
# § 6235. Identification in budget materials of amounts for declassification activities and limitation on expenditures for such activities

##### § 6235. Identification in budget materials of amounts for declassification activities and limitation on expenditures for such activities

(a) Amounts for Declassification of Records.— The Secretary of Energy shall include in the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the Department of Energy budget for any fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the President under [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a)) specific identification, as a budgetary line item, of the amounts required to carry out programmed activities during that fiscal year to declassify records pursuant to Executive Order No. 13526 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note), or any successor Executive order, or to comply with any statutory requirement to declassify Government records.

(b) Certification Required With Respect to Automatic Declassification of Records.— No records of the Department of Energy that have not as of October 5, 1999, been reviewed for declassification shall be subject to automatic declassification unless the Secretary of Energy certifies to Congress that such declassification would not harm the national security.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/139/1411).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2675 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2675), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
