---
title: "§ 8451b. Director of admissions"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8451b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8451b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title V, § 558(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tV/s558/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 879](/us/stat/139/879).)"
---
# § 8451b. Director of admissions

##### § 8451b. Director of admissions

(a) Establishment and Appointment.— There is a director of admissions of the Naval Academy. The director of admissions shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall perform such duties as the Superintendent of the Naval Academy may prescribe with the approval of the Secretary of the Navy.

(b) Grade.—

(1) Subject to paragraph (2), a person appointed as director of admissions of the Naval Academy has the regular grade of commander in the Navy or lieutenant colonel in the Marine Corps.

(2) A person serving as director of admissions shall have the regular grade of captain in the Navy or colonel in the Marine Corps upon the earlier of—

(A) the date on which such person completes six years of service as the director of admissions; and

(B) the date on which such person would have been promoted had the person been selected for promotion from among officers in the promotion zone.

(c) Detail.— The President may detail any officer of the Navy or the Marine Corps in a grade above lieutenant or captain, respectively, to perform the duties of director of admissions without appointing the officer as director of admissions. Such a detail does not affect the position of the officer on the active-duty list.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title V, § 558(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tV/s558/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 879](/us/stat/139/879).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Continuation of Service of Current Director of Admissions

[Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title V, § 558(b)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tV/s558/b), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 879](/us/stat/139/879), provided that: “Notwithstanding subsection (a) of [section 8451b of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s8451b), United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, the person serving as the director of admissions of the Naval Academy on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 18, 2025]— “(1) may serve as the director of admissions of the Naval Academy until the date on which—“(A) a director of admissions is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, in accordance with subsection (a) of such section 8451b; or “(B) the President details an officer to perform the duties of the director of admissions in accordance with subsection (c) of such section 8451b; and “(2) has the regular grade described in subsection (b) of such section 8451b.”
