---
title: "§ 7274l–1. Vesting title in property interests related to energy development, demonstration, and deployment programs funded under Department of Energy appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7274l–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7274l–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. D, title III, § 309](/us/pl/117/328/dD/tIII/s309), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4645](/us/stat/136/4645).)"
---
# § 7274l–1. Vesting title in property interests related to energy development, demonstration, and deployment programs funded under Department of Energy appropriations

##### § 7274l–1. Vesting title in property interests related to energy development, demonstration, and deployment programs funded under Department of Energy appropriations

(a) Hereafter, for energy development, demonstration, and deployment programs funded under Department of Energy appropriations (other than those for the National Nuclear Security Administration and Office of Environmental Management) provided for fiscal year 2022, the current fiscal year, or any fiscal year thereafter (including by Acts other than appropriations Acts), the Secretary may vest unconditional title or other property interests acquired under projects in an award recipient, subrecipient, or successor in interest, including the United States, at the conclusion of the award period for projects receiving an initial award in fiscal year 2022 or later.

(b) Upon vesting unconditional title pursuant to subsection (a) in an award recipient, subrecipient, or successor in interest other than the United States, the United States shall have no liabilities or obligations to the property.

(c) For purposes of this section, the term “property interest” does not include any interest in intellectual property developed using funding provided under a project.

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. D, title III, § 309](/us/pl/117/328/dD/tIII/s309), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4645](/us/stat/136/4645).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2023, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
