---
title: "§ 1423g. Application with other subchapters of chapter"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1423g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1423g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–522, title V, § 508](/us/pl/92/522/tV/s508), as added [Pub. L. 109–479, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/109/479/tIX/s902/a), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3664](/us/stat/120/3664).)"
---
# § 1423g. Application with other subchapters of chapter

##### § 1423g. Application with other subchapters of chapter

(a) In general The authority of the Secretary under this subchapter is in addition to, and shall not affect—

(1) the authority of the Secretary under other subchapters 11 See References in Text note below. of this chapter or the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 ([16 U.S.C. 3371](/us/usc/t16/s3371) et seq.) or the exemption for Alaskan natives under [section 1371(b) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1371/b) as applied to other marine mammal populations; or

(2) the authorities provided under subchapter III of this chapter.

(b) Certain provisions inapplicable The provisions of subchapters II through V of this chapter do not apply with respect to the implementation or administration of this subchapter, except as specified in [section 1423b of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1423b).

*([Pub. L. 92–522, title V, § 508](/us/pl/92/522/tV/s508), as added [Pub. L. 109–479, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/109/479/tIX/s902/a), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3664](/us/stat/120/3664).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Other subchapters of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), was in the original a reference to “other titles of this Act” meaning [Pub. L. 92–522](/us/pl/92/522). Subchapter I of this chapter consists of sections of [Pub. L. 92–522](/us/pl/92/522) that are not part of a title of that Act.

The Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is [Pub. L. 97–79](/us/pl/97/79), Nov. 16, 1981, [95 Stat. 1073](/us/stat/95/1073), which enacted chapter 53 (§ 3371 et seq.) of this title, amended [section 1540 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1540) and [section 42 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s42), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, repealed sections 667e and 851 to 856 of this title and sections 43, 44, 3054, and 3112 of Title 18, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1540 and 3371 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3371 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3371) and Tables.
