---
title: "§ 2001. Purpose"
identifier: "USC-T38-S2001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section2001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–95, § 5(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/95/s5/a/1), Dec. 21, 2001, [115 Stat. 905](/us/stat/115/905).)"
---
# § 2001. Purpose

##### § 2001. Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the special needs of homeless veterans.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–95, § 5(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/95/s5/a/1), Dec. 21, 2001, [115 Stat. 905](/us/stat/115/905).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2001 was renumbered [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4101).

Another prior section 2001, [Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1217](/us/stat/72/1217), related to compensation for veterans under agreements with States, prior to repeal by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 87–675](/us/pl/87/675/s1/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Annual Reports

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCI, § 9103(c)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCI/s9103/c), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4781](/us/stat/134/4781), provided that: “(1) In general.—Not less frequently than once each year, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the homelessness services provided under programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including services under HUD–VASH program under section 8*(o)*(19) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 ([42 U.S.C. 1437f](/us/usc/t42/s1437f)*(o)*(19)). “(2) Included information.—Each such annual report shall include, with respect to the year preceding the submittal of the report, a statement of the number of eligible individuals who were furnished such homelessness services and the number of individuals furnished such services under each such program, disaggregated by the number of men who received such services and the number of women who received such services, and such other information as the Secretary considers appropriate.”

#### National Goal To End Homelessness Among Veterans

[Pub. L. 109–461, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/109/461/tVII/s701), Dec. 22, 2006, [120 Stat. 3439](/us/stat/120/3439), provided that: “(a) Reaffirmation.—Congress reaffirms the national goal to end chronic homelessness among veterans within a decade of the enactment of the Homeless Veterans Comprehensive Assistance Act of 2001 ([Public Law 107–95](/us/pl/107/95); [115 Stat. 903](/us/stat/115/903)) [Dec. 21, 2001]. “(b) Reaffirmation of Encouragement of Cooperative Efforts.—Congress reaffirms its encouragement, as specified in the Homeless Veterans Comprehensive Assistance Act of 2001 ([Public Law 107–95](/us/pl/107/95); [115 Stat. 903](/us/stat/115/903)), that all departments and agencies of the Federal, State, and local governments, quasi-governmental organizations, private and public sector entities, including community-based organizations, faith-based organizations, and individuals, work cooperatively to end chronic homelessness among veterans.”

[Pub. L. 107–95, § 3](/us/pl/107/95/s3), Dec. 21, 2001, [115 Stat. 903](/us/stat/115/903), provided that: “(a) National Goal.—Congress hereby declares it to be a national goal to end chronic homelessness among veterans within a decade of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 21, 2001]. “(b) Cooperative Efforts Encouraged.—Congress hereby encourages all departments and agencies of Federal, State, and local governments, quasi-governmental organizations, private and public sector entities, including community-based organizations, faith-based organizations, and individuals to work cooperatively to end chronic homelessness among veterans within a decade.”

#### Sense of the Congress Regarding the Needs of Homeless Veterans and the Responsibility of Federal Agencies

[Pub. L. 107–95, § 4](/us/pl/107/95/s4), Dec. 21, 2001, [115 Stat. 904](/us/stat/115/904), provided that: “It is the sense of the Congress that— “(1) homelessness is a significant problem in the veterans community and veterans are disproportionately represented among homeless men; “(2) while many effective programs assist homeless veterans to again become productive and self-sufficient members of society, current resources provided to such programs and other activities that assist homeless veterans are inadequate to provide all needed essential services, assistance, and support to homeless veterans; “(3) the most effective programs for the assistance of homeless veterans should be identified and expanded; “(4) federally funded programs for homeless veterans should be held accountable for achieving clearly defined results; “(5) Federal efforts to assist homeless veterans should include prevention of homelessness; and “(6) Federal agencies, particularly the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the Department of Labor, should cooperate more fully to address the problem of homelessness among veterans.”

#### Evaluation Centers for Homeless Veterans Programs

[Pub. L. 107–95, § 6(a)](/us/pl/107/95/s6/a), Dec. 21, 2001, [115 Stat. 919](/us/stat/115/919), provided that: “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall support the continuation within the Department of Veterans Affairs of at least one center for evaluation to monitor the structure, process, and outcome of programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs that address homeless veterans.”

#### Definitions in [Pub. L. 107–95](/us/pl/107/95)

[Pub. L. 107–95, § 2](/us/pl/107/95/s2), Dec. 21, 2001, [115 Stat. 903](/us/stat/115/903), provided that: “For purposes of this Act [see Short Title of 2001 Amendments note set out under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s101)]: “(1) The term ‘homeless veteran’ has the meaning given such term in [section 2002 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s2002), United States Code, as added by section 5(a)(1). “(2) The term ‘grant and per diem provider’ means an entity in receipt of a grant under section 2011 or 2012 of title 38, United States Code, as so added.”
