---
title: "§ 426–1. Coastal Engineering Research Center; establishment; powers and functions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S426–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section426–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–172, § 1](/us/pl/88/172/s1), Nov. 7, 1963, [77 Stat. 304](/us/stat/77/304).)"
---
# § 426–1. Coastal Engineering Research Center; establishment; powers and functions

##### § 426–1. Coastal Engineering Research Center; establishment; powers and functions

There shall be established under the Chief of Engineers, United States Army, a Coastal Engineering Research Center which, except as hereinafter provided in [section 426–3 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s426–3), shall be vested with all the functions of the Beach Erosion Board, including the authority to make general investigations as provided in [section 426a of this title](/us/usc/t33/s426a), and such additional functions as the Chief of Engineers may assign.

*([Pub. L. 88–172, § 1](/us/pl/88/172/s1), Nov. 7, 1963, [77 Stat. 304](/us/stat/77/304).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of [section 1 of Pub. L. 88–172](/us/pl/88/172/s1). The remainder of said section 1, abolishing the Beach Erosion Board, is classified as a note under [section 426 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s426).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Beach Erosion Board

[Section 1 of Pub. L. 88–172](/us/pl/88/172/s1) abolished Beach Erosion Board, and is set out as a note under [section 426 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s426). For the transfer of certain functions of said Board to Board of Engineers for Rivers and Harbors, see [section 426–3 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s426–3). For termination of Board of Engineers for Rivers and Harbors 180 days after Oct. 31, 1992, and reassignment of duties and responsibilities by Secretary of Army, see [section 223 of Pub. L. 102–580](/us/pl/102/580/s223), set out as a note under [section 541 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s541).
