---
title: "§ 1347. Appropriations or authorizations required for agencies in existence for more than one year"
identifier: "USC-T31-S1347"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section1347"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 925](/us/stat/96/925).)"
---
# § 1347. Appropriations or authorizations required for agencies in existence for more than one year

##### § 1347. Appropriations or authorizations required for agencies in existence for more than one year

(a) An agency in existence for more than one year may not use amounts otherwise available for obligation to pay its expenses without a specific appropriation or specific authorization by law. If the principal duties and powers of the agency are substantially the same as or similar to the duties and powers of an agency established by executive order, the agency established later is deemed to have been in existence from the date the agency established by the order came into existence.

(b) Except as specifically authorized by law, another agency may not use amounts available for obligation to pay expenses to carry out duties and powers substantially the same as or similar to the principal duties and powers of an agency that is prohibited from using amounts under this section.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 925](/us/stat/96/925).)*

In the section, the word “agency” is substituted for “agency or instrumentality” because of section 101 of the revised title and for consistency. The words “amounts otherwise available for obligation” are substituted for “any appropriation or fund made available by this or any other Act”, and the words “duties and powers” are substituted for “functions”, for consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (a), the words “After January 1, 1945” are omitted as executed. The words “including those established by Executive order” are omitted the first time they appear as surplus. The words “from the date . . . came into existence” are substituted for “during the existence” for clarity.

In subsection (b), the word “amounts” is substituted for “appropriations” for consistency in the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1347(a) | 31:696(1st, 2d sentences). | June 27, 1944, ch. 286, § 213, 58 Stat. 387. |
| 1347(b) | 31:696(last sentence). |  |
