---
title: "§ 308501. National women’s rights history project national registry"
identifier: "USC-T54-S308501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section308501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3236](/us/stat/128/3236).)"
---
# § 308501. National women’s rights history project national registry

##### § 308501. National women’s rights history project national registry

(a) In General.— The Secretary may make annual grants to State historic preservation offices for not more than 5 years to assist the State historic preservation offices in surveying, evaluating, and nominating to the National Register of Historic Places women’s rights history properties.

(b) Eligibility.— In making grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to grants relating to properties associated with the multiple facets of the women’s rights movement, such as politics, economics, education, religion, and social and family rights.

(c) Updates.— The Secretary shall ensure that the National Register travel itinerary website entitled “Places Where Women Made History” is updated to contain—

(1) the results of the inventory conducted under subsection (a); and

(2) any links to websites related to places on the inventory.

(d) Cost-Sharing Requirement.— The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made available under this section shall be 50 percent.

(e) Authorization of Appropriations.— There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2012 and 2013.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3236](/us/stat/128/3236).)*

In subsection (e), reference to fiscal years 2009 to 2011 is omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 308501 | 16 U.S.C. 469m(b). | Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, subtitle B, § 7111(b), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1200. |
