---
title: "§ 6981. Establishment of technical assistance and rule of law programs"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6981"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6981"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title V, § 511](/us/pl/106/286/dB/tV/s511), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 905](/us/stat/114/905).)"
---
# § 6981. Establishment of technical assistance and rule of law programs

##### § 6981. Establishment of technical assistance and rule of law programs

(a) Commerce rule of law program The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to establish a program to conduct rule of law training and technical assistance related to commercial activities in the People’s Republic of China.

(b) Labor rule of law program

(1) In general The Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to establish a program to conduct rule of law training and technical assistance related to the protection of internationally recognized worker rights in the People’s Republic of China.

(2) Use of amounts In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary of Labor shall focus on activities including, but not limited to—

(A) developing,11 So in original. Comma probably should not appear. laws, regulations, and other measures to implement internationally recognized worker rights;

(B) establishing national mechanisms for the enforcement of national labor laws and regulations;

(C) training government officials concerned with implementation and enforcement of national labor laws and regulations; and

(D) developing an educational infrastructure to educate workers about their legal rights and protections under national labor laws and regulations.

(3) Limitation The Secretary of Labor may not provide assistance under the program established under this subsection to the All-China Federation of Trade Unions.

(c) Legal system and civil society rule of law program The Secretary of State is authorized to establish a program to conduct rule of law training and technical assistance related to development of the legal system and civil society generally in the People’s Republic of China.

(d) Conduct of programs The programs authorized by this section may be used to conduct activities such as seminars and workshops, drafting of commercial and labor codes, legal training, publications, financing the operating costs for nongovernmental organizations working in this area, and funding the travel of individuals to the United States and to the People’s Republic of China to provide and receive training.

*([Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title V, § 511](/us/pl/106/286/dB/tV/s511), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 905](/us/stat/114/905).)*
