---
title: "§ 7752. Buildings, land, people, claims, and agreements"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7752"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7752"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–224, title IV, § 432](/us/pl/106/224/tIV/s432), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 452](/us/stat/114/452).)"
---
# § 7752. Buildings, land, people, claims, and agreements

##### § 7752. Buildings, land, people, claims, and agreements

(a) In general To the extent necessary to carry out this chapter, the Secretary may acquire and maintain all real or personal property for special purposes and employ any persons, make grants, and enter into any contracts, cooperative agreements, memoranda of understanding, or other agreements.

(b) Tort claims

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary may pay tort claims in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of [section 2672 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2672), when the claims arise outside the United States in connection with activities that are authorized under this chapter.

(2) Requirements of claim A claim may not be allowed under this subsection unless the claim is presented in writing to the Secretary within 2 years after the date on which the claim accrues.

*([Pub. L. 106–224, title IV, § 432](/us/pl/106/224/tIV/s432), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 452](/us/stat/114/452).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), was in the original “this title”, meaning title IV of [Pub. L. 106–224](/us/pl/106/224), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 438](/us/stat/114/438), known as the Plant Protection Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7701) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to agricultural import and entry inspection activities under this chapter to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 231, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
