---
title: "§ 10592. Use of grant funds"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10592"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10592"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2922](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2922), as added [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 113](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s113), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 675](/us/stat/122/675).)"
---
# § 10592. Use of grant funds

##### § 10592. Use of grant funds

(1) the development, implementation, and expansion of prison-based family treatment programs in correctional facilities for incarcerated parents with minor children (except for any such parent who there is reasonable evidence to believe engaged in domestic violence or child abuse);

(2) the development, implementation, and expansion of residential substance abuse treatment;

(3) coordination between appropriate correctional facility representatives and the appropriate governmental agencies;

(4) payments to public and nonprofit private entities to provide substance abuse treatment to nonviolent parent drug offenders participating in that program; and

(5) salaries, personnel costs, facility costs, and other costs directly related to the operation of that program.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2922](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2922), as added [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 113](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s113), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 675](/us/stat/122/675).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797s–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797s–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction of 2008 Amendment

For construction of amendments by [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) and requirements for grants made under such amendments, see [section 60504 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s60504).
