---
title: "§ 14306. Reciprocity for foreign vessels"
identifier: "USC-T46-S14306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section14306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(3)](/us/pl/99/509/tV/s5101/3), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1922](/us/stat/100/1922).)"
---
# § 14306. Reciprocity for foreign vessels

##### § 14306. Reciprocity for foreign vessels

(a) When the Secretary finds that the laws and regulations of a foreign country related to measurement of vessels are similar to those of this chapter and the regulations prescribed under this chapter, or when a foreign country is a party to the Convention, the Secretary shall accept the measurement and certificate of a vessel of that foreign country as complying with this chapter and the regulations prescribed under this chapter.

(b) Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to a vessel of a foreign country that does not recognize measurements under this chapter. The Secretary may apply measurement standards the Secretary considers appropriate to the vessel, subject to applicable international agreements to which the United States Government is a party.

*([Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(3)](/us/pl/99/509/tV/s5101/3), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1922](/us/stat/100/1922).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

*Revised section 14306*

Source: International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships. Section (U.S. Code) 46 App. U.S.C. 81.

Section 14306(a) requires that the Secretary accept the measurement and certificate of a vessel of a foreign country as evidence of compliance with this chapter when the Secretary finds that the laws and regulations of that foreign country that are related to measurement are similar to those of this chapter, or that that country is a party to the Convention.

Section 14306(b) provides that the Secretary does not have to accept the measurement and certificate of a vessel of a country that does not recognize United States measurements. It also authorizes the Secretary to apply appropriate measurement standards to such foreign vessels, subject to international agreements to which the United States is a party.
