---
title: "§ 3154f. Congressional notification requirements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3154f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3154f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 220](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s220), as added [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2222](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2222), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3187](/us/stat/138/3187).)"
---
# § 3154f. Congressional notification requirements

##### § 3154f. Congressional notification requirements

(a) In general In the case of a project described in subsection (b), the Secretary shall provide to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives notice, in accordance with subsection (c), of the award of a grant for the project not less than 3 business days before notifying an eligible recipient of their selection for that award.

(b) Projects described A project referred to in subsection (a) is a project that the Secretary has selected to receive a grant administered by the Economic Development Administration in an amount not less than $100,000.

(c) Requirements A notification under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) the name of the project;

(2) the name of the applicant;

(3) the region in which the project is to be carried out;

(4) the State in which the project is to be carried out;

(5) the 1 or more counties or political subdivisions in which the project is to be carried out;

(6) the number of jobs expected to be created or retained as a result of the project;

(7) the estimated date of completion of the project;

(8) the amount of the grant awarded;

(9) a description of the project; and

(10) any additional information, as determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.

(d) Public availability The Secretary shall make a notification under subsection (a) publicly available not later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary provides the notice.

*([Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 220](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s220), as added [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2222](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2222), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3187](/us/stat/138/3187).)*
