---
title: "§ 3912. Jurisdiction and applicability of chapter"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3912"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3912"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title I, § 102, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2837](/us/stat/117/2837).)"
---
# § 3912. Jurisdiction and applicability of chapter

##### § 3912. Jurisdiction and applicability of chapter

(a) Jurisdiction This chapter applies to—

(1) the United States;

(2) each of the States, including the political subdivisions thereof; and

(3) all territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(b) Applicability to proceedings This chapter applies to any judicial or administrative proceeding commenced in any court or agency in any jurisdiction subject to this chapter. This chapter does not apply to criminal proceedings.

(c) Court in which application may be made When under this chapter any application is required to be made to a court in which no proceeding has already been commenced with respect to the matter, such application may be made to any court which would otherwise have jurisdiction over the matter.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title I, § 102, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2837](/us/stat/117/2837).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 512 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 102 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. I, [54 Stat. 1179](/us/stat/54/1179); [Pub. L. 102–12, § 9(2)](/us/pl/102/12/s9/2), Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 39](/us/stat/105/39), related to territorial application, jurisdiction of courts, and form of procedure, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
