---
title: "§ 8902. Comprehensive ten-year program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8902"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8902"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–294, title VII, § 703](/us/pl/96/294/tVII/s703), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 771](/us/stat/94/771).)"
---
# § 8902. Comprehensive ten-year program

##### § 8902. Comprehensive ten-year program

(a) Implementation by Acid Precipitation Task Force; membership, etc., of Task Force There is hereby established a comprehensive ten-year program to carry out the provisions of this subchapter; and to implement this program there shall be formed an Acid Precipitation Task Force (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Task Force”), of which the Secretary of Agriculture, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall be joint chairmen. The remaining membership of the Task Force shall consist of—

(1) one representative each from the Department of the Interior, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Energy, the Department of State, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Council on Environmental Quality, the National Science Foundation, and the Tennessee Valley Authority;

(2) the director of the Argonne National Laboratory, the director of the Brookhaven National Laboratory, the director of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and the director of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory; and

(3) four additional members to be appointed by the President.

(b) Research management consortium; membership, responsibilities, etc. The four National Laboratories (referred to in subsection (a)(2)) shall constitute a research management consortium having the responsibilities described in [section 8903(b)(13) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8903/b/13) as well as the general responsibilities required by their representation on the Task Force. In carrying out these responsibilities the consortium shall report to, and act pursuant to direction from, the joint chairmen of the Task Force.

(c) Director of research program The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall serve as the director of the research program established by this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 96–294, title VII, § 703](/us/pl/96/294/tVII/s703), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 771](/us/stat/94/771).)*
