---
title: "§ 3321. National Intelligence Reserve Corps"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1053](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1053), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3683](/us/stat/118/3683).)"
---
# § 3321. National Intelligence Reserve Corps

##### § 3321. National Intelligence Reserve Corps

(a) Establishment The Director of National Intelligence may provide for the establishment and training of a National Intelligence Reserve Corps (in this section referred to as “National Intelligence Reserve Corps”) for the temporary reemployment on a voluntary basis of former employees of elements of the intelligence community during periods of emergency, as determined by the Director.

(b) Eligible individuals An individual may participate in the National Intelligence Reserve Corps only if the individual previously served as a full time employee of an element of the intelligence community.

(c) Terms of participation The Director of National Intelligence shall prescribe the terms and conditions under which eligible individuals may participate in the National Intelligence Reserve Corps.

(d) Expenses The Director of National Intelligence may provide members of the National Intelligence Reserve Corps transportation and per diem in lieu of subsistence for purposes of participating in any training that relates to service as a member of the Reserve Corps.

(e) Treatment of annuitants

(1) If an annuitant receiving an annuity from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund becomes temporarily reemployed pursuant to this section, such annuity shall not be discontinued thereby.

(2) An annuitant so reemployed shall not be considered an employee for the purposes of chapter 83 or 84 of title 5.

(f) Treatment under Office of Director of National Intelligence personnel ceiling A member of the National Intelligence Reserve Corps who is reemployed on a temporary basis pursuant to this section shall not count against any personnel ceiling applicable to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

*([Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1053](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1053), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3683](/us/stat/118/3683).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403–1c of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403–1c) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For Determination by President that section take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Section effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
