---
title: "§ 1751. Delegate to House of Representatives from Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1751"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1751"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–229, title VII, § 711](/us/pl/110/229/tVII/s711), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 868](/us/stat/122/868).)"
---
# § 1751. Delegate to House of Representatives from Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands

##### § 1751. Delegate to House of Representatives from Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands

The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be represented in the United States Congress by the Resident Representative to the United States authorized by section 901 of the Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of America (approved by [Public Law 94–241](/us/pl/94/241) ([48 U.S.C. 1801](/us/usc/t48/s1801) et seq.)). The Resident Representative shall be a nonvoting Delegate to the House of Representatives, elected as provided in this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 110–229, title VII, § 711](/us/pl/110/229/tVII/s711), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 868](/us/stat/122/868).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 901 of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, referred to in text, is contained in [section 1 of Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241/s1), set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1801).

[Public Law 94–241](/us/pl/94/241), referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241), Mar. 24, 1976, [90 Stat. 263](/us/stat/90/263), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1801 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle B (§§ 711–718) of title VII of [Pub. L. 110–229](/us/pl/110/229), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 868](/us/stat/122/868), which enacted this subchapter and amended sections 4342, 6954 and 9432 of Title 10, Armed Forces. For complete classification of subtitle B to the Code, see Tables.
