---
title: "§ 46106. Enforcement by the Department of Transportation"
identifier: "USC-T49-S46106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section46106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/108/1229); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 140(b)(1)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s140/b/1), (7), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 641](/us/stat/115/641); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(f)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/f/1), (3), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3642](/us/stat/132/3642).)"
---
# § 46106. Enforcement by the Department of Transportation

##### § 46106. Enforcement by the Department of Transportation

The Secretary of Transportation (or the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration or the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to aviation safety duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration) may bring a civil action against a person in a district court of the United States to enforce this part or a requirement or regulation prescribed, or an order or any term of a certificate or permit issued, under this part. The action may be brought in the judicial district in which the person does business or the violation occurred.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/108/1229); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 140(b)(1)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s140/b/1), (7), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 641](/us/stat/115/641); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(f)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/f/1), (3), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3642](/us/stat/132/3642).)*

The words “their duly authorized agents” are omitted as surplus. The words “may bring a civil action” are substituted for “may apply” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code and rule 2 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 App. U.S.C.). The word “prescribed” is added for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code. The words “condition, or limitation” are omitted as being included in “term”. The text of 49 App.:1487(a) (words after semicolon related to Secretary and CAB) is omitted as surplus because of 28:1651 and rule 81(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 App. U.S.C.).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 46106 | 49 App.:1487(a) (related to Secretary and CAB). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, § 1007(a) (related to Administrator and CAB), 72 Stat. 796. |
|  | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 1601(b)(1)(E); added Oct. 4, 1984, Pub. L. 98–443, § 3(e), 98 Stat. 1704. |
|  | 49 App.:1655(c)(1). | Oct. 15, 1966, Pub. L. 89–670, § 6(c)(1), 80 Stat. 938; Jan. 12, 1983, Pub. L. 97–449, § 7(b), 96 Stat. 2444. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(f)(3)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/f/3), substituted “by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration)” for “by the Administrator)”.

[Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(f)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/f/1), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Under Secretary”.

2001—[Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(b)(7)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/b/7), substituted “Department of Transportation” for “Secretary of Transportation and Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration” in section catchline.

[Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(b)(1)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/b/1), inserted “the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Under Secretary or” after “(or”.
