---
title: "§ 127. Virginia"
identifier: "USC-T28-S127"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section127"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 893](/us/stat/62/893); [Pub. L. 90–383](/us/pl/90/383), July 5, 1968, [82 Stat. 292](/us/stat/82/292); [Pub. L. 102–200, § 1](/us/pl/102/200/s1), Dec. 10, 1991, [105 Stat. 1630](/us/stat/105/1630).)"
---
# § 127. Virginia

##### § 127. Virginia

Virginia is divided into two judicial districts, to be known as the Eastern and Western districts of Virginia.

Eastern District

(a) The Eastern District comprises the counties of Accomac, Amelia, Arlington, Brunswick, Caroline, Charles City, Chesterfield, Dinwiddie, Elizabeth City, Essex, Fairfax, Fauquier, Gloucester, Goochland, Greensville, Hanover, Henrico, Isle of Wight, James City, King and Queen, King George, King William, Lancaster, Loudoun, Lunenburg, Mathews, Mecklenburg, Middlesex, Nansemond, New Kent, Norfolk, Northampton, Northumberland, Nottoway, Powhatan, Prince Edward, Prince George, Prince William, Princess Anne, Richmond, Southampton, Spotsylvania, Stafford, Surry, Sussex, Warwick, Westmoreland, and York.

Court for the Eastern District shall be held at Alexandria, Newport News, Norfolk, and Richmond.

Western District

(b) The Western District comprises the counties of Albemarle, Alleghany, Amherst, Appomattox, Augusta, Bath, Bedford, Bland, Botetourt, Buchanan, Buckingham, Campbell, Carroll, Charlotte, Clarke, Craig, Culpeper, Cumberland, Dickenson, Floyd, Fluvanna, Franklin, Frederick, Giles, Grayson, Greene, Halifax, Henry, Highland, Lee, Louisa, Madison, Montgomery, Nelson, Orange, Page, Patrick, Pittsylvania, Pulaski, Rappahannock, Roanoke, Rockbridge, Rockingham, Russell, Scott, Shenandoah, Smyth, Tazewell, Warren, Washington, Wise, and Wythe.

Court for the Western District shall be held at Abingdon, Big Stone Gap, Charlottesville, Danville, Harrisonburg, Lynchburg, and Roanoke.

(c) Cities and incorporated towns are included in that district in which are included the counties within the exterior boundaries of which such cities and incorporated towns are geographically located or out of the territory of which they have been incorporated.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 893](/us/stat/62/893); [Pub. L. 90–383](/us/pl/90/383), July 5, 1968, [82 Stat. 292](/us/stat/82/292); [Pub. L. 102–200, § 1](/us/pl/102/200/s1), Dec. 10, 1991, [105 Stat. 1630](/us/stat/105/1630).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., §§ 192 and 192a, and [section 403c–2 of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s403c–2), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Conservation ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 111](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s111), [36 Stat. 1127](/us/stat/36/1127); [June 13, 1918, ch. 100](/us/act/1918-06-13/ch100), [40 Stat. 605](/us/stat/40/605); [Apr. 30, 1924, ch. 144](/us/act/1924-04-30/ch144), [43 Stat. 114](/us/stat/43/114); [Feb. 21, 1925, ch. 290](/us/act/1925-02-21/ch290), [43 Stat. 962](/us/stat/43/962); [Jan. 20, 1930, ch. 20, § 1](/us/act/1930-01-20/ch20/s1), [46 Stat. 56](/us/stat/46/56); [Aug. 19, 1937, ch. 703, § 2](/us/act/1937-08-19/ch703/s2), [50 Stat. 701](/us/stat/50/701); [June 13, 1938, ch. 350](/us/act/1938-06-13/ch350), [52 Stat. 674](/us/stat/52/674); [Oct. 31, 1945, ch. 443, § 202](/us/act/1945-10-31/ch443/s202), [59 Stat. 554](/us/stat/59/554)).

A provision of [section 192 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s192) relating to the maintenance of offices by the clerk of the western district was omitted as covered by sections 452 and 751 of this title.

Changes in arrangement and phraseology were made.

#### Senate Revision Amendment

By Senate amendment, “Newport News” was inserted after “Alexandria” in second paragraph of subsection (a) of this section. See 80th Congress Senate Report No. 1559.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–200, § 1(1)](/us/pl/102/200/s1/1), struck out reference to Culpeper, Louisa, and Orange counties.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–200, § 1(2)](/us/pl/102/200/s1/2), inserted reference to Culpeper, Louisa, and Orange counties.

1968—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 90–383](/us/pl/90/383) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Applicability of 1991 Amendments

[Pub. L. 102–200, § 2](/us/pl/102/200/s2), Dec. 10, 1991, [105 Stat. 1630](/us/stat/105/1630), provided that: “(a) Pending Actions.—The amendments made by section 1 [amending this section] shall not apply to any action commenced before the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 10, 1991] and pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia on such date. “(b) Juries.—The amendments made by section 1 shall not affect the composition, or preclude the service, of any grand or petit jury summoned, empaneled, or actually serving in the Eastern or Western District of Virginia on the date of the enactment of this Act.”
