---
title: "§ 641. Prohibition of subchapter I inspection of articles not intended for use as human food; de­naturation or other identification prior to distribution in commerce; inedible articles"
identifier: "USC-T21-S641"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section641"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), title II, § 201, as added [Pub. L. 90–201, § 14](/us/pl/90/201/s14), Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 593](/us/stat/81/593).)"
---
# § 641. Prohibition of subchapter I inspection of articles not intended for use as human food; de­naturation or other identification prior to distribution in commerce; inedible articles

##### § 641. Prohibition of subchapter I inspection of articles not intended for use as human food; de­naturation or other identification prior to distribution in commerce; inedible articles

Inspection shall not be provided under subchapter I of this chapter at any establishment for the slaughter of cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules, or other equines, or the preparation of any carcasses or parts or products of such animals, which are not intended for use as human food, but such articles shall, prior to their offer for sale or transportation in commerce, unless naturally inedible by humans, be denatured or otherwise identified as prescribed by regulations of the Secretary to deter their use for human food. No person, firm, or corporation shall buy, sell, transport, or offer for sale or transportation, or receive for transportation, in commerce, or import, any carcasses, parts thereof, meat or meat food products of any such animals, which are not intended for use as human food unless they are denatured or otherwise identified as required by the regulations of the Secretary or are naturally inedible by humans.

*([Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), title II, § 201, as added [Pub. L. 90–201, § 14](/us/pl/90/201/s14), Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 593](/us/stat/81/593).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Subchapter effective Dec. 15, 1967, see [section 20 of Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201/s20), set out as a note under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s601).
