---
title: "§ 9043. Limitation on certain employee compensation"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9043"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9043"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title IV, § 4004](/us/pl/116/136/dA/tIV/s4004), Mar. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 476](/us/stat/134/476).)"
---
# § 9043. Limitation on certain employee compensation

##### § 9043. Limitation on certain employee compensation

(a) In general The Secretary may only enter into an agreement with an eligible business to make a loan or loan guarantee under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of [section 9042(b) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s9042/b) if such agreement provides that, during the period beginning on the date on which the agreement is executed and ending on the date that is 1 year after the date on which the loan or loan guarantee is no longer outstanding—

(1) no officer or employee of the eligible business whose total compensation exceeded $425,000 in calendar year 2019 (other than an employee whose compensation is determined through an existing collective bargaining agreement entered into prior to March 1, 2020)—

(A) will receive from the eligible business total compensation which exceeds, during any 12 consecutive months of such period, the total compensation received by the officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar year 2019; or

(B) will receive from the eligible business severance pay or other benefits upon termination of employment with the eligible business which exceeds twice the maximum total compensation received by the officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar year 2019; and

(2) no officer or employee of the eligible business whose total compensation exceeded $3,000,000 in calendar year 2019 may receive during any 12 consecutive months of such period total compensation in excess of the sum of—

(A) $3,000,000; and

(B) 50 percent of the excess over $3,000,000 of the total compensation received by the officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar year 2019.

(b) Total compensation defined In this section, the term “total compensation” includes salary, bonuses, awards of stock, and other financial benefits provided by an eligible business to an officer or employee of the eligible business.

*([Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title IV, § 4004](/us/pl/116/136/dA/tIV/s4004), Mar. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 476](/us/stat/134/476).)*
