---
title: "§ 3706. NSF ocean acidification activities"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3706"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3706"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12407](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12407), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/123/1441); [Pub. L. 116–271, title I, § 112](/us/pl/116/271/tI/s112), Dec. 31, 2020, [134 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/134/3344); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10647](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10647), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1680](/us/stat/136/1680).)"
---
# § 3706. NSF ocean acidification activities

##### § 3706. NSF ocean acidification activities

(a) Research activities The Director of the National Science Foundation shall continue to carry out research activities on ocean acidification and coastal acidification which shall support competitive, merit-based, peer-reviewed proposals for research, observation, and monitoring of ocean acidification and coastal acidification and their respective impacts, including—

(1) impacts on marine organisms, including species cultured for aquaculture, and marine ecosystems;

(2) impacts on ocean, coastal, and estuarine biogeochemistry;

(3) the development of methodologies and technologies to evaluate ocean acidification and coastal acidification and their respective impacts; and

(4) impacts of multiple stressors on ecosystems exhibiting hypoxia, harmful algal blooms, or sediment delivery, combined with changes in ocean chemistry; and

(5) adaptation and mitigation strategies to address socioeconomic effects of ocean acidification and coastal acidification.

(b) Consistency The research activities shall be consistent with the strategic research plan developed by the Subcommittee under [section 3704 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3704).

(c) Coordination The Director shall encourage coordination of the Foundation’s ocean acidification and coastal acidification activities with such activities of other nations and international organizations.

(d) Requirement Recipients of grants from the National Science Foundation under this chapter that collect data described under [section 3705(d) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3705/d) shall—

(1) collect data in accordance with the standards, protocols, or procedures established pursuant to [section 3705(d) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3705/d); and

(2) submit such data to the Director and the Secretary after publication, in accordance with any rules promulgated by the Director or the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12407](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12407), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/123/1441); [Pub. L. 116–271, title I, § 112](/us/pl/116/271/tI/s112), Dec. 31, 2020, [134 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/134/3344); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10647](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10647), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1680](/us/stat/136/1680).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–167, § 10647(1)](/us/pl/117/167/s10647/1), substituted “ocean acidification and coastal acidification” for “ocean acidification” wherever appearing in text.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10647(2)(A)](/us/pl/117/167/s10647/2/A), substituted “their respective impacts” for “its impacts” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10647(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/167/s10647/2/B), substituted “and their respective impacts” for “and its impacts”.

Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10647(2)(C)](/us/pl/117/167/s10647/2/C), (D), added par. (5).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10647(3)](/us/pl/117/167/s10647/3), added subsec. (d).

2020—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–271](/us/pl/116/271) amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Director of the National Science Foundation shall continue to carry out research activities on ocean acidification which shall support competitive, merit-based, peer-reviewed proposals for research and monitoring of ocean acidification and its impacts, including—

“(1) impacts on marine organisms and marine ecosystems;

“(2) impacts on ocean, coastal, and estuarine biogeochemistry; and

“(3) the development of methodologies and technologies to evaluate ocean acidification and its impacts.”
