---
title: "§ 10221. Rules, regulations, and procedures; consultations and establishment"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10221"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10221"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 801](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s801), formerly § 802, as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1201](/us/stat/93/1201); renumbered § 801 and amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609B(b)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609B/b), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2091](/us/stat/98/2091); [Pub. L. 99–570, title I, § 1552(b)(2)](/us/pl/99/570/tI/s1552/b/2), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–46](/us/stat/100/3207-46); [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(b)(2)](/us/pl/101/64"
---
# § 10221. Rules, regulations, and procedures; consultations and establishment

##### § 10221. Rules, regulations, and procedures; consultations and establishment

(a) General authorization of certain Federal agencies The Office of Justice Programs, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, the Bureau of Justice Statistics, and the National Institute of Justice are authorized, after appropriate consultation with representatives of States and units of local government, to establish such rules, regulations, and procedures as are necessary to the exercise of their functions, and as are consistent with the stated purposes of this chapter.

(b) Continuing evaluation of selected programs or projects; cost, effectiveness, impact value, and comparative considerations; annual performance report; assessment of activity effectiveness; suspension of funds for nonsubmission of report The Bureau of Justice Assistance shall, after consultation with the National Institute of Justice, the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, State and local governments, and the appropriate public and private agencies, establish such rules and regulations as are necessary to assure the continuing evaluation of selected programs or projects conducted pursuant to subchapters V, XII, XIII, XIV, and XX, in order to determine—

In conducting evaluations described in this subsection, the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall, when practical, compare the effectiveness of programs conducted by similar applicants and different applicants. The Bureau of Justice Assistance shall also require applicants under part A of subchapter V to submit an annual performance report concerning activities carried out pursuant to part A of subchapter V together with an assessment by the applicant of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the purposes of such part A and the relationships of those activities to the needs and objectives specified by the applicant in the application submitted pursuant to [section 10153 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10153). Such report shall include details identifying each applicant that used any funds to purchase any cruiser, boat, or helicopter and, with respect to such applicant, specifying both the amount of funds used by such applicant for each purchase of any cruiser, boat, or helicopter and a justification of each such purchase (and the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall submit to the Committee of the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committee of the Judiciary of the Senate, promptly after preparation of such report a written copy of the portion of such report containing the information required by this sentence). The Bureau shall suspend funding for an approved application under part A of subchapter V if an applicant fails to submit such an annual performance report.

(1) whether such programs or projects have achieved the performance goals stated in the original application, are of proven effectiveness, have a record of proven success, or offer a high probability of improving the criminal justice system;

(2) whether such programs or projects have contributed or are likely to contribute to the improvement of the criminal justice system and the reduction and prevention of crime;

(3) their cost in relation to their effectiveness in achieving stated goals;

(4) their impact on communities and participants; and

(5) their implication for related programs.

(c) Procedures for paperwork minimization and prevention of duplication and delays in award and expenditure of funds The procedures established to implement the provisions of this chapter shall minimize paperwork and prevent needless duplication and unnecessary delays in award and expenditure of funds at all levels of government.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 801](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s801), formerly § 802, as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1201](/us/stat/93/1201); renumbered § 801 and amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609B(b)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609B/b), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2091](/us/stat/98/2091); [Pub. L. 99–570, title I, § 1552(b)(2)](/us/pl/99/570/tI/s1552/b/2), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–46](/us/stat/100/3207-46); [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(b)(2)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/b/2), title VIII, § 801(c)(1), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4813](/us/stat/104/4813), 4826; [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40231(d)(1)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40231/d/1), title XXXIII, § 330001(h)(7), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1934](/us/stat/108/1934), 2139; [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(c)(2)(D)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/c/2/D), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3102](/us/stat/119/3102).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3782 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3782), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

Another [section 801 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s801), title III, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 211](/us/stat/82/211), is set out as a note under [section 2510 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2510), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 801 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s801) was classified to [section 3781 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3781), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to repeal by [section 609B(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609B/a).

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) substituted “the purposes of such part A” for “the purposes of [section 3751 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3751)” and “the application submitted pursuant to [section 3752 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3752). Such report shall include details identifying each applicant that used any funds to purchase any cruiser, boat, or helicopter and, with respect to such applicant, specifying both the amount of funds used by such applicant for each purchase of any cruiser, boat, or helicopter and a justification of each such purchase (and the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall submit to the Committee of the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committee of the Judiciary of the Senate, promptly after preparation of such report a written copy of the portion of such report containing the information required by this sentence)” for “the application submitted pursuant to [section 3753 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3753)” in concluding provisions.

1994—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), in introductory provisions substituted “subchapters” for “subchapters IV,” and “XII–C, and XII–I” for “and XII–C”, and in concluding provisions substituted “part A of subchapter V” for “subchapter IV” wherever appearing, “3751” for “3743(a)”, and “3753” for “3743”.

1990—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 101–647, § 801(c)(1)](/us/pl/101/647/s801/c/1), substituted “XII–B, and XII–C” for “and XII–B”.

[Pub. L. 101–647, § 241(b)(2)](/us/pl/101/647/s241/b/2), substituted “XII–A, and XII–B” for “and XII–A”.

1986—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–570](/us/pl/99/570) inserted reference to subchapter XII–A of this chapter in introductory provisions.

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) in amending subsec. (a) generally, substituted “Office of Justice Programs” for “Office of Justice Assistance, Research, and Statistics” and “Bureau of Justice Assistance” for “Law Enforcement Assistance Administration” and also included authority for the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention to establish rules, regulations, and procedures for exercise of its functions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) in amending subsec. (b) generally, substituted “Bureau of Justice Assistance” for “Law Enforcement Assistance Administration” wherever appearing; provided for consultations with the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention; and struck out provisions respecting: rules, regulations, and procedures affecting national priority grant programs or projects; evaluations in addition to the requirements of former sections 3743 and 3744 of this title; and requirement for comparison of effectiveness of formula grant programs or projects of States or local units of government with similar national priority and discretionary grant programs or projects.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) in amending section generally, reenacted subsec. (c) without change.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) applicable with respect to the first fiscal year beginning after Jan. 5, 2006, and each fiscal year thereafter, see [section 1111(d) of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s1111/d), set out as a note under [section 10151 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10151).

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 609AA(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609AA/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
