---
title: "§ 3527. Chaplain Corps and Chief of Chaplains"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3527"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3527"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 26](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s26), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title IV, § 411](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tIV/s411), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 976](/us/stat/136/976).)"
---
# § 3527. Chaplain Corps and Chief of Chaplains

##### § 3527. Chaplain Corps and Chief of Chaplains

(a) Establishment of Chaplain Corps There is in the Agency a Chaplain Corps for the provision of spiritual or religious pastoral services.

(b) Chief of Chaplains The head of the Chaplain Corps shall be the Chief of Chaplains, who shall be appointed by the Director.

(c) Staff and administration

(1) Staff The Director may appoint and fix the compensation of such staff of the Chaplain Corps as the Director considers appropriate, except that the Director may not—

(A) appoint more than 10 full-time equivalent positions; or

(B) provide basic pay to any member of the staff of the Chaplain Corps at an annual rate of basic pay in excess of the maximum rate of basic pay for grade GS–15 as provided in [section 5332 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332).

(2) Administration The Director may—

(A) reimburse members of the staff of the Chaplain Corps for work-related travel expenses;

(B) provide security clearances to such members;

(C) furnish such physical workspace at the headquarters building of the Agency as the Director considers appropriate; and

(D) certify that all Chaplains meet common standards for professional chaplaincy and board certification by a national chaplaincy and pastoral care organization or equivalent.

*([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 26](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s26), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title IV, § 411](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tIV/s411), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 976](/us/stat/136/976).)*
