---
title: "§ 7483. Issuance of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7483"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7483"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 574](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s574), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1076](/us/stat/110/1076).)"
---
# § 7483. Issuance of orders

##### § 7483. Issuance of orders

(a) In general To effectuate the policy described in [section 7481(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7481/b), the Secretary, subject to subsection (b), shall issue 1 or more orders applicable to processors. An order shall be applicable to all popcorn production and marketing areas in the United States. Not more than 1 order shall be in effect under this subchapter at any 1 time.

(b) Procedure

(1) Proposal or request for issuance The Secretary may propose the issuance of an order, or an association of processors or any other person that would be affected by an order may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for, an order.

(2) Notice and comment concerning proposed order Not later than 60 days after the receipt of a request and proposal for an order under paragraph (1), or at such time as the Secretary determines to propose an order, the Secretary shall publish a proposed order and give due notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order.

(3) Issuance of order After notice and opportunity for public comment under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue an order, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the order such provisions as are necessary to ensure that the order conforms to this subchapter. The order shall be issued and become effective not later than 150 days after the date of publication of the proposed order.

(c) Amendments The Secretary, as appropriate, may amend an order. The provisions of this subchapter applicable to an order shall be applicable to any amendment to an order, except that an amendment to an order may not require a referendum to become effective.

*([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 574](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s574), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1076](/us/stat/110/1076).)*
