---
title: "§ 2381a. Strengthened management practices"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2381a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2381a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 621A, as added [Pub. L. 90–554](/us/pl/90/554), pt. III, § 302(b), Oct. 8, 1968, [82 Stat. 964](/us/stat/82/964); amended [Pub. L. 95–424, title V, § 502(d)(1)](/us/pl/95/424/tV/s502/d/1), Oct. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 959](/us/stat/92/959).)"
---
# § 2381a. Strengthened management practices

##### § 2381a. Strengthened management practices

(a) Declaration of beliefs The Congress believes that United States foreign aid funds could be utilized more effectively by the application of advanced management decisionmaking, information and analysis techniques such as systems analysis, automatic data processing, benefit-cost studies, and information retrieval.

(b) Management system; establishment; scope To meet this need, the President shall establish a management system that includes: the definition of objectives and programs for United States foreign assistance; the development of quantitative indicators of progress toward these objectives; the orderly consideration of alternative means for accomplishing such objectives; and the adoption of methods for comparing actual results of programs and projects with those anticipated when they were undertaken. The system should provide information to the agency and to Congress that relates agency resources, expenditures, and budget projections to such objectives and results in order to assist in the evaluation of program performance, the review of budgetary requests, and the setting of program priorities.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 621A, as added [Pub. L. 90–554](/us/pl/90/554), pt. III, § 302(b), Oct. 8, 1968, [82 Stat. 964](/us/stat/82/964); amended [Pub. L. 95–424, title V, § 502(d)(1)](/us/pl/95/424/tV/s502/d/1), Oct. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 959](/us/stat/92/959).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 95–424](/us/pl/95/424) struck out subsec. (c) relating to annual reports to Congress by the President evaluating the progress made toward implementation of this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–424](/us/pl/95/424) effective Oct. 1, 1978, see [section 605 of Pub. L. 95–424](/us/pl/95/424/s605), set out as a note under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
