---
title: "§ 2000gg–3. Rulemaking"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000gg–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000gg–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. II, § 105](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s105), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 6088](/us/stat/136/6088).)"
---
# § 2000gg–3. Rulemaking

##### § 2000gg–3. Rulemaking

(a) EEOC rulemaking Not later than 1 year after December 29, 2022, the Commission shall issue regulations in an accessible format in accordance with subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5 to carry out this chapter. Such regulations shall provide examples of reasonable accommodations addressing known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions.

(b) OCWR rulemaking

(1) In general Not later than 6 months after the Commission issues regulations under subsection (a), the Board (as defined in [section 1301 of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1301)) shall (in accordance with [section 1384 of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1384)), issue regulations to implement the provisions of this chapter made applicable to employees described in [section 2000gg(3)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg/3/B), under [section 2000gg–2(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg–2/b).

(2) Parallel with agency regulations The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations issued by the Commission under subsection (a) except to the extent that the Board may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulations issued under paragraph (1) that a modification of such substantive regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protection under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. II, § 105](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s105), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 6088](/us/stat/136/6088).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 29, 2022, see [section 109 of div. II of Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328/dII/s109), set out as a note under [section 2000gg of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000gg).
