---
title: "§ 5327. Department of the Interior: availability of funds for Indian self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5327"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5327"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(3) [title I, § 113]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/3/tI/s113), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–157.)"
---
# § 5327. Department of the Interior: availability of funds for Indian self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs

##### § 5327. Department of the Interior: availability of funds for Indian self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended [[25 U.S.C. 5321](/us/usc/t25/s5321) et seq.], on and after November 29, 1999, funds available to the Department of the Interior for Indian self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs may be expended only for costs directly attributable to contracts, grants and compacts pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 and on and after November 29, 1999, funds appropriated in this title 11 See References in Text note below. shall not be available for any contract support costs or indirect costs associated with any contract, grant, cooperative agreement, self-governance compact or funding agreement entered into between an Indian tribe or tribal organization and any entity other than an agency of the Department of the Interior.

*([Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(3) [title I, § 113]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/3/tI/s113), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–157.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, referred to in text, probably means the Indian Self-Determination Act, title I of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/88/2206), which is classified principally to this subchapter (§ 5321 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

This title, referred to in text, is title I of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000, as enacted by [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(3)](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/3), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–135. For complete classification of this title to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000, and not as part of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 450j–3 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s450j–3) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Similar Provisions

Similar provisions were contained in [Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(e) [title I, § 114]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/e/tI/s114), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–231](/us/stat/112/2681-231), 2681–255.
