---
title: "§ 1108. Authorization to operate business"
identifier: "USC-T11-S1108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section1108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2629](/us/stat/92/2629); [Pub. L. 98–353, title III, § 504](/us/pl/98/353/tIII/s504), July 10, 1984, [98 Stat. 384](/us/stat/98/384).)"
---
# § 1108. Authorization to operate business

##### § 1108. Authorization to operate business

Unless the court, on request of a party in interest and after notice and a hearing, orders otherwise, the trustee may operate the debtor’s business.

*([Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2629](/us/stat/92/2629); [Pub. L. 98–353, title III, § 504](/us/pl/98/353/tIII/s504), July 10, 1984, [98 Stat. 384](/us/stat/98/384).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### legislative statements

The House amendment adopts section 1108 of the House bill in preference to the style of an identical substantive provision contained in the Senate amendment. Throughout title 11 references to a “trustee” is read to include other parties under various sections of the bill. For example, section 1107 applies to give the debtor in possession all the rights and powers of a trustee in a case under chapter 11; this includes the power of the trustee to operate the debtor’s business under section 1108.

#### senate report no. 95–989

This section permits the debtor’s business to continue to be operated, unless the court orders otherwise. Thus, in a reorganization case, operation of the business will be the rule, and it will not be necessary to go to the court to obtain an order authorizing operation.

#### house report no. 95–595

This section does not presume that a trustee will be appointed to operate the business of the debtor. Rather, the power granted to trustee under this section is one of the powers that a debtor in possession acquires by virtue of proposed [11 U.S.C. 1107](/us/usc/t11/s1107).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–353](/us/pl/98/353) inserted “, on request of a party in interest and after notice and a hearing,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–353](/us/pl/98/353) effective with respect to cases filed 90 days after July 10, 1984, see [section 552(a) of Pub. L. 98–353](/us/pl/98/353/s552/a), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).
