---
title: "§ 962. Right of way in Colorado and Wyoming to pipeline companies"
identifier: "USC-T43-S962"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section962"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([May 21, 1896, ch. 212, § 1](/us/act/1896-05-21/ch212/s1), [29 Stat. 127](/us/stat/29/127).)"
---
# § 962. Right of way in Colorado and Wyoming to pipeline companies

##### § 962. Right of way in Colorado and Wyoming to pipeline companies

The right of way through the public lands of the United States situate in the State of Colorado and in the State of Wyoming outside of the boundary lines of the Yellowstone National Park is granted to any pipe-line company or corporation formed for the purpose of transporting oils, crude or refined, which shall have filed or may hereafter file with the Secretary of the Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation, and due proofs of its organization under the same, to the extent of the ground occupied by said pipe line and twenty-five feet on each side of the center line of the same; also the right to take from the public lands adjacent to the line of said pipe line, material, earth, and stone necessary for the construction of said pipe line.

*([May 21, 1896, ch. 212, § 1](/us/act/1896-05-21/ch212/s1), [29 Stat. 127](/us/stat/29/127).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Short Title

Sections 962 to 965 of this title are popularly known as the “Oil Pipe Line Act”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Repeal; Savings Provision

Section repealed by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2793](/us/stat/90/2793), effective on and after Oct. 21, 1976, insofar as applicable to the issuance of rights-of-way over, upon, under, and through the public lands and lands in the National Forest System. Such repeal not to be construed as terminating any valid lease, permit, patent, etc., existing on Oct. 21, 1976, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579/s701), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1701).
