---
title: "§ 677. Counselor to the Chief Justice"
identifier: "USC-T28-S677"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section677"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 92–238, § 1](/us/pl/92/238/s1), Mar. 1, 1972, [86 Stat. 46](/us/stat/86/46); amended [Pub. L. 105–233, § 1](/us/pl/105/233/s1), Aug. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/112/1535); [Pub. L. 110–402, § 1(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/110/402/s1/b/3/A), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4254](/us/stat/122/4254); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. E, title III, § 307](/us/pl/117/328/dE/tIII/s307), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4672](/us/stat/136/4672).)"
---
# § 677. Counselor to the Chief Justice

##### § 677. Counselor to the Chief Justice

(a) The Chief Justice of the United States may appoint a Counselor who shall serve at the pleasure of the Chief Justice and shall perform such duties as may be assigned to him by the Chief Justice. The salary payable to the Counselor shall be fixed by the Chief Justice at a rate which shall not exceed the salary payable to the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. The Counselor may elect to bring himself within the same retirement program available to the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, as provided by [section 611 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s611), by filing a written election with the Chief Justice within the time and in the manner prescribed by section 611.

(b) The Counselor, with the approval of the Chief Justice, may appoint and fix the compensation of necessary employees. The Counselor and his employees shall be deemed employees of the Supreme Court.

(c)

(1) Notwithstanding [section 1342 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1342), the Counselor, with the approval of the Chief Justice, may accept voluntary personal services to assist with public and visitor programs.

(2) No person may volunteer personal services under this subsection unless the person has first agreed, in writing, to waive any claim against the United States arising out of or in connection with such services, other than a claim under chapter 81 of title 5.

(3) No person volunteering personal services under this subsection shall be considered an employee of the United States for any purpose other than for purposes of—

(A) chapter 81 of title 5; or

(B) chapter 171 of this title.

(4) In the administration of this subsection, the Counselor shall ensure that the acceptance of personal services shall not result in the reduction of pay or displacement of any employee of the Supreme Court.

(d) The Counselor, with the approval of the Chief Justice, shall establish a retention and recruitment program that is consistent with section 908 of the Emergency Supplemental Act, 2002 ([2 U.S.C. 1926](/us/usc/t2/s1926)) for Supreme Court Police officers and other critical employees who agree in writing to remain employed with the Supreme Court for a period of service of not less than two years.

*(Added [Pub. L. 92–238, § 1](/us/pl/92/238/s1), Mar. 1, 1972, [86 Stat. 46](/us/stat/86/46); amended [Pub. L. 105–233, § 1](/us/pl/105/233/s1), Aug. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/112/1535); [Pub. L. 110–402, § 1(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/110/402/s1/b/3/A), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4254](/us/stat/122/4254); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. E, title III, § 307](/us/pl/117/328/dE/tIII/s307), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4672](/us/stat/136/4672).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) added subsec. (d).

2008—[Pub. L. 110–402, § 1(b)(3)(A)(i)](/us/pl/110/402/s1/b/3/A/i), substituted “Counselor” for “Administrative Assistant” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–402, § 1(b)(3)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/110/402/s1/b/3/A/ii), substituted “a Counselor” for “an Administrative Assistant” in first sentence and “Counselor” for “Administrative Assistant” in second and third sentences.

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 110–402, § 1(b)(3)(A)(iii)](/us/pl/110/402/s1/b/3/A/iii), substituted “Counselor” for “Administrative Assistant” wherever appearing.

1998—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 105–233](/us/pl/105/233) added subsec. (c).
