---
title: "§ 3053. Reburial of human remains and cultural items"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3053"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3053"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, § 8103](/us/pl/110/234/tVIII/s8103), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1287](/us/stat/122/1287); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title VIII, § 8103, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2049.)"
---
# § 3053. Reburial of human remains and cultural items

##### § 3053. Reburial of human remains and cultural items

(a) Reburial sites In consultation with an affected Indian tribe or lineal descendant, the Secretary may authorize the use of National Forest System land by the Indian tribe or lineal descendant for the reburial of human remains or cultural items in the possession of the Indian tribe or lineal descendant that have been disinterred from National Forest System land or an adjacent site.

(b) Reburial With the consent of the affected Indian tribe or lineal descendent, the Secretary may recover and rebury, at Federal expense or using other available funds, human remains and cultural items described in subsection (a) at the National Forest System land identified under that subsection.

(c) Authorization of use

(1) In general Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may authorize such uses of reburial sites on National Forest System land, or on the National Forest System land immediately surrounding a reburial site, as the Secretary determines to be necessary for management of the National Forest System.

(2) Avoidance of adverse impacts In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall avoid adverse impacts to cultural items and human remains, to the maximum extent practicable.

*([Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, § 8103](/us/pl/110/234/tVIII/s8103), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1287](/us/stat/122/1287); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title VIII, § 8103, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2049.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and repeal of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234), see [section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4), set out as a note under [section 8701 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8701), Agriculture.

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see [section 8701 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8701), Agriculture.
