---
title: "§ 9265. Notification of termination or suspension of sanctions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9265"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9265"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7131](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7131), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2252](/us/stat/133/2252).)"
---
# § 9265. Notification of termination or suspension of sanctions

##### § 9265. Notification of termination or suspension of sanctions

Before taking any action to terminate or suspend the application of sanctions under this subtitle 11 See References in Text note below. or an amendment made by this subtitle, the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of the President’s intent to take the action and the reasons for the action.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7131](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7131), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2252](/us/stat/133/2252).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in text, is subtitle A of title LXXI of div. F of [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2244](/us/stat/133/2244), which enacted this subchapter and sections 262p–13, 286yy, 9221b, and 9221c of this title, amended sections 9202, 9212, 9214, 9223, 9224, 9228, 9241, and 9251 of this title, repealed sections 262p–13 and 286yy of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 262p–13 and 286yy of this title. For complete classification of this subtitle to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and Enforcement Act of 2019, and also as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, and not as part of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions and authorities of President under this section delegated to Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, by section 1(a)(v) of Memorandum of President of the United States, Feb. 21, 2020, 85 F.R. 13717, set out as a note under [section 286yy of this title](/us/usc/t22/s286yy).
