---
title: "§ 12645g. Criminal history checks"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12645g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12645g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 189D](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s189D), as added and amended [Pub. L. 111–13, title I](/us/pl/111/13/tI), §§ 1612, 1614(a), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1540](/us/stat/123/1540), 1541.)"
---
# § 12645g. Criminal history checks

##### § 12645g. Criminal history checks

(a) In general Each entity selecting individuals to serve in a position in which the individuals receive a living allowance, stipend, national service educational award, or salary through a program receiving assistance under the national service laws, shall, subject to regulations and requirements established by the Corporation, conduct criminal history checks for such individuals.

(b) Requirements A criminal history check under subsection (a) shall, except in cases approved for good cause by the Corporation, include—

(1) a name-based search of the National Sex Offender Registry established under the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16901](/us/usc/t42/s16901) et seq.); 11 See References in Text note below. and

(2)

(A) a search of the State criminal registry or repository in the State in which the program is operating and the State in which the individual resides at the time of application; or

(B) submitting fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal history background check.

(c) Eligibility prohibition An individual shall be ineligible to serve in a position described under subsection (a) if such individual—

(1) refuses to consent to the criminal history check described in subsection (b);

(2) makes a false statement in connection with such criminal history check;

(3) is registered, or is required to be registered, on a State sex offender registry or the National Sex Offender Registry established under the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16901](/us/usc/t42/s16901) et seq.); ^1 or

(4) has been convicted of murder, as described in [section 1111 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1111).

(d) Special rule for individuals working with vulnerable populations

(1) In general Notwithstanding subsection (b), on and after the date that is 2 years after April 21, 2009, a criminal history check under subsection (a) for each individual described in paragraph (2) shall, except for an entity described in paragraph (3), include—

(A) a name-based search of the National Sex Offender Registry established under the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16901](/us/usc/t42/s16901) et seq.); ^1

(B) a search of the State criminal registry or repository in the State in which the program is operating and the State in which the individual resides at the time of application; and

(C) submitting fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal history background check.

(2) Individuals with access to vulnerable populations An individual described in this paragraph is an individual age 18 or older who—

(A) serves in a position in which the individual receives a living allowance, stipend, national service educational award, or salary through a program receiving assistance under the national service laws; and

(B) as a result of such individual’s service in such position, has or will have access, on a recurring basis, to—

(i) children age 17 years or younger;

(ii) individuals age 60 years or older; or

(iii) individuals with disabilities.

(3) Exceptions The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to an entity—

(A) where the service provided by individuals serving with the entity to a vulnerable population described in paragraph (2)(B) is episodic in nature or for a 1-day period;

(B) where the cost to the entity of complying with this subsection is prohibitive;

(C) where the entity is not authorized, or is otherwise unable, under State law, to access the national criminal history background check system of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;

(D) where the entity is not authorized, or is otherwise unable, under Federal law, to access the national criminal history background check system of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or

(E) to which the Corporation otherwise provides an exemption from this subsection for good cause.

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 189D](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s189D), as added and amended [Pub. L. 111–13, title I](/us/pl/111/13/tI), §§ 1612, 1614(a), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1540](/us/stat/123/1540), 1541.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1), (c)(3), and (d)(1)(A), is [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 587](/us/stat/120/587), which was classified principally to chapter 151 (§ 16901 et seq.) of this title, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as chapter 209 (§ 20901 et seq.) of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of Title 34](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2009—[Pub. L. 111–13, § 1614(a)](/us/pl/111/13/s1614/a), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Enactment and amendment by [Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13) effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).
