---
title: "§ 11145. Reports by rail carriers, lessors, and associations"
identifier: "USC-T49-S11145"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section11145"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 835](/us/stat/109/835).)"
---
# § 11145. Reports by rail carriers, lessors, and associations

##### § 11145. Reports by rail carriers, lessors, and associations

(a) The Board may require—

(1) rail carriers, lessors, and associations, or classes of them as the Board may prescribe, to file annual, periodic, and special reports with the Board containing answers to questions asked by it; and

(2) a person furnishing cars to a rail carrier to file reports with the Board containing answers to questions about those cars.

(b)

(1) An annual report shall contain an account, in as much detail as the Board may require, of the affairs of the rail carrier, lessor, or association for the 12-month period ending on December 31 of each year.

(2) An annual report shall be filed with the Board by the end of the third month after the end of the year for which the report is made unless the Board extends the filing date or changes the period covered by the report. The annual report and, if the Board requires, any other report made under this section, shall be made under oath.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 835](/us/stat/109/835).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 11145, [Pub. L. 95–473](/us/pl/95/473), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1427](/us/stat/92/1427); [Pub. L. 96–296, § 5(b)](/us/pl/96/296/s5/b), July 1, 1980, [94 Stat. 796](/us/stat/94/796), related to reports by carriers, lessors, and associations, prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a). See sections 11145, 14123, and 15723 of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
