---
title: "§ 117. Exclusive jurisdiction ceded to United States by Colorado; saving provisions; fugitives from justice"
identifier: "USC-T16-S117"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section117"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Apr. 25, 1928, ch. 434, § 1](/us/act/1928-04-25/ch434/s1), [45 Stat. 458](/us/stat/45/458).)"
---
# § 117. Exclusive jurisdiction ceded to United States by Colorado; saving provisions; fugitives from justice

##### § 117. Exclusive jurisdiction ceded to United States by Colorado; saving provisions; fugitives from justice

Sole and exclusive jurisdiction is assumed by the United States over the territory embraced and included within the Mesa Verde National Park, saving, however, to the State of Colorado the right to serve civil or criminal process within the limits of the aforesaid park in suits or prosecutions for or on account of rights acquired, obligations incurred, or crimes committed outside of said park; and saving further to the said State the right to tax persons and corporations, their franchises and property on the lands included in said tracts: and saving also to the persons residing in said park now or after April 25, 1928, the right to vote at all elections held within the county or counties in which said tracts are situated. All the laws applicable to places under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States shall have force and effect in said park. All fugitives from justice taking refuge in said park shall be subject to the same laws as refugees from justice found in the State of Colorado.

*([Apr. 25, 1928, ch. 434, § 1](/us/act/1928-04-25/ch434/s1), [45 Stat. 458](/us/stat/45/458).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

A provision accepting the act of the Colorado Legislature which ceded to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over the territory referred to in this section has been omitted as executed.
