---
title: "§ 4825. Effect on other acts"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4825"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4825"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1767](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1767), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2233](/us/stat/132/2233).)"
---
# § 4825. Effect on other acts

##### § 4825. Effect on other acts

(a) In general Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to modify, repeal, supersede, or otherwise affect the provisions of any other laws authorizing control over the export or reexport of any item.

(b) Coordination of controls

(1) In general The authority granted to the President under this subchapter shall be exercised in such manner so as to achieve effective coordination with the authority exercised under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act ([22 U.S.C. 2778](/us/usc/t22/s2778)) and all other export control and sanctions authorities exercised by Federal departments and agencies, particularly the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Energy.

(2) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that in order to achieve effective coordination described in paragraph (1), such Federal departments and agencies—

(A) should continuously work to create enforceable regulations with respect to the export, reexport, and in-country transfer by United States and foreign persons of commodities, software, technology, and services to various end uses and end users for foreign policy and national security reasons;

(B) should regularly work to reduce complexity in the system, including complexity caused merely by the existence of structural, definitional, and other non-policy based differences between and among different export control and sanctions systems; and

(C) should coordinate controls on items exported, reexported, or in-country transferred in connection with a foreign military sale under chapter 2 of the Arms Export Control Act ([22 U.S.C. 2761](/us/usc/t22/s2761) et seq.) or a commercial sale under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act [[22 U.S.C. 2778](/us/usc/t22/s2778)] to reduce as much unnecessary administrative burden as possible that is a result of differences between the exercise of those two authorities.

(c) Nonproliferation controls Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to supersede the procedures published by the President pursuant to [section 2139a(c) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2139a/c).

*([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1767](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1767), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2233](/us/stat/132/2233).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this part”, meaning part I (§§ 1751–1768) of subtitle B of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), known as the Export Controls Act of 2018, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of part I to the Code, see [section 1751 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1751), set out as a Short Title note under [section 4801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4801) and Tables.

The Arms Export Control Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(C), is [Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/82/1320). Chapter 2 of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 2761 et seq.) of chapter 39 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2751 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s2751) and Tables.
