---
title: "§ 1863. Trespass on national forest lands"
identifier: "USC-T18-S1863"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section1863"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 43](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s43), [63 Stat. 95](/us/stat/63/95); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(G)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/G), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 1863. Trespass on national forest lands

##### § 1863. Trespass on national forest lands

Whoever, without lawful authority or permission, goes upon any national-forest land while it is closed to the public pursuant to lawful regulation of the Secretary of Agriculture, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.

*(Added [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 43](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s43), [63 Stat. 95](/us/stat/63/95); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(G)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/G), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section [section 43] incorporates in revised title 18, U.S.C., as section 1863 thereof, and with changes in phraseology, the provisions of act of February 10, 1948 (ch. 51, [62 Stat. 19](/us/stat/62/19)), which was not incorporated in title 18 when the revision was enacted. The phrase “without hard labor” is omitted from the punishment clause as unnecessary, in conformity with the uniform style of such title. (See reviser’s note to sec. 1 of such revised title, appearing in H. Rept. No. 304, April 24, 1947, to accompany H.R. 3190, 80th Cong. (pp. A2, A4 of such report).) The concluding proviso that “nothing herein shall be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture under other law to otherwise provide for regulating the occupancy and use of national-forest lands and lands administered by the Forest Service”, is omitted as surplusage.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $500”.
