---
title: "§ 2567. Limitation of damages; marking and notice"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2567"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2567"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–577, title III, § 127](/us/pl/91/577/tIII/s127), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1557](/us/stat/84/1557); [Pub. L. 96–574, § 19(b)](/us/pl/96/574/s19/b), Dec. 22, 1980, [94 Stat. 3351](/us/stat/94/3351); [Pub. L. 103–349, § 11](/us/pl/103/349/s11), Oct. 6, 1994, [108 Stat. 3142](/us/stat/108/3142).)"
---
# § 2567. Limitation of damages; marking and notice

##### § 2567. Limitation of damages; marking and notice

Owners may give notice to the public by physically associating with or affixing to the container of seed of a variety or by fixing to the variety, a label containing either the words “Unauthorized Propagation Prohibited” or the words “Unauthorized Seed Multiplication Prohibited” and after the certificate issues, such additional words as “U.S. Protected Variety”. In the event the variety is distributed by authorization of the owner and is received by the infringer without such marking, no damages shall be recovered against such infringer by the owner in any action for infringement, unless the infringer has actual notice or knowledge that propagation is prohibited or that the variety is a protected variety, in which event damages may be recovered only for infringement occurring after such notice. As to both damages and injunction, a court shall have discretion to be lenient as to disposal of materials acquired in good faith by acts prior to such notice.

*([Pub. L. 91–577, title III, § 127](/us/pl/91/577/tIII/s127), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1557](/us/stat/84/1557); [Pub. L. 96–574, § 19(b)](/us/pl/96/574/s19/b), Dec. 22, 1980, [94 Stat. 3351](/us/stat/94/3351); [Pub. L. 103–349, § 11](/us/pl/103/349/s11), Oct. 6, 1994, [108 Stat. 3142](/us/stat/108/3142).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–349](/us/pl/103/349) in first sentence struck out “novel” before “variety or” and before “variety, a”, and in second sentence struck out “novel” before “variety is distributed”.

1980—[Pub. L. 96–574](/us/pl/96/574) substituted “either the words ‘Unauthorized Propagation Prohibited’ or the words ‘Unauthorized Seed Multiplication Prohibited’ ” for “the words ‘Propagation Prohibited’ ”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–349](/us/pl/103/349) effective 180 days after Oct. 6, 1994, see [section 15 of Pub. L. 103–349](/us/pl/103/349/s15), set out as a note under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2401).
