---
title: "§ 3701. Congressional findings and declarations"
identifier: "USC-T7-S3701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section3701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–358, § 2](/us/pl/96/358/s2), Sept. 25, 1980, [94 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/94/1184).)"
---
# § 3701. Congressional findings and declarations

##### § 3701. Congressional findings and declarations

(1) an adequate system for the efficient transient storage and movement of bulk agricultural commodities is essential to the overall success of the agricultural industry of the Nation, the development of rural areas of the Nation, and the economic stability of the Nation;

(2) the movement and storage of bulk agricultural commodities has been seriously and repeatedly impeded by shortages of transient storage facilities, adequate rail rolling stock, and the deterioration of many railroad track beds and rural highways throughout the United States;

(3) the efficient movement and storage of bulk agricultural commodities may be achieved and facilitated by the joint location at strategic points throughout the United States of transient storage facilities and multimodal terminal facilities constructed especially for the efficient shipment and receipt of agricultural commodities; and

(4) the location of such facilities must be carefully planned to assure maximum benefits to producers of agricultural commodities and unprocessed agricultural products and utilization of the most efficient means of transporting bulk agricultural commodities for domestic and export markets.

*([Pub. L. 96–358, § 2](/us/pl/96/358/s2), Sept. 25, 1980, [94 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/94/1184).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 96–358, § 6](/us/pl/96/358/s6), Sept. 25, 1980, [94 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/94/1189), provided that: “The provisions of this Act [enacting this chapter and amending [section 1932 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1932)] shall become effective October 1, 1980.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 96–358, § 1](/us/pl/96/358/s1), Sept. 25, 1980, [94 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/94/1184), provided: “That this Act [enacting this chapter and amending [section 1932 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1932)] may be cited as the ‘Agricultural Subterminal Facilities Act of 1980’.”
