---
title: "§ 20991. Annual report on enforcement of registration requirements"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20991"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20991"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 635](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s635), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 644](/us/stat/120/644).)"
---
# § 20991. Annual report on enforcement of registration requirements

##### § 20991. Annual report on enforcement of registration requirements

(1) the use by the Department of Justice of the United States Marshals Service to assist jurisdictions in locating and apprehending sex offenders who fail to comply with sex offender registration requirements, as authorized by this chapter;

(2) the use of [section 2250 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2250) to punish offenders for failure to register;

(3) a detailed explanation of each jurisdiction’s compliance with subchapter I of this chapter;

(4) a detailed description of Justice Department efforts to ensure compliance and any funding reductions, the basis for any decision to reduce funding or not to reduce funding under [section 20927 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20927); and

(5) the denial or grant of any extensions to comply with subchapter I of this chapter, and the reasons for such denial or grant.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 635](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s635), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 644](/us/stat/120/644).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in par. (1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 587](/us/stat/120/587), known as the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

Subchapter I of this chapter, referred to in pars. (3) and (5), was in the original “the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 590](/us/stat/120/590). For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16991 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16991), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
