---
title: "§ 5634. Office of Special Trustee for American Indians"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5634"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5634"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–178, title III, § 304](/us/pl/114/178/tIII/s304), June 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 441](/us/stat/130/441).)"
---
# § 5634. Office of Special Trustee for American Indians

##### § 5634. Office of Special Trustee for American Indians

(a) Information to Congress Notwithstanding sections 4042 and 4043 of this title, not later than 1 year after June 22, 2016, the Secretary shall prepare and, after consultation with Indian tribes and appropriate Indian organizations, submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate—

(1) an identification of all functions, other than the collection, management, and investment of Indian trust funds, that the Office of the Special Trustee performs independently or in concert with the BIA or other Federal agencies, specifically those functions that affect or relate to management of nonmonetary trust resources;

(2) a description of any functions of the Office of the Special Trustee that will be transitioned to other bureaus or agencies within the Department prior to the termination date of the Office, as described in paragraph (3), together with the timeframes for those transfers; and

(3) a transition plan and timetable for the termination of the Office of the Special Trustee, to occur not later than 2 years after the date of submission, unless the Secretary determines than an orderly transition cannot be accomplished within 2 years, in which case the Secretary shall include—

(A) a statement of all reasons why the transition cannot be effected within that time; and

(B) an alternative date for completing the transition.

(b) Fiduciary trust officers Subject to applicable law and regulations, the Secretary, at the request of an Indian tribe or a consortium of Indian tribes, shall include fiduciary trust officers in a contract, compact, or other agreement under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.).11 See References in Text note below.

(c) Effect of section Nothing in this section or the submission required by this section—

(1) shall cause the Office of the Special Trustee to terminate; or

(2) affect the application of sections 4042 and 4043 of this title.

*([Pub. L. 114–178, title III, § 304](/us/pl/114/178/tIII/s304), June 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 441](/us/stat/130/441).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which was classified principally to subchapter II (§ 450 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.
