---
title: "§ 1097d. TRICARE program: notice of change to benefits"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1097d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1097d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title VII, § 711(a)](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tVII/s711/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3413](/us/stat/128/3413).)"
---
# § 1097d. TRICARE program: notice of change to benefits

##### § 1097d. TRICARE program: notice of change to benefits

(a) Provision of Notice.—

(1) If the Secretary makes a significant change to any benefits provided by the TRICARE program to covered beneficiaries, the Secretary shall provide individuals described in paragraph (2) with notice explaining such changes.

(2) The individuals described by this paragraph are covered beneficiaries participating in the TRICARE program who may be affected by a significant change covered by a notification under paragraph (1).

(3) The Secretary shall provide notice under paragraph (1) through electronic means.

(b) Timing of Notice.— The Secretary shall provide notice under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) by the earlier of the following dates:

(1) The date that the Secretary determines would afford individuals described in paragraph (2) of such subsection adequate time to understand the change covered by the notification.

(2) The date that is 90 days before the date on which the change covered by the notification becomes effective.

(3) The effective date of a significant change that is required by law.

(c) Significant Change Defined.— In this section, the term “significant change” means a systemwide change—

(1) in the structure of the TRICARE program or the benefits provided under the TRICARE program (not including the addition of new services or benefits); or

(2) in beneficiary cost-share rates of more than 20 percent.

*(Added [Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title VII, § 711(a)](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tVII/s711/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3413](/us/stat/128/3413).)*
