---
title: "§ 474. Review of district court action"
identifier: "USC-T28-S474"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section474"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–650, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/101/650/tI/s103/a), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5093](/us/stat/104/5093); amended [Pub. L. 102–198, § 2(2)](/us/pl/102/198/s2/2), Dec. 9, 1991, [105 Stat. 1623](/us/stat/105/1623).)"
---
# § 474. Review of district court action

##### § 474. Review of district court action

(a)

(1) The chief judge of each district court in a circuit and the chief judge of the circuit shall, as a committee—

(A) review each plan and report submitted pursuant to [section 472(d) of this title](/us/usc/t28/s472/d); and

(B) make such suggestions for additional actions or modified actions of that district court as the committee considers appropriate for reducing cost and delay in civil litigation in the district court.

(2) The chief judge of a circuit may designate another judge of the court of appeals of that circuit, and the chief judge of a district court may designate another judge of such court, to perform that chief judge’s responsibilities under paragraph (1) of this subsection.

(b) The Judicial Conference of the United States—

(1) shall review each plan and report submitted by a district court pursuant to [section 472(d) of this title](/us/usc/t28/s472/d); and

(2) may request the district court to take additional action if the Judicial Conference determines that such court has not adequately responded to the conditions relevant to the civil and criminal dockets of the court or to the recommendations of the district court’s advisory group.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–650, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/101/650/tI/s103/a), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5093](/us/stat/104/5093); amended [Pub. L. 102–198, § 2(2)](/us/pl/102/198/s2/2), Dec. 9, 1991, [105 Stat. 1623](/us/stat/105/1623).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 102–198, § 2(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/198/s2/2/A), substituted “chief judge” for “chief judges” and struck out “court of appeals for such” after “judge of the” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 102–198, § 2(2)(B)](/us/pl/102/198/s2/2/B), substituted “circuit may designate another judge of the court of appeals of that circuit,” for “court of appeals” and “court, to perform that” for “court to perform the”.
