---
title: "§ 1507. Tare and draft"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 507, [46 Stat. 732](/us/stat/46/732); [Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1902(a)](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1902/a), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/102/1312).)"
---
# § 1507. Tare and draft

##### § 1507. Tare and draft

(a) In general The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to prescribe and issue regulations for the ascertainment of tare upon imported merchandise, including the establishment of reasonable and just schedule tares therefor, but (except as otherwise provided in this section) there shall not be any allowance for draft or for impurities, other than excessive moisture and impurities not usually found in or upon such or similar merchandise.

(b) Crude oil and petroleum products In ascertaining tare on imports of crude oil, and on imports of petroleum products, allowance shall be made for all detectable moisture and impurities present in, or upon, the imported crude oil or petroleum products.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 507, [46 Stat. 732](/us/stat/46/732); [Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1902(a)](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1902/a), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/102/1312).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 506](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s506), [42 Stat. 968](/us/stat/42/968). That section was superseded by section 507 of act June 17, 1930, comprising this section, and repealed by section 651(a)(1) of the 1930 act.

A prior provision relative to the allowance of tare, prohibiting any allowance for draught, was contained in R.S. § 2898, prior to repeal by [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 642](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s642), [42 Stat. 989](/us/stat/42/989).

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) designated existing provision as subsec. (a), substituted “(except as otherwise provided in this section) there shall not be” for “in no case shall there be”, and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

[Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1902(b)](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1902/b), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1313](/us/stat/102/1313), as amended by [Pub. L. 100–647, title IX, § 9001(a)(18)](/us/pl/100/647/tIX/s9001/a/18), Nov. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 3808](/us/stat/102/3808), provided that: “The amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall apply with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after October 1, 1988.”
