---
title: "§ 2736b. Leadership engagement and accountability"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2736b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2736b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIV, § 5404](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIV/s5404), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2373](/us/stat/135/2373).)"
---
# § 2736b. Leadership engagement and accountability

##### § 2736b. Leadership engagement and accountability

(a) Reward and recognize efforts to promote diversity and inclusion

(1) In general The Secretary shall implement performance and advancement requirements that reward and recognize the efforts of individuals in senior positions and supervisors in the Department in fostering an inclusive environment and cultivating talent consistent with merit system principles, such as through participation in mentoring programs or sponsorship initiatives, recruitment events, and other similar opportunities.

(2) Outreach events The Secretary shall create opportunities for individuals in senior positions and supervisors in the Department to participate in outreach events and to discuss issues relating to diversity and inclusion with the workforce on a regular basis, including with employee resource groups.

(b) External advisory committees and boards For each external advisory committee or board to which individuals in senior positions in the Department appoint members, the Secretary is strongly encouraged by Congress to ensure such external advisory committee or board is developed, reviewed, and carried out by qualified teams that represent the diversity of the organization.

*([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIV, § 5404](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIV/s5404), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2373](/us/stat/135/2373).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary” and “Department” as used in this section, see [section 5002 of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s5002), set out as a note under [section 263c of this title](/us/usc/t22/s263c).

For definitions of “diversity” and “workforce” as used in this section, see [section 5401 of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s5401), set out as a note under [section 2736 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2736).
