---
title: "§ 3078. Repealing and savings provisions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3078"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3078"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title III, § 312, formerly title IV, § 411, as added [Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, § 11](/us/act/1949-08-10/ch412/s11), [63 Stat. 590](/us/stat/63/590); renumbered title III, § 312, [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6742(b)(11)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6742/b/11), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2240](/us/stat/133/2240).)"
---
# § 3078. Repealing and savings provisions

##### § 3078. Repealing and savings provisions

All laws, orders, and regulations inconsistent with the provisions of this title 11 See References in Text note below. are repealed insofar as they are inconsistent with the powers, duties, and responsibilities enacted hereby: *Provided*, That the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense under this title 1 shall be administered in conformance with the policy and requirements for administration of budgetary and fiscal matters in the Government generally, including accounting and financial reporting, and that nothing in this title 1 shall be construed as eliminating or modifying the powers, duties, and responsibilities of any other department, agency, or officer of the Government in connection with such matters, but no such department, agency, or officer shall exercise any such powers, duties, or responsibilities in a manner that will render ineffective the provisions of this title.1

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title III, § 312, formerly title IV, § 411, as added [Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, § 11](/us/act/1949-08-10/ch412/s11), [63 Stat. 590](/us/stat/63/590); renumbered title III, § 312, [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6742(b)(11)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6742/b/11), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2240](/us/stat/133/2240).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in text, meant, when enacted, title IV of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), which was added by section 11 of [act Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412](/us/act/1949-08-10/ch412), [63 Stat. 585](/us/stat/63/585), and which consisted of sections 401 to 411, this section being section 411. Section 11 of act Aug. 10, 1949—except for “§ 411”—was repealed by [Pub. L. 87–651, § 307](/us/pl/87/651/s307), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 526](/us/stat/76/526). Although that repeal was executed by repealing title IV of act July 26, 1947 (except for this section), and the subsequent renumbering of section 411 of that Act as section 312 suggests that this section is now within title III, it is unclear whether the reference to “this title” should now be interpreted as referring to title III (classified to this subchapter) or whether it continues to refer to the now eliminated title IV. See Codification note below.

#### Codification

When originally enacted, this section was section 411 of title IV of the National Security Act of 1947, [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343) (“the Act”). Title IV of the Act, consisting of sections 401 to 411, was added by section 11 of [act Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412](/us/act/1949-08-10/ch412), [63 Stat. 585](/us/stat/63/585). Provisions of title IV of the Act were restated by [Pub. L. 87–651](/us/pl/87/651), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 506](/us/stat/76/506), section 307 of which (at [76 Stat. 526](/us/stat/76/526)) subsequently repealed section 11 of act Aug. 10, 1949—except for “§ 411”—but did not repeal any of the sections in title IV directly. Nevertheless, the repeal of section 11, except for “§ 411”, was executed as a repeal of title IV of the Act, except for this section. There is debate as to whether any of title IV of the Act continued to exist after the repeal such that section 411 remained a part of it or whether all other traces of the title were eliminated completely so that section 411 was effectively absorbed into title III. The subsequent renumbering of section 411 of the Act as section 312 by [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) suggests that this section should be considered within title III (as shown in the credit above), although there has been no explicit amendment renumbering the title of the Act containing it.

Section was classified to [section 3006 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3006) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92).

Section was formerly classified to [section 412 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s412) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as section 3006, and to section 172j of former Title 5 prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).
