---
title: "§ 118. Filing by other than inventor"
identifier: "USC-T35-S118"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-12"
last_updated: "2025-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title35-section118"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "35"
source_credit: "([July 19, 1952, ch. 950](/us/act/1952-07-19/ch950), [66 Stat. 799](/us/stat/66/799); [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(9) [title IV, § 4732(a)(10)(A)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/9/tIV/s4732/a/10/A), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–582; [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title III, § 13206(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tIII/s13206/b/1/B), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1906](/us/stat/116/1906); [Pub. L. 112–29, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/112/29/s4/b/1), Sept. 16, 2011, [125 Stat. 296](/us/stat"
---
# § 118. Filing by other than inventor

##### § 118. Filing by other than inventor

A person to whom the inventor has assigned or is under an obligation to assign the invention may make an application for patent. A person who otherwise shows sufficient proprietary interest in the matter may make an application for patent on behalf of and as agent for the inventor on proof of the pertinent facts and a showing that such action is appropriate to preserve the rights of the parties. If the Director grants a patent on an application filed under this section by a person other than the inventor, the patent shall be granted to the real party in interest and upon such notice to the inventor as the Director considers to be sufficient.

*([July 19, 1952, ch. 950](/us/act/1952-07-19/ch950), [66 Stat. 799](/us/stat/66/799); [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(9) [title IV, § 4732(a)(10)(A)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/9/tIV/s4732/a/10/A), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–582; [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title III, § 13206(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tIII/s13206/b/1/B), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1906](/us/stat/116/1906); [Pub. L. 112–29, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/112/29/s4/b/1), Sept. 16, 2011, [125 Stat. 296](/us/stat/125/296).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section is new and provides for the filing of an application by another on behalf of the inventor in certain special hardship situations.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2011—[Pub. L. 112–29](/us/pl/112/29) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Whenever an inventor refuses to execute an application for patent, or cannot be found or reached after diligent effort, a person to whom the inventor has assigned or agreed in writing to assign the invention or who otherwise shows sufficient proprietary interest in the matter justifying such action, may make application for patent on behalf of and as agent for the inventor on proof of the pertinent facts and a showing that such action is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties or to prevent irreparable damage; and the Director may grant a patent to such inventor upon such notice to him as the Director deems sufficient, and on compliance with such regulations as he prescribes.”

2002—[Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273) made technical correction to directory language of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113). See 1999 Amendment note below.

1999—[Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), as amended by [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273), substituted “Director” for “Commissioner” in two places.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2011 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–29](/us/pl/112/29) effective upon the expiration of the 1-year period beginning on Sept. 16, 2011, and applicable to any patent application that is filed on or after that effective date, see [section 4(e) of Pub. L. 112–29](/us/pl/112/29/s4/e), set out as a note under [section 111 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s111).

#### Effective Date of 1999 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113) effective 4 months after Nov. 29, 1999, see section 1000(a)(9) [title IV, § 4731] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s1).
