---
title: "§ 8001. Congressional findings"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–557, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/95/557/tIV/s402), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2104](/us/stat/92/2104).)"
---
# § 8001. Congressional findings

##### § 8001. Congressional findings

(1) congregate housing, coordinated with the delivery of supportive services, offers an innovative, proven, and cost-effective means of enabling temporarily disabled or handicapped individuals to maintain their dignity and independence and to avoid costly and unnecessary institutionalization;

(2) a large and growing number of elderly and handicapped residents of public housing projects and of nonprofit projects for the elderly and handicapped face premature and unnecessary institutionalization because of the absence of or deficiencies in the availability, adequacy, coordination, or delivery of the supportive services required for the successful development of adequate numbers of congregate housing projects; and

(3) supplemental supportive services, available on a secure and continuing basis, are essential to a successful congregate housing program.

*([Pub. L. 95–557, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/95/557/tIV/s402), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2104](/us/stat/92/2104).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2011 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–374, § 1(a)](/us/pl/111/374/s1/a), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4089](/us/stat/124/4089), provided that: “This Act [amending [section 8013 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8013) and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 8013 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8013)] may be cited as the ‘Frank Melville Supportive Housing Investment Act of 2010’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 95–557, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/95/557/tIV/s401), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2104](/us/stat/92/2104), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter and amending [section 1437e of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1437e)] may be cited as the ‘Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978’.”
