---
title: "§ 460k–1. Acquisition of lands for recreational development; funds"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460k–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460k–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–714, § 2](/us/pl/87/714/s2), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 653](/us/stat/76/653); [Pub. L. 92–534](/us/pl/92/534), Oct. 23, 1972, [86 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/86/1063); [Pub. L. 93–205, § 13(d)](/us/pl/93/205/s13/d), Dec. 28, 1973, [87 Stat. 902](/us/stat/87/902).)"
---
# § 460k–1. Acquisition of lands for recreational development; funds

##### § 460k–1. Acquisition of lands for recreational development; funds

(1) incidental fish and wildlife-oriented recreational development,

(2) the protection of natural resources,

(3) the conservation of endangered species or threatened species listed by the Secretary pursuant to [section 1533 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1533), or

(4) carrying out two or more of the purposes set forth in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this section, and are adjacent to, or within, the said conservation areas, except that the acquisition of any land or interest therein pursuant to this section shall be accomplished only with such funds as may be appropriated therefor by the Congress or donated for such purposes, but such property shall not be acquired with funds obtained from the sale of Federal migratory bird hunting stamps.

*([Pub. L. 87–714, § 2](/us/pl/87/714/s2), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 653](/us/stat/76/653); [Pub. L. 92–534](/us/pl/92/534), Oct. 23, 1972, [86 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/86/1063); [Pub. L. 93–205, § 13(d)](/us/pl/93/205/s13/d), Dec. 28, 1973, [87 Stat. 902](/us/stat/87/902).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1973—[Pub. L. 93–205](/us/pl/93/205) inserted references to the acquisition of interest in land the conservation of endangered species or threatened species listed by the Secretary pursuant to [section 1533 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1533).

1972—[Pub. L. 92–534](/us/pl/92/534) substituted provisions authorizing the Secretary to acquire lands suitable for fish and wildlife oriented recreational development, or for the protection of natural resources and adjacent to conservation areas, for provisions authorizing the Secretary to acquire limited areas of land for recreational development adjacent to conservation areas in existence or approved by the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission as of September 28, 1962.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1973 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–205](/us/pl/93/205) effective Dec. 28, 1973, see [section 16 of Pub. L. 93–205](/us/pl/93/205/s16), set out as a note under [section 1531 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1531).
