---
title: "§ 7521. Procedures involving taxpayer interviews"
identifier: "USC-T26-S7521"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section7521"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–647, title VI, § 6228(a)](/us/pl/100/647/tVI/s6228/a), Nov. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 3731](/us/stat/102/3731), § 7520; renumbered § 7521, [Pub. L. 101–239, title VII, § 7816(u)(1)](/us/pl/101/239/tVII/s7816/u/1), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2423](/us/stat/103/2423).)"
---
# § 7521. Procedures involving taxpayer interviews

##### § 7521. Procedures involving taxpayer interviews

(a) Recording of interviews

(1) Recording by taxpayer Any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service in connection with any in-person interview with any taxpayer relating to the determination or collection of any tax shall, upon advance request of such taxpayer, allow the taxpayer to make an audio recording of such interview at the taxpayer’s own expense and with the taxpayer’s own equipment.

(2) Recording by IRS officer or employee An officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service may record any interview described in paragraph (1) if such officer or employee—

(A) informs the taxpayer of such recording prior to the interview, and

(B) upon request of the taxpayer, provides the taxpayer with a transcript or copy of such recording but only if the taxpayer provides reimbursement for the cost of the transcription and reproduction of such transcript or copy.

(b) Safeguards

(1) Explanations of processes An officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service shall before or at an initial interview provide to the taxpayer—

(A) in the case of an in-person interview with the taxpayer relating to the determination of any tax, an explanation of the audit process and the taxpayer’s rights under such process, or

(B) in the case of an in-person interview with the taxpayer relating to the collection of any tax, an explanation of the collection process and the taxpayer’s rights under such process.

(2) Right of consultation If the taxpayer clearly states to an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service at any time during any interview (other than an interview initiated by an administrative summons issued under subchapter A of chapter 78) that the taxpayer wishes to consult with an attorney, certified public accountant, enrolled agent, enrolled actuary, or any other person permitted to represent the taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service, such officer or employee shall suspend such interview regardless of whether the taxpayer may have answered one or more questions.

(c) Representatives holding power of attorney Any attorney, certified public accountant, enrolled agent, enrolled actuary, or any other person permitted to represent the taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service who is not disbarred or suspended from practice before the Internal Revenue Service and who has a written power of attorney executed by the taxpayer may be authorized by such taxpayer to represent the taxpayer in any interview described in subsection (a). An officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service may not require a taxpayer to accompany the representative in the absence of an administrative summons issued to the taxpayer under subchapter A of chapter 78. Such an officer or employee, with the consent of the immediate supervisor of such officer or employee, may notify the taxpayer directly that such officer or employee believes such representative is responsible for unreasonable delay or hindrance of an Internal Revenue Service examination or investigation of the taxpayer.

(d) Section not to apply to certain investigations This section shall not apply to criminal investigations or investigations relating to the integrity of any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–647, title VI, § 6228(a)](/us/pl/100/647/tVI/s6228/a), Nov. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 3731](/us/stat/102/3731), § 7520; renumbered § 7521, [Pub. L. 101–239, title VII, § 7816(u)(1)](/us/pl/101/239/tVII/s7816/u/1), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2423](/us/stat/103/2423).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Another section 7521 was renumbered [section 7522 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s7522).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 100–647, title VI, § 6228(d)](/us/pl/100/647/tVI/s6228/d), Nov. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 3732](/us/stat/102/3732), provided that: “The amendments made by subsections (a) and (c) [enacting this section] shall apply to interviews conducted on or after the date which is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 10, 1988].”
