---
title: "§ 1107. Rights, powers, and duties of debtor in possession"
identifier: "USC-T11-S1107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section1107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2628](/us/stat/92/2628); [Pub. L. 98–353, title III, § 503](/us/pl/98/353/tIII/s503), July 10, 1984, [98 Stat. 384](/us/stat/98/384).)"
---
# § 1107. Rights, powers, and duties of debtor in possession

##### § 1107. Rights, powers, and duties of debtor in possession

(a) Subject to any limitations on a trustee serving in a case under this chapter, and to such limitations or conditions as the court prescribes, a debtor in possession shall have all the rights, other than the right to compensation under [section 330 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s330), and powers, and shall perform all the functions and duties, except the duties specified in sections 1106(a)(2), (3), and (4) of this title, of a trustee serving in a case under this chapter.

(b) Notwithstanding [section 327(a) of this title](/us/usc/t11/s327/a), a person is not disqualified for employment under [section 327 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s327) by a debtor in possession solely because of such person’s employment by or representation of the debtor before the commencement of the case.

*([Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2628](/us/stat/92/2628); [Pub. L. 98–353, title III, § 503](/us/pl/98/353/tIII/s503), July 10, 1984, [98 Stat. 384](/us/stat/98/384).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### legislative statements

The House amendment adopts section 1107(b) of the Senate amendment which clarifies a point not covered by the House bill.

#### senate report no. 95–989

This section places a debtor in possession in the shoes of a trustee in every way. The debtor is given the rights and powers of a chapter 11 trustee. He is required to perform the functions and duties of a chapter 11 trustee (except the investigative duties). He is also subject to any limitations on a chapter 11 trustee, and to such other limitations and conditions as the court prescribes cf. *Wolf v. Weinstein*, 372 U.S. 633, 649–650 (1963).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–353](/us/pl/98/353) substituted “on a trustee serving in a case” for “on a trustee”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–353](/us/pl/98/353) effective with respect to cases filed 90 days after July 10, 1984, see [section 552(a) of Pub. L. 98–353](/us/pl/98/353/s552/a), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).
