---
title: "§ 10321. Regional information sharing systems grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1301](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1301), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6101(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6101/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4340](/us/stat/102/4340); amended [Pub. L. 107–56, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/107/56/tVII/s701), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 374](/us/stat/115/374); [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1114](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1114), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3103](/us/stat/119/3103); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 252(a)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s252/a), July 29, 201"
---
# § 10321. Regional information sharing systems grants

##### § 10321. Regional information sharing systems grants

(a) Authority of Director The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance is authorized to make grants and enter into contracts with State, tribal, and local criminal justice agencies and nonprofit organizations for the purposes of identifying, targeting, and removing criminal conspiracies and activities and terrorist conspiracies and activities spanning jurisdictional boundaries.

(b) Purposes Grants and contracts awarded under this subchapter shall be made for—

(1) maintaining and operating regional information sharing systems that are responsive to the needs of participating enforcement agencies in addressing multijurisdictional offenses and conspiracies, and that are capable of providing controlling input, dissemination, rapid retrieval, and systematized updating of information to authorized agencies;

(2) establishing and operating an analytical component to assist participating agencies and projects in the compilation, interpretation, and presentation of information provided to a project;

(3) establishing and maintaining a secure telecommunications system for regional information sharing between Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement agencies;

(4) establishing and operating secure information sharing systems to enhance the investigation and prosecution abilities of participating enforcement agencies in addressing multi-jurisdictional terrorist conspiracies and activities; and

(5) other programs designated by the Director that are designed to further the purposes of this subchapter.

(c) Rules and regulations The Director is authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, including rules and regulations for submitting and reviewing applications.

(d) Authorization of appropriation to the Bureau of Justice Assistance There are authorized to be appropriated to the Bureau of Justice Assistance to carry out this section $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 and $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2003.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1301](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1301), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6101(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6101/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4340](/us/stat/102/4340); amended [Pub. L. 107–56, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/107/56/tVII/s701), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 374](/us/stat/115/374); [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1114](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1114), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3103](/us/stat/119/3103); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 252(a)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s252/a), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2299](/us/stat/124/2299).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796h of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796h), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Another [section 1301 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s1301), title VIII, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 237](/us/stat/82/237), amended [section 3731 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3731), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 1301 of title I of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1301), as added [Pub. L. 99–570, title I, § 1552(a)(3)](/us/pl/99/570/tI/s1552/a/3), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–41](/us/stat/100/3207-41), authorized Director to provide grants for drug law enforcement programs to eligible States and units of local government, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6101(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6101/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4340](/us/stat/102/4340).

Another prior [section 1301 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s1301) was renumbered section 2601 and is classified to [section 10541 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10541).

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211) inserted “, tribal,” after “State”.

2006—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1114(1)](/us/pl/109/162/s1114/1), inserted “regional” before “information sharing systems”.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1114(2)](/us/pl/109/162/s1114/2), amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (3) read as follows: “establishing and maintaining a telecommunication of the information sharing and analytical programs in clauses (1) and (2);”.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1114(3)](/us/pl/109/162/s1114/3), struck out “(5)” at end.

2001—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–56, § 701(1)](/us/pl/107/56/s701/1), inserted “and terrorist conspiracies and activities” after “criminal conspiracies and activities”.

Subsec. (b)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 107–56, § 701(2)](/us/pl/107/56/s701/2), added par. (4) and redesignated former par. (4) as (5).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 107–56, § 701(3)](/us/pl/107/56/s701/3), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction of 2010 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 252(b)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s252/b), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2299](/us/stat/124/2299), provided that: “Nothing in this section [amending this section] or any amendment made by this section— “(1) allows the grant to be made to, or used by, an entity for law enforcement activities that the entity lacks jurisdiction to perform; or “(2) has any effect other than to authorize, award, or deny a grant of funds to a federally recognized Indian tribe for the purposes described in the relevant grant program.”

[For definition of “Indian tribe” as used in [section 252(b) of Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211/s252/b), set out above, see [section 203(a) of Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211/s203/a), set out as a note under [section 2801 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s2801), Indians.]

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
