---
title: "§ 2044. Certain property for which marital deduction was previously allowed"
identifier: "USC-T26-S2044"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section2044"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 97–34, title IV, § 403(d)(3)(A)(i)](/us/pl/97/34/tIV/s403/d/3/A/i), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 304](/us/stat/95/304); amended [Pub. L. 97–448, title I, § 104(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/97/448/tI/s104/a/1/B), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2380](/us/stat/96/2380).)"
---
# § 2044. Certain property for which marital deduction was previously allowed

##### § 2044. Certain property for which marital deduction was previously allowed

(a) General rule The value of the gross estate shall include the value of any property to which this section applies in which the decedent had a qualifying income interest for life.

(b) Property to which this section applies This section applies to any property if—

(1) a deduction was allowed with respect to the transfer of such property to the decedent—

(A) under section 2056 by reason of subsection (b)(7) thereof, or

(B) under section 2523 by reason of subsection (f) thereof, and

(2) section 2519 (relating to dispositions of certain life estates) did not apply with respect to a disposition by the decedent of part or all of such property.

(c) Property treated as having passed from decedent For purposes of this chapter and chapter 13, property includible in the gross estate of the decedent under subsection (a) shall be treated as property passing from the decedent.

*(Added [Pub. L. 97–34, title IV, § 403(d)(3)(A)(i)](/us/pl/97/34/tIV/s403/d/3/A/i), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 304](/us/stat/95/304); amended [Pub. L. 97–448, title I, § 104(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/97/448/tI/s104/a/1/B), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2380](/us/stat/96/2380).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2044 was renumbered [section 2045 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2045).

#### Amendments

1983—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 97–448](/us/pl/97/448) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1983 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–448](/us/pl/97/448) effective, except as otherwise provided, as if it had been included in the provision of the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, [Pub. L. 97–34](/us/pl/97/34), to which such amendment relates, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 97–448](/us/pl/97/448/s109), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1).

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to estates of decedents dying after Dec. 31, 1981, see [section 403(e) of Pub. L. 97–34](/us/pl/97/34/s403/e), set out as an Effective Date of 1981 Amendment note under [section 2056 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2056).
