---
title: "§ 1056. Compensation of Advisory Board"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1056"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1056"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–758, § 6](/us/pl/87/758/s6), Oct. 9, 1962, [76 Stat. 754](/us/stat/76/754).)"
---
# § 1056. Compensation of Advisory Board

##### § 1056. Compensation of Advisory Board

Members of the Advisory Board, other than members appointed under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (a) of [section 1055 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1055), shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of the duties vested in the Board. Members of the Board appointed under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (a) of [section 1055 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1055) may each receive $50 per diem when engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Board, in addition to reimbursement for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of such duties.

*([Pub. L. 87–758, § 6](/us/pl/87/758/s6), Oct. 9, 1962, [76 Stat. 754](/us/stat/76/754).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Boards

Advisory boards in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Officers and Employees.
