---
title: "§ 1902. Procedures applicable to purchases below micro-purchase threshold"
identifier: "USC-T41-S1902"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section1902"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "41"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3720](/us/stat/124/3720); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title II, § 217(b)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tII/s217/b), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2051](/us/stat/130/2051); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVIII/s806/a), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1456](/us/stat/131/1456); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 812(a)(2)(C)(ix), 821(b), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1847](/us/stat/132/1847), "
---
# § 1902. Procedures applicable to purchases below micro-purchase threshold

##### § 1902. Procedures applicable to purchases below micro-purchase threshold

(a) Definition.—

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, for purposes of this section, the micro-purchase threshold is $10,000.

(2) For purposes of this section, the micro-purchase threshold for procurement activities administered under sections 6303 through 6305 of title 31 by institutions of higher education (as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001(a)](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a)), or related or affiliated nonprofit entities, or by nonprofit research organizations or independent research institutes is—

(A) $10,000; or

(B) such higher threshold as determined appropriate by the head of the relevant executive agency and consistent with clean audit findings under chapter 75 of title 31, internal institutional risk assessment, or State law.

(b) Compliance With Certain Requirements and Nonapplicability of Certain Authority.—

(1) Compliance with certain requirements.— The head of each executive agency shall ensure that procuring activities of that agency, when awarding a contract with a price exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, comply with the requirements of section 8(a) of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 637(a)](/us/usc/t15/s637/a)) and section 7102 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 ([Public Law 103–355](/us/pl/103/355), [15 U.S.C. 644](/us/usc/t15/s644) note).

(2) Nonapplicability of certain authority.— The authority under part 13.106(a)(1) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 C.F.R. 13.106(a)(1)), as in effect on November 18, 1993, to make purchases without securing competitive quotations does not apply to a purchase with a price exceeding the micro-purchase threshold.

(c) Nonapplicability of Certain Provisions.— An executive agency purchase with an anticipated value of the micro-purchase threshold or less is not subject to section 15(j) of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 644(j)](/us/usc/t15/s644/j)) and chapter 83 of this title.

(d) Purchases Without Competitive Quotations.— A purchase with a price not greater than the micro-purchase threshold may be made without obtaining competitive quotations if an employee of an executive agency or a member of the armed forces, authorized to do so, determines that the price for the purchase is reasonable.

(e) Equitable Distribution.— Purchases with a price not greater than the micro-purchase threshold shall be distributed equitably among qualified suppliers.

(f) Implementation Through Federal Acquisition Regulation.— This section shall be implemented through the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

*([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3720](/us/stat/124/3720); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title II, § 217(b)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tII/s217/b), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2051](/us/stat/130/2051); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVIII/s806/a), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1456](/us/stat/131/1456); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 812(a)(2)(C)(ix), 821(b), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1847](/us/stat/132/1847), 1853.)*

#### Adjustment of Micro-Purchase Threshold

For adjustment of dollar threshold pursuant to [section 1908 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s1908), see definition of micro-purchase threshold in Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1902 | 41:428. | Pub. L. 93–400, § 32, as added Pub. L. 103–355, title IV, § 4301(a), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3346; Pub. L. 104–106, title XLIII, §§ 4304(b)(4), (c)(3), 4311, Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 664, 671. |

#### Senate Revision Amendment

In subsecs. (a), (d), and (e), “$3,000” substituted for “$2,500” by S. Amdt. 4726 (111th Cong.). See 156 Cong. Rec. 18682 (2010).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–232, § 821(b)](/us/pl/115/232/s821/b), struck out “sections 2338 and 2339 of title 10 and” after “Except as provided in”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 115–232, § 812(a)(2)(C)(ix)](/us/pl/115/232/s812/a/2/C/ix), struck out “, [section 2323 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2323),” after “([15 U.S.C. 637(a)](/us/usc/t15/s637/a))”.

2017—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) substituted “$10,000” for “$3,000”.

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 217(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/s217/b/1), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “Except as provided in sections 2338 and 2339 of title 10 and paragraph (2) of this subsection, for purposes” for “For purposes” and added par. (2).

Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 217(b)(2)](/us/pl/114/328/s217/b/2), substituted “with a price not greater than the micro-purchase threshold” for “not greater than $3,000”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Convenience Checks

[Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, § 806(b)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVIII/s806/b), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1456](/us/stat/131/1456), provided that: “A convenience check may not be used for an amount in excess of one half of the micro-purchase threshold under [section 1902(a) of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s1902/a), United States Code, or a lower amount established by the head of the agency.”

#### Micro-Purchase Threshold for Procurement Solicitations by Research Institutions

[Pub. L. 114–329, div. A, title II, § 207](/us/pl/114/329/dA/tII/s207), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 3001](/us/stat/130/3001), provided that: “(a) Micro-purchase Threshold.—The micro-purchase threshold for procurement activities administered under sections 6303 through 6305 of title 31, United States Code, awarded by the Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the National Institute of Standards and Technology to institutions of higher education, or related or affiliated nonprofit entities, or to nonprofit research organizations or independent research institutes is—“(1) $10,000 (as adjusted periodically to account for inflation); or “(2) such higher threshold as determined appropriate by the head of the relevant executive agency and consistent with audit findings under chapter 75 of title 31, United States Code, internal institutional risk assessment, or State law. “(b) Uniform Guidance.—The Uniform Guidance shall be revised to conform with the requirements of this section. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ‘Uniform Guidance’ means the uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards contained in part 200 of title 2 of the Code of Federal Regulations.”

[For definitions of terms used in [section 207 of Pub. L. 114–329](/us/pl/114/329/s207), set out above, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 114–329](/us/pl/114/329/s2), set out as a note under [section 1862s of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1862s), The Public Health and Welfare.]

#### Micro-Purchase Guidelines

[Pub. L. 111–240, title I, § 1332](/us/pl/111/240/tI/s1332), Sept. 27, 2010, [124 Stat. 2541](/us/stat/124/2541), provided that: “Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 27, 2010], the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in coordination with the Administrator of General Services, shall issue guidelines regarding the analysis of purchase card expenditures to identify opportunities for achieving and accurately measuring fair participation of small business concerns in purchases in an amount not in excess of the micro-purchase threshold, as defined in section 32 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act ([former] [41 U.S.C. 428](/us/usc/t41/s428)) [now [41 U.S.C. 1902](/us/usc/t41/s1902)] (in this section referred to as ‘micro-purchases’), consistent with the national policy on small business participation in Federal procurements set forth in sections 2(a) and 15(g) of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 631(a)](/us/usc/t15/s631/a) and 644(g)), and dissemination of best practices for participation of small business concerns in micro-purchases.”

[For definition of “small business concern” as used in [section 1332 of Pub. L. 111–240](/us/pl/111/240/s1332), set out above, see [section 1001 of Pub. L. 111–240](/us/pl/111/240/s1001), set out as a note under [section 632 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s632), Commerce and Trade.]
