---
title: "§ 5363. Acquisitions"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5363"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5363"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title I, § 163](/us/pl/111/203/tI/s163), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1422](/us/stat/124/1422); [Pub. L. 115–174, title IV, § 401(c)(1)(E)](/us/pl/115/174/tIV/s401/c/1/E), May 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 1358](/us/stat/132/1358).)"
---
# § 5363. Acquisitions

##### § 5363. Acquisitions

(a) Acquisitions of banks; treatment as a bank holding company For purposes of [section 1842 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1842), a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors shall be deemed to be, and shall be treated as, a bank holding company.

(b) Acquisition of nonbank companies

(1) Prior notice for large acquisitions Notwithstanding [section 1843(k)(6)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1843/k/6/B), a bank holding company with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $250,000,000,000 or a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors shall not acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company (other than an insured depository institution) that is engaged in activities described in [section 1843(k) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1843/k) having total consolidated assets of $10,000,000,000 or more, without providing written notice to the Board of Governors in advance of the transaction.

(2) Exemptions The prior notice requirement in paragraph (1) shall not apply with regard to the acquisition of shares that would qualify for the exemptions in [section 1843(c) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1843/c) or [section 1843(k)(4)(E) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1843/k/4/E).

(3) Notice procedures The notice procedures set forth in [section 1843(j)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1843/j/1), without regard to [section 1843(j)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1843/j/3), shall apply to an acquisition of any company (other than an insured depository institution) by a bank holding company with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $250,000,000,000 or a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors, as described in paragraph (1), including any such company engaged in activities described in [section 1843(k) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1843/k).

(4) Standards for review In addition to the standards provided in [section 1843(j)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1843/j/2), the Board of Governors shall consider the extent to which the proposed acquisition would result in greater or more concentrated risks to global or United States financial stability or the United States economy.

(5) Hart-Scott-Rodino filing requirement Solely for purposes of [section 18a(c)(8) of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s18a/c/8), the transactions subject to the requirements of paragraph (1) shall be treated as if Board of Governors approval is not required.

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title I, § 163](/us/pl/111/203/tI/s163), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1422](/us/stat/124/1422); [Pub. L. 115–174, title IV, § 401(c)(1)(E)](/us/pl/115/174/tIV/s401/c/1/E), May 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 1358](/us/stat/132/1358).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b)(1), (3). [Pub. L. 115–174](/us/pl/115/174) substituted “$250,000,000,000” for “$50,000,000,000”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Except as otherwise provided, amendment by [Pub. L. 115–174](/us/pl/115/174) effective 18 months after May 24, 2018, see [section 401(d) of Pub. L. 115–174](/us/pl/115/174/s401/d), set out as a note under [section 5365 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5365).

#### Construction of 2018 Amendment

For construction of amendment by [Pub. L. 115–174](/us/pl/115/174) as applied to certain foreign banking organizations, see [section 401(g) of Pub. L. 115–174](/us/pl/115/174/s401/g), set out as a note under [section 5365 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5365).
