---
title: "§ 7886. Private, religious, and home schools"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7886"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7886"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8506](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8506), formerly title IX, § 9506, as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/107/110/tIX/s901), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1979](/us/stat/115/1979); renumbered title VIII, § 8506, [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8001(a)(5)](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8001/a/5), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2088](/us/stat/129/2088), 2089.)"
---
# § 7886. Private, religious, and home schools

##### § 7886. Private, religious, and home schools

(a) Applicability to nonrecipient private schools Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect any private school that does not receive funds or services under this chapter, nor shall any student who attends a private school that does not receive funds or services under this chapter be required to participate in any assessment referenced in this chapter.

(b) Applicability to home schools Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect a home school, whether or not a home school is treated as a home school or a private school under State law, nor shall any student schooled at home be required to participate in any assessment referenced in this chapter.

(c) Rule of construction on prohibition of Federal control over nonpublic schools Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit, allow, encourage, or authorize any Federal control over any aspect of any private, religious, or home school, whether or not a home school is treated as a private school or home school under State law. This section shall not be construed to bar private, religious, or home schools from participation in programs or services under this chapter.

(d) Rule of construction on State and local educational agency mandates Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require any State educational agency or local educational agency that receives funds under this chapter to mandate, direct, or control the curriculum of a private or home school, regardless or 11 So in original. Probably should be “of”. whether or not a home school is treated as a private school under state 22 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. law, nor shall any funds under this chapter be used for this purpose.

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8506](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8506), formerly title IX, § 9506, as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/107/110/tIX/s901), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1979](/us/stat/115/1979); renumbered title VIII, § 8506, [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8001(a)(5)](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8001/a/5), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2088](/us/stat/129/2088), 2089.)*
