---
title: "§ 1832. Assignment and reassignment of personnel"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1832"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1832"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–86, § 101(c)](/us/pl/96/86/s101/c), Oct. 12, 1979, [93 Stat. 657](/us/stat/93/657); [Pub. L. 100–202, § 106](/us/pl/100/202/s106), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1329–433](/us/stat/101/1329-433).)"
---
# § 1832. Assignment and reassignment of personnel

##### § 1832. Assignment and reassignment of personnel

Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, in order to improve the economic use of the personal services of his employees, the Architect of the Capitol is authorized on and after October 12, 1979, to assign and reassign, without increase or decrease in basic salary or wages, any person on the employment rolls of his Office, for personal services in any buildings, facilities or grounds under his jurisdiction or for personal services in connection with any project under his jurisdiction for which appropriations have been made and are available, whenever such action, in his opinion, will be most advantageous to the interest of or result in either specific or overall savings to the Government. Exceptions may be made where there are differences in equipment. No assignment or reassignment of personnel by the Architect of the Capitol pursuant to this provision shall operate in any respect to augment or decrease any general or specific appropriation.

*([Pub. L. 96–86, § 101(c)](/us/pl/96/86/s101/c), Oct. 12, 1979, [93 Stat. 657](/us/stat/93/657); [Pub. L. 100–202, § 106](/us/pl/100/202/s106), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1329–433](/us/stat/101/1329-433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 166b–6 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

Section is based on section 102 of title I of H.R. 4390 (Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1980), as incorporated by reference by [section 101(c) of Pub. L. 96–86](/us/pl/96/86/s101/c), and enacted into law by [section 106 of Pub. L. 100–202](/us/pl/100/202/s106).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 100–202, § 106](/us/pl/100/202/s106), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1329–433](/us/stat/101/1329-433), provided in part that this section is effective on date of enactment [Oct. 12, 1979] of the “pertinent joint resolution” making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 1980 [[Pub. L. 96–86](/us/pl/96/86)].
