---
title: "§ 8161. Protection of certain information"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8161"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8161"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–401, title II, § 261](/us/pl/109/401/tII/s261), Dec. 18, 2006, [120 Stat. 2751](/us/stat/120/2751).)"
---
# § 8161. Protection of certain information

##### § 8161. Protection of certain information

(a) Locations and facilities of direct national security significance No current or former Department of Defense or Department of Energy location, site, or facility of direct national security significance shall be declared or be subject to IAEA inspection under the Additional Protocol.

(b) Information of direct national security significance No information of direct national security significance regarding any location, site, or facility associated with activities of the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy shall be provided under the Additional Protocol.

(c) Restricted data Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit the communication or disclosure to the IAEA or IAEA employees of restricted data controlled by the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 ([42 U.S.C. 2011](/us/usc/t42/s2011) et seq.), including in particular “Restricted Data” as defined under paragraph (1) of section 11 y. of such Act ([42 U.S.C. 2014(y)](/us/usc/t42/s2014/y)).

(d) Classified information Nothing in this Act shall be construed to permit the communication or disclosure to the IAEA or IAEA employees of national security information and other classified information.

*([Pub. L. 109–401, title II, § 261](/us/pl/109/401/tII/s261), Dec. 18, 2006, [120 Stat. 2751](/us/stat/120/2751).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, referred to in subsec. (c), is [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 919](/us/stat/68/919), which is classified principally to chapter 23 (§ 2011 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2011) and Tables.

This Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is [Pub. L. 109–401](/us/pl/109/401), Dec. 18, 2006, [120 Stat. 2726](/us/stat/120/2726), which enacted this chapter and chapter 87 (§ 8001 et seq.) of this title and amended [section 2652c of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2652c) and [section 2153 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2153), The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
