---
title: "§ 5913. Rulemaking"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5913"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5913"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–27, § 13](/us/pl/119/27/s13), July 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 459](/us/stat/139/459).)"
---
# § 5913. Rulemaking

##### § 5913. Rulemaking

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after July 18, 2025, each primary Federal payment stablecoin regulator, the Secretary of the Treasury, and each State payment stablecoin regulator shall promulgate regulations to carry out this chapter through appropriate notice and comment rulemaking.

(b) Coordination Federal payment stablecoin regulators, the Secretary of the Treasury, and State payment stablecoin regulators should coordinate, as appropriate, on the issuance of any regulations to implement this chapter.

(c) Report required Not later than 180 days after the effective date of this chapter, each Federal banking agency shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives a report that confirms and describes the regulations promulgated to carry out this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 119–27, § 13](/us/pl/119/27/s13), July 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 459](/us/stat/139/459).)*

#### Delayed Effective Date of Section

For delayed effective date of section, see Effective Date note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 119–27](/us/pl/119/27), July 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 419](/us/stat/139/419), known as the Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act and also as the GENIUS Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5901 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5901) and Tables.

For the effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (c), see Effective Date note set out under [section 5901 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5901).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of the date that is 18 months after July 18, 2025, or the date that is 120 days after the date on which the primary Federal payment stablecoin regulators issue any final regulations implementing [Pub. L. 119–27](/us/pl/119/27), see [section 20 of Pub. L. 119–27](/us/pl/119/27/s20), set out as a note under [section 5901 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5901).
