---
title: "§ 7718. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7718"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7718"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–199, div. D, title VI, § 619](/us/pl/108/199/dD/tVI/s619), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 225](/us/stat/118/225).)"
---
# § 7718. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 7718. Authorization of appropriations

(a) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this chapter such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2004 and 2005.

(b) Allocation of funds

(1) In general The Corporation may allocate or transfer to any agency of the United States Government any of the funds available for carrying out this chapter. Such funds shall be available for obligation and expenditure for the purposes for which the funds were authorized, in accordance with authority granted in this chapter or under authority governing the activities of the United States Government agency to which such funds are allocated or transferred.

(2) Notification The Corporation shall notify the appropriate congressional committees not less than 15 days prior to an allocation or transfer of funds pursuant to paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 108–199, div. D, title VI, § 619](/us/pl/108/199/dD/tVI/s619), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 225](/us/stat/118/225).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), was in the original “this title”, meaning title VI of [Pub. L. 108–199, div. D](/us/pl/108/199/dD), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 211](/us/stat/118/211), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this title to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7701 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7701) and Tables.
