---
title: "§ 2212. Appointment and supervision of Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services"
identifier: "USC-T2-S2212"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section2212"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–437, title II, § 202](/us/pl/110/437/tII/s202), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4986](/us/stat/122/4986).)"
---
# § 2212. Appointment and supervision of Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services

##### § 2212. Appointment and supervision of Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services

(a) Appointment The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed by the Architect of the Capitol.

(b) Supervision and oversight The Chief Executive Officer shall report directly to the Architect of the Capitol and shall be subject to oversight by the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives.

(c) Removal Upon removal of the Chief Executive Officer, the Architect of the Capitol shall immediately provide notice of the removal to the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate. The notice shall include the reasons for the removal.

(d) Compensation The Chief Executive Officer shall be paid at an annual rate of pay equal to the annual rate of pay of the Deputy Architect of the Capitol.

(e) Transition for current Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services

(1) Appointment The individual who serves as the Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services under [section 1806 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1806) as of October 20, 2008, shall be the first Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services appointed by the Architect under this section.

(2) Omitted

*([Pub. L. 110–437, title II, § 202](/us/pl/110/437/tII/s202), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4986](/us/stat/122/4986).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1806 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1806), referred to in subsec. (e)(1), was repealed by [Pub. L. 110–437, title II, § 202(e)(2)](/us/pl/110/437/tII/s202/e/2), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4987](/us/stat/122/4987).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 202 of Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437/s202). Subsec. (e)(2) of [section 202 of Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437/s202) repealed [section 1806 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1806).
