---
title: "§ 3707. Temporary members of the Reserve; disability or death benefits"
identifier: "USC-T14-S3707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section3707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–322, § 1](/us/pl/96/322/s1), Aug. 4, 1980, [94 Stat. 1004](/us/stat/94/1004), § 707; amended [Pub. L. 97–136, § 8(a)](/us/pl/97/136/s8/a), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1706](/us/stat/95/1706); [Pub. L. 97–295, § 2(21)](/us/pl/97/295/s2/21), Oct. 12, 1982, [96 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/96/1303); [Pub. L. 103–296, title I, § 108(g)](/us/pl/103/296/tI/s108/g), Aug. 15, 1994, [108 Stat. 1487](/us/stat/108/1487); renumbered § 3707, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 118(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s118"
---
# § 3707. Temporary members of the Reserve; disability or death benefits

##### § 3707. Temporary members of the Reserve; disability or death benefits

(a) If a temporary member of the Reserve is physically injured, or dies as a result of physical injury, and the injury is incurred incident to service while performing active duty, or engaged in authorized travel to or from that duty, the law authorizing compensation for employees of the United States suffering injuries while in the performance of their duties, applies, subject to this section. That law shall be administered by the Secretary of Labor to the same extent as if the member was a civil employee of the United States and was injured in the performance of that duty. For benefit computation, regardless of pay or pay status, the member is considered to have had monthly pay of the monthly equivalent of the minimum rate of basic pay in effect for grade GS–9 of the General Schedule on the date the injury is incurred.

(b) This section does not apply if the workmen’s compensation law of a State, a territory, or another jurisdiction provides coverage because of a concurrent employment status of the temporary member. When the temporary member or a dependent is entitled to a benefit under this section and also to a concurrent benefit from the United States on account of the same disability or death, the temporary member or dependent, as appropriate, shall elect which benefit to receive.

(c) If a claim is filed under this section with the Secretary of Labor for benefits because of an alleged injury or death, the Secretary of Labor shall notify the Commandant who shall direct an investigation into the facts surrounding the alleged injury or death. The Commandant shall then certify to the Secretary of Labor whether or not the injured or deceased individual was a temporary member of the Reserve, the individual’s military status, and whether or not the injury or death was incurred incident to military service.

(d) A temporary member of the Reserve, who incurs a physical disability or contracts sickness or disease while performing a duty to which the member has been assigned by competent authority, is entitled to the same hospital treatment afforded a member of the Regular Coast Guard.

(e) In administering [section 8133 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8133), for an individual covered by this section—

(1) the percentages applicable to payments under that section are—

(A) 45 percent under subsection (a)(2) of that section, where the member died fully or currently insured under title II of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t42/s401) et seq.), with no additional payments for a child or children so long as the widow or widower remains eligible for payments under that subsection;

(B) 20 percent under subsection (a)(3) of that section, for one child, and 10 percent additional for each additional child, not to exceed a total of 75 percent, where the member died fully or currently insured under title II of the Social Security Act; and

(C) 25 percent under subsection (a)(4) of that section, if one parent was wholly dependent for support upon the deceased member at the time of the member’s death and the other was not dependent to any extent; 16 percent to each if both were wholly dependent; and if one was, or both were, partly dependent, a proportionate amount in the discretion of the Secretary of Labor;

(2) payments may not be made under subsection (a)(5) of that section; and

(3) the Secretary of Labor shall inform the Commissioner of Social Security whenever a claim is filed and eligibility for compensation is established under subsection (a)(2) or (a)(3) of [section 8133 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8133). The Commissioner of Social Security shall then certify to the Secretary of Labor whether or not the member concerned was fully or currently insured under title II of the Social Security Act at the time of the member’s death.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–322, § 1](/us/pl/96/322/s1), Aug. 4, 1980, [94 Stat. 1004](/us/stat/94/1004), § 707; amended [Pub. L. 97–136, § 8(a)](/us/pl/97/136/s8/a), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1706](/us/stat/95/1706); [Pub. L. 97–295, § 2(21)](/us/pl/97/295/s2/21), Oct. 12, 1982, [96 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/96/1303); [Pub. L. 103–296, title I, § 108(g)](/us/pl/103/296/tI/s108/g), Aug. 15, 1994, [108 Stat. 1487](/us/stat/108/1487); renumbered § 3707, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 118(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s118/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4233](/us/stat/132/4233); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8505(a)(51), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4750](/us/stat/134/4750).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The law authorizing compensation for employees of the United States, referred to in subsec. (a), appears in subchapter I (§ 8101 et seq.) of chapter 81 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

The General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (a), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332).

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (e)(1)(A), (B), (3), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Title II of the Social Security Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 401 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 760 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s760) prior to the complete revision of former chapter 21 of this title by [Pub. L. 96–322](/us/pl/96/322).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8505(a)(51)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/s8505/a/51/A), substituted “individual” for “person” and “individual’s” for “person’s”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8505(a)(51)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s8505/a/51/B), substituted “an individual” for “a person” in introductory provisions.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 707 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s707) as this section.

1994—Subsec. (e)(3). [Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296) substituted “Commissioner of Social Security” for “Secretary of Health and Human Services” in two places.

1982—Subsec. (e)(1). [Pub. L. 97–295, § 2(21)(A)](/us/pl/97/295/s2/21/A), substituted “percent” for “per centum” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (e)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 97–295, § 2(21)(B)](/us/pl/97/295/s2/21/B), inserted “([42 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t42/s401) et seq.)” after “Social Security Act”.

1981—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 97–136](/us/pl/97/136) substituted “monthly pay of the monthly equivalent of the minimum rate of basic pay in effect for grade GS–9 of the General Schedule on the date the injury is incurred” for “monthly pay of $600”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296) effective Mar. 31, 1995, see [section 110(a) of Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296/s110/a), set out as a note under [section 401 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s401), The Public Health and Welfare.

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

[Pub. L. 97–136, § 8(b)](/us/pl/97/136/s8/b), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1706](/us/stat/95/1706), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply only with respect to payments for benefits under section 707(a) [now 3707(a)] of title 14, United States Code, for months beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 29, 1981].”
