---
title: "§ 3919. Exercise of rights under chapter not to affect certain future financial transactions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3919"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3919"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title I, § 108, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2840](/us/stat/117/2840); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1742(c)(3)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1742/c/3), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 681](/us/stat/137/681).)"
---
# § 3919. Exercise of rights under chapter not to affect certain future financial transactions

##### § 3919. Exercise of rights under chapter not to affect certain future financial transactions

(1) A determination by a lender or other person that the servicemember is unable to pay the civil obligation or liability in accordance with its terms.

(2) With respect to a credit transaction between a creditor and the servicemember—

(A) a denial or revocation of credit by the creditor;

(B) a change by the creditor in the terms of an existing credit arrangement; or

(C) a refusal by the creditor to grant credit to the servicemember in substantially the amount or on substantially the terms requested.

(3) An adverse report relating to the creditworthiness of the servicemember by or to a person engaged in the practice of assembling or evaluating consumer credit information.

(4) A refusal by an insurer to insure the servicemember.

(5) An annotation in a servicemember’s record by a creditor or a person engaged in the practice of assembling or evaluating consumer credit information, identifying the servicemember as a member of the National Guard or a reserve component or as a member of the Space Force.

(6) A change in the terms offered or conditions required for the issuance of insurance.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title I, § 108, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2840](/us/stat/117/2840); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1742(c)(3)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1742/c/3), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 681](/us/stat/137/681).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 518 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 108 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. I, as added [Pub. L. 102–12, § 7](/us/pl/102/12/s7), Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 38](/us/stat/105/38), related to the effect of certain future financial transactions on the exercise of rights, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189).

#### Amendments

2023—Par. (5). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) inserted “or as a member of the Space Force” before period at end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
