---
title: "§ 1131–1. Institutional development"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1131–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1131–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title VI, § 622](/us/pl/89/329/tVI/s622), as added [Pub. L. 105–244, title VI, § 603(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/244/tVI/s603/b/2), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1784](/us/stat/112/1784); amended [Pub. L. 110–315, title VI, § 613](/us/pl/110/315/tVI/s613), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3340](/us/stat/122/3340); [Pub. L. 111–39, title VI, § 601(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/39/tVI/s601/a/2), July 1, 2009, [123 Stat. 1954](/us/stat/123/1954).)"
---
# § 1131–1. Institutional development

##### § 1131–1. Institutional development

(a) In general The Institute shall award grants, from amounts available to the Institute for each fiscal year, to historically Black colleges and universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, tribally controlled colleges or universities, and minority institutions, to enable such colleges, universities, and institutions to strengthen international affairs, international business, and foreign language study programs, including the teaching of foreign languages, at such colleges, universities, and institutions, respectively, which may include collaboration with institutions of higher education that receive funding under this subchapter.

(b) Application No grant may be made by the Institute unless an application is made by the college, university, or institution at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Institute may require.

(c) Definitions In this section—

(1) the term “Hispanic-serving institution” has the meaning given the term in [section 1101a of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1101a); and

(2) the term “minority institution” has the meaning given the term in [section 1067k of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1067k).

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title VI, § 622](/us/pl/89/329/tVI/s622), as added [Pub. L. 105–244, title VI, § 603(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/244/tVI/s603/b/2), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1784](/us/stat/112/1784); amended [Pub. L. 110–315, title VI, § 613](/us/pl/110/315/tVI/s613), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3340](/us/stat/122/3340); [Pub. L. 111–39, title VI, § 601(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/39/tVI/s601/a/2), July 1, 2009, [123 Stat. 1954](/us/stat/123/1954).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 622 of Pub. L. 89–329](/us/pl/89/329/s622) was renumbered section 623 and is classified to [section 1131a of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1131a).

Another prior [section 622 of Pub. L. 89–329](/us/pl/89/329/s622), title VI, as added [Pub. L. 96–374, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/96/374/tVI/s601/a), Oct. 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 1470](/us/stat/94/1470); amended [Pub. L. 99–498, title VI, § 614](/us/pl/99/498/tVI/s614), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1520](/us/stat/100/1520), defined terms used in this subchapter and was classified to [section 1132 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1132), prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 102–325](/us/pl/102/325). For definitions, see [section 1132 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1132).

Another prior [section 622 of Pub. L. 89–329](/us/pl/89/329/s622), title VI, Nov. 8, 1965, [79 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/79/1266), related to stipends for persons attending faculty development program institutes and was classified to [section 1132 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1132), prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 96–374](/us/pl/96/374).

#### Amendments

2009—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–39](/us/pl/111/39) inserted period at end.

2008—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–315, § 613(1)](/us/pl/110/315/s613/1), substituted “tribally controlled colleges or universities” for “Tribally Controlled Colleges or Universities” and “international affairs, international business, and foreign language study programs, including the teaching of foreign languages, at such colleges, universities, and institutions, respectively, which may include collaboration with institutions of higher education that receive funding under this subchapter” for “international affairs programs.”

Subsec. (c)(1) to (4). [Pub. L. 110–315, § 613(2)](/us/pl/110/315/s613/2), redesignated pars. (2) and (4) as (1) and (2), respectively, and struck out former pars. (1) and (3), which defined “historically Black college and university” and “Tribally Controlled College or University”, respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–39](/us/pl/111/39) effective as if enacted on the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–315](/us/pl/110/315) (Aug. 14, 2008), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 111–39](/us/pl/111/39/s3), set out as a note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 1998 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).
