---
title: "§ 4084. Articles exempt from relief"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4084"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4084"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 324](/us/pl/109/53/tIII/s324), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 494](/us/stat/119/494).)"
---
# § 4084. Articles exempt from relief

##### § 4084. Articles exempt from relief

(1) import relief previously has been provided under this part with respect to that article; or

(2) the article is subject to import relief under—

(A) part A; or

(B) chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [[19 U.S.C. 2251](/us/usc/t19/s2251) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 324](/us/pl/109/53/tIII/s324), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 494](/us/stat/119/494).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107/d), see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Part A, referred to in par. (2)(A), was in the original “subtitle A”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 311–316) of title III of [Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 488](/us/stat/119/488), which enacted part A of this subchapter and amended [section 2252 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2252). For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Tables.

The Trade Act of 1974, referred to in par. (2)(B), is [Pub. L. 93–618](/us/pl/93/618), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 1978](/us/stat/88/1978). Chapter 1 of title II of the Act is classified generally to part 1 (§ 2251 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 12 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2101) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107), set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4001).
