---
title: "§ 1688. Neutrality with respect to abortion"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1688"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1688"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–318, title IX, § 909](/us/pl/92/318/tIX/s909), as added [Pub. L. 100–259, § 3(b)](/us/pl/100/259/s3/b), Mar. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 29](/us/stat/102/29).)"
---
# § 1688. Neutrality with respect to abortion

##### § 1688. Neutrality with respect to abortion

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require or prohibit any person, or public or private entity, to provide or pay for any benefit or service, including the use of facilities, related to an abortion. Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit a penalty to be imposed on any person or individual because such person or individual is seeking or has received any benefit or service related to a legal abortion.

*([Pub. L. 92–318, title IX, § 909](/us/pl/92/318/tIX/s909), as added [Pub. L. 100–259, § 3(b)](/us/pl/100/259/s3/b), Mar. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 29](/us/stat/102/29).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title IX of [Pub. L. 92–318](/us/pl/92/318) which enacted this chapter and amended sections 203 and 213 of Title 29, Labor, and sections 2000c, 2000c–6, 2000c–9, and 2000h–2 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of title IX to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1681) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction

This section not to be construed to extend application of Education Amendments of 1972, [Pub. L. 92–318](/us/pl/92/318), to ultimate beneficiaries of Federal financial assistance excluded from coverage before Mar. 22, 1988, see [section 7 of Pub. L. 100–259](/us/pl/100/259/s7), set out as a note under [section 1687 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1687).

#### Abortion Neutrality

[Pub. L. 100–259, § 8](/us/pl/100/259/s8), Mar. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 31](/us/stat/102/31), provided that: “No provision of this Act or any amendment made by this Act [see Short Title of 1988 Amendment note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1681)] shall be construed to force or require any individual or hospital or any other institution, program, or activity receiving Federal Funds [sic] to perform or pay for an abortion.”
