---
title: "§ 410cc–34. Acquisition and disposition of property"
identifier: "USC-T16-S410cc–34"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section410cc–34"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–290, title III, § 304](/us/pl/95/290/tIII/s304), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 302](/us/stat/92/302).)"
---
# § 410cc–34. Acquisition and disposition of property

##### § 410cc–34. Acquisition and disposition of property

(a) Acquisition of specified property; manner of acquisition

(1) The Commission may acquire any property designated in paragraph (3) of this subsection, any property described in [section 410cc–32(d)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s410cc–32/d/1), or any interest therein, by donation, by purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or by condemnation in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection.

(2) Only properties within the park or property designated in paragraph (3) of this subsection may be acquired by the Commission by condemnation. The Commission may initiate condemnation proceedings only after making every reasonable effort to acquire any such property through negotiations and purchase and consulting with the city council of Lowell. No lands or interests therein may be acquired by the Commission by condemnation without the approval of the Secretary.

(3) The Commission may acquire in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection the following properties, or any interest therein:

(A) World Furniture Building, 125 Central Street; and

(B) The Martin Building, 102–122 Central Street.

(b) Sale or lease of specified property; conditions The Commission, with the approval of the Secretary, may sell or lease any property which it acquires under subsection (a) of this section subject to such deed restrictions or other conditions as the Commission deems appropriate to carry out the purpose of this subchapter.

(c) Agreement for disposal of specified property to Commonwealth of Massachusetts; purposes of transfers Pursuant to a written agreement between the Commission and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Commission, with the approval of the Secretary, may sell, donate, lease, or in any other manner the Commission and the Secretary deem appropriate make available to the Commonwealth any property which the Commission has acquired under subsection (a) of this section in order to provide for the administration or maintenance of such property by the Commonwealth in a manner consistent with the purpose of this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 95–290, title III, § 304](/us/pl/95/290/tIII/s304), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 302](/us/stat/92/302).)*
