---
title: "§ 254b–1. State grants to health care providers who provide services to a high percentage of medically underserved populations or other special populations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S254b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section254b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5606](/us/pl/111/148/tV/s5606), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10501(k)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10501/k), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 999](/us/stat/124/999).)"
---
# § 254b–1. State grants to health care providers who provide services to a high percentage of medically underserved populations or other special populations

##### § 254b–1. State grants to health care providers who provide services to a high percentage of medically underserved populations or other special populations

(a) In general A State may award grants to health care providers who treat a high percentage, as determined by such State, of medically underserved populations or other special populations in such State.

(b) Source of funds A grant program established by a State under subsection (a) may not be established within a department, agency, or other entity of such State that administers the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 1396](/us/usc/t42/s1396) et seq.), and no Federal or State funds allocated to such Medicaid program, the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 1395](/us/usc/t42/s1395) et seq.), or the TRICARE program under chapter 55 of title 10 may be used to award grants or to pay administrative costs associated with a grant program established under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5606](/us/pl/111/148/tV/s5606), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10501(k)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10501/k), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 999](/us/stat/124/999).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Titles XVIII and XIX of the Act are classified generally to subchapters XVIII (§ 1395 et seq.) and XIX (§ 1396 et seq.), respectively, of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
