---
title: "§ 60105. State information regarding individuals who die in the custody of law enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T34-S60105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section60105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–242, § 2](/us/pl/113/242/s2), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2860](/us/stat/128/2860).)"
---
# § 60105. State information regarding individuals who die in the custody of law enforcement

##### § 60105. State information regarding individuals who die in the custody of law enforcement

(a) In general For each fiscal year after the expiration of the period specified in subsection (c)(1) in which a State receives funds for a program referred to in subsection (c)(2), the State shall report to the Attorney General, on a quarterly basis and pursuant to guidelines established by the Attorney General, information regarding the death of any person who is detained, under arrest, or is in the process of being arrested, is en route to be incarcerated, or is incarcerated at a municipal or county jail, State prison, State-run boot camp prison, boot camp prison that is contracted out by the State, any State or local contract facility, or other local or State correctional facility (including any juvenile facility).

(b) Information required The report required by this section shall contain information that, at a minimum, includes—

(1) the name, gender, race, ethnicity, and age of the deceased;

(2) the date, time, and location of death;

(3) the law enforcement agency that detained, arrested, or was in the process of arresting the deceased; and

(4) a brief description of the circumstances surrounding the death.

(c) Compliance and ineligibility

(1) Compliance date Each State shall have not more than 120 days from December 18, 2014, to comply with subsection (a), except that—

(A) the Attorney General may grant an additional 120 days to a State that is making good faith efforts to comply with such subsection; and

(B) the Attorney General shall waive the requirements of subsection (a) if compliance with such subsection by a State would be unconstitutional under the constitution of such State.

(2) Ineligibility for funds For any fiscal year after the expiration of the period specified in paragraph (1), a State that fails to comply with subsection (a), shall, at the discretion of the Attorney General, be subject to not more than a 10-percent reduction of the funds that would otherwise be allocated for that fiscal year to the State under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3750](/us/usc/t42/s3750) et seq.),11 See References in Text note below. whether characterized as the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Programs, the Local Government Law Enforcement Block Grants Program, the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, or otherwise.

(d) Reallocation Amounts not allocated under a program referred to in subsection (c)(2) to a State for failure to fully comply with subsection (a) shall be reallocated under that program to States that have not failed to comply with such subsection.

(e) Definitions In this section the terms “boot camp prison” and “State” have the meaning given those terms, respectively, in [section 10251(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10251/a).

(f) Study and report of information relating to deaths in custody

(1) Study required The Attorney General shall carry out a study of the information reported under subsection (b) and section 3(a) ^1 to—

(A) determine means by which such information can be used to reduce the number of such deaths; and

(B) examine the relationship, if any, between the number of such deaths and the actions of management of such jails, prisons, and other specified facilities relating to such deaths.

(2) Report Not later than 2 years after December 18, 2014, the Attorney General shall prepare and submit to Congress a report that contains the findings of the study required by paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 113–242, § 2](/us/pl/113/242/s2), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2860](/us/stat/128/2860).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197). Subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Act was classified generally to part A (§ 3750 et seq.) of subchapter V of chapter 46 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as part A (§ 10151 et seq.) of subchapter V of chapter 101 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

Section 3(a), referred to in subsec. (f)(1), is [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 113–242](/us/pl/113/242/s3/a), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2861](/us/stat/128/2861). [Section 3 of Pub. L. 113–242](/us/pl/113/242/s3) was editorially reclassified as a note under [section 4001 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4001), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13727 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13727), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
