---
title: "§ 3405. Plan requirements"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3405"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3405"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–477, § 6](/us/pl/102/477/s6), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2303](/us/stat/106/2303); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 7](/us/pl/115/93/s7), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2028](/us/stat/131/2028).)"
---
# § 3405. Plan requirements

##### § 3405. Plan requirements

(1) identify the programs to be integrated and consolidated;

(2) be consistent with the purposes of this chapter;

(3) describe—

(A) a comprehensive strategy identifying the full range of potential employment opportunities on and near the service area of the Indian tribe;

(B) the education, training, and related services to be provided to assist Indians to access those employment opportunities;

(C) the way in which services and program funds are to be integrated, consolidated, and delivered; and

(D) the results expected, including the expected number of program participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program, from the plan;

(4) identify the projected expenditures under the plan in a single budget covering all consolidated funds;

(5) identify any agency of the Indian tribe to be involved in the delivery of the services integrated under the plan;

(6) identify any statutory provisions, regulations, policies, or procedures that the Indian tribe believes need to be waived to implement the plan; and

(7) be approved by the governing body of the Indian tribe.

*([Pub. L. 102–477, § 6](/us/pl/102/477/s6), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2303](/us/stat/106/2303); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 7](/us/pl/115/93/s7), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2028](/us/stat/131/2028).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to plan requirements, consisting of eight pars.
