---
title: "§ 4370d. Percentage of Federal funding for organizations owned by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4370d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4370d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–389, title III](/us/pl/102/389/tIII), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1602](/us/stat/106/1602).)"
---
# § 4370d. Percentage of Federal funding for organizations owned by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals

##### § 4370d. Percentage of Federal funding for organizations owned by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals

The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall, on and after October 6, 1992, to the fullest extent possible, ensure that at least 8 per centum of Federal funding for prime and subcontracts awarded in support of authorized programs, including grants, loans, and contracts for wastewater treatment and leaking underground storage tanks grants, be made available to business concerns or other organizations owned or controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals (within the meaning of section 637(a)(5) and (6) of title 15), including historically black colleges and universities. For purposes of this section, economically and socially disadvantaged individuals shall be deemed to include women.

*([Pub. L. 102–389, title III](/us/pl/102/389/tIII), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1602](/us/stat/106/1602).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, and not as part of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 which comprises this chapter.
