---
title: "§ 13553. Energy subsidy study"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13553"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13553"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXX, § 3015](/us/pl/102/486/tXXX/s3015), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3129](/us/stat/106/3129).)"
---
# § 13553. Energy subsidy study

##### § 13553. Energy subsidy study

(a) In general The Secretary shall contract with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of energy subsidies that—

(1) are in effect on October 24, 1992; or

(2) have been in effect prior to October 24, 1992.

(b) Report to Congress Not later than 18 months after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress,11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. the results of such study to be accompanied by recommendations for legislation, if any.

(c) Contents

(1) In general The study shall identify and quantify the direct and indirect subsidies and other legal and institutional factors that influence decisions in the marketplace concerning fuels and energy technologies.

(2) Topics for examination The study shall examine—

(A) fuel and technology choices that are—

(i) available on October 24, 1992; or

(ii) reasonably foreseeable on October 24, 1992;

(B) production subsidies for the extraction of raw materials;

(C) subsidies encouraging investment in large capital projects;

(D) indemnification;

(E) fuel cycle subsidies, including waste disposal;

(F) government research and development support; and

(G) other relevant incentives and disincentives.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $500,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993 and 1994.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXX, § 3015](/us/pl/102/486/tXXX/s3015), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3129](/us/stat/106/3129).)*
