---
title: "§ 3410. Enforcement of orders and regulations"
identifier: "USC-T7-S3410"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section3410"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–113, title XVII, § 1711](/us/pl/95/113/tXVII/s1711), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/91/1038).)"
---
# § 3410. Enforcement of orders and regulations

##### § 3410. Enforcement of orders and regulations

(a) Jurisdiction; reference of civil actions to Attorney General The several district courts of the United States are vested with jurisdiction specifically to enforce, and to prevent and restrain any person from violating any order or regulation made or issued pursuant to this chapter. Any civil action authorized to be brought under this chapter shall be referred to the Attorney General for appropriate action: *Provided*, That nothing in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the Secretary to refer to the Attorney General minor violations of this chapter whenever the Secretary believes that the administration and enforcement of the program would be adequately served by suitable written notice or warning to any person committing such violation.

(b) Penalties Any end product manufacturer or other person who willfully violates any provision of any order issued by the Secretary under this chapter, or who willfully fails or refuses to remit any assessment or fee duly required thereunder, shall be liable to a penalty of not more than $1,000 for each such offense which shall accrue to the United States and may be recovered in a civil suit brought by the United States.

(c) Other remedies The remedies provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be in addition to, and not exclusive of, the remedies otherwise provided at law or in equity.

*([Pub. L. 95–113, title XVII, § 1711](/us/pl/95/113/tXVII/s1711), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/91/1038).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1977, see [section 1901 of Pub. L. 95–113](/us/pl/95/113/s1901), set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under [section 1307 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1307).
