---
title: "§ 2923. Authorization of appropriations for the Department of Energy programs to prevent weapons of mass destruction proliferation and terrorism"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2923"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2923"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XVIII, § 1833](/us/pl/110/53/tXVIII/s1833), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 497](/us/stat/121/497).)"
---
# § 2923. Authorization of appropriations for the Department of Energy programs to prevent weapons of mass destruction proliferation and terrorism

##### § 2923. Authorization of appropriations for the Department of Energy programs to prevent weapons of mass destruction proliferation and terrorism

(a) In general Subject to subsection (b), there are authorized to be appropriated to Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2008 to accelerate, expand, and strengthen the following programs to prevent weapons of mass destruction (WMD) proliferation and terrorism:

(1) The Global Threat Reduction Initiative.

(2) The Nonproliferation and International Security program.

(3) The International Materials Protection, Control and Accounting program.

(4) The Nonproliferation and Verification Research and Development program.

(b) Limitation The sums appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) may not exceed the amounts authorized to be appropriated by any national defense authorization Act for fiscal year 2008 (whether enacted before or after August 3, 2007) to Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation for such purposes.

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XVIII, § 1833](/us/pl/110/53/tXVIII/s1833), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 497](/us/stat/121/497).)*
