---
title: "§ 2272. Conditions on furnishing assistance"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2272"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2272"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 462, as added [Pub. L. 99–83, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/99/83/tVII/s701), Aug. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 235](/us/stat/99/235).)"
---
# § 2272. Conditions on furnishing assistance

##### § 2272. Conditions on furnishing assistance

The President shall ensure that assistance authorized by this chapter and the Arms Export Control Act [[22 U.S.C. 2751](/us/usc/t22/s2751) et seq.] to Central American countries is furnished in a manner which fosters demonstrated progress toward and commitment to the objectives set forth in [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2271). Where necessary to achieve this purpose, the President shall impose conditions on the furnishing of such assistance. In carrying out this section, the President shall consult with the Congress in regard to progress toward the objectives set forth in [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2271), and any conditions imposed on the furnishing of assistance in furtherance of those objectives.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 462, as added [Pub. L. 99–83, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/99/83/tVII/s701), Aug. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 235](/us/stat/99/235).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424), known as the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

The Arms Export Control Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/82/1320), which is classified principally to chapter 39 (§ 2751 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2751 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2751) and Tables.

#### Codification

Another [section 462 of Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195/s462) is classified to [section 2282 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2282).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
