---
title: "§ 4724. Trade shows"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4724"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4724"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–418, title II, § 2304](/us/pl/100/418/tII/s2304), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1343](/us/stat/102/1343).)"
---
# § 4724. Trade shows

##### § 4724. Trade shows

(a) Authority of Secretary of Commerce In order to facilitate exporting by United States businesses, the Secretary of Commerce shall provide assistance for trade shows in the United States which bring together representatives of United States businesses seeking to export goods or services produced in the United States and representatives of foreign companies or governments seeking to buy such goods or services from these United States businesses.

(b) Recipients of assistance Assistance under subsection (a) may be provided to—

to provide the services necessary to operate trade shows described in subsection (a).

(1) nonprofit industry organizations,

(2) trade associations,

(3) foreign trade zones, and

(4) private industry firms or groups of firms in cases where no entity described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) represents that industry,

(c) Assistance to small businesses In providing assistance under this section, the Secretary of Commerce shall, in consultation with the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, make special efforts to facilitate participation by small businesses and companies new to export.

(d) Uses of assistance Funds appropriated to carry out this section shall be used to—

(1) identify potential participants for trade show organizers,

(2) provide information on trade shows to potential participants,

(3) supply language services for participants, and

(4) provide information on trade shows to small businesses and companies new to export.

(e) Definitions As used in this section—

(1) the term “United States business” means—

(A) a United States citizen;

(B) a corporation, partnership, or other association created under the laws of the United States or of any State (including the District of Columbia or any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States); or

(C) a foreign corporation, partnership, or other association, more than 95 percent of which is owned by persons described in subparagraphs (A) and (B); and

(2) the term “small business” means any small business concern as defined under [section 632 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s632).

*([Pub. L. 100–418, title II, § 2304](/us/pl/100/418/tII/s2304), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1343](/us/stat/102/1343).)*
