---
title: "§ 163. Roll of membership of Indian tribes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S163"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section163"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 30, 1919, ch. 4, § 1](/us/act/1919-06-30/ch4/s1), [41 Stat. 9](/us/stat/41/9).)"
---
# § 163. Roll of membership of Indian tribes

##### § 163. Roll of membership of Indian tribes

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized, wherever in his discretion such action would be for the best interest of the Indians, to cause a final roll to be made of the membership of any Indian tribe; such rolls shall contain the ages and quantum of Indian blood, and when approved by the said Secretary are declared to constitute the legal membership of the respective tribes for the purpose of segregating the tribal funds as provided in section 162 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, and shall be conclusive both as to ages and quantum of Indian blood: *Provided*, That the foregoing shall not apply to the Five Civilized Tribes or to the Osage Tribe of Indians, or to the Chippewa Indians of Minnesota, or the Menominee Indians of Wisconsin.

*([June 30, 1919, ch. 4, § 1](/us/act/1919-06-30/ch4/s1), [41 Stat. 9](/us/stat/41/9).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 162 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s162), referred to in text, was repealed by [act June 24, 1938, ch. 648, § 2](/us/act/1938-06-24/ch648/s2), [52 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/52/1037). See [section 162a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s162a).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
