---
title: "§ 15108. National Towing Safety Advisory Committee"
identifier: "USC-T46-S15108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section15108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4285](/us/stat/132/4285).)"
---
# § 15108. National Towing Safety Advisory Committee

##### § 15108. National Towing Safety Advisory Committee

(a) Establishment.— There is established a National Towing Safety Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(b) Function.— The Committee shall advise the Secretary on matters relating to shallow-draft inland navigation, coastal waterway navigation, and towing safety.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The Committee shall consist of 18 members appointed by the Secretary in accordance with this section and section 15109 of this chapter.

(2) Expertise.— Each member of the Committee shall have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters relating to the function of the Committee.

(3) Representation.— Members of the Committee shall be appointed as follows:

(A) 7 members shall represent the barge and towing industry, reflecting a regional geographic balance.

(B) 1 member shall represent the offshore mineral and oil supply vessel industry.

(C) 1 member shall represent masters and pilots of towing vessels who hold active licenses and have experience on the Western Rivers and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway.

(D) 1 member shall represent masters of towing vessels in offshore service who hold active licenses.

(E) 1 member shall represent masters of active ship-docking or harbor towing vessels.

(F) 1 member shall represent licensed and unlicensed towing vessel engineers with formal training and experience.

(G) 2 members shall represent port districts, authorities, or terminal operators.

(H) 2 members shall represent shippers and, of the 2, 1 shall be engaged in the shipment of oil or hazardous materials by barge.

(I) 2 members shall represent the general public.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4285](/us/stat/132/4285).)*
