---
title: "§ 392. Acquisition of privately owned lands"
identifier: "USC-T16-S392"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section392"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Feb. 27, 1920, ch. 89](/us/act/1920-02-27/ch89), §§ 1, 2, [41 Stat. 452](/us/stat/41/452), 453.)"
---
# § 392. Acquisition of privately owned lands

##### § 392. Acquisition of privately owned lands

The governor of the Territory of Hawaii is authorized to acquire, at the expense of the Territory of Hawaii, by exchange or otherwise, all privately owned lands lying within the boundaries of the Hawaii National Park as defined by [section 391 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s391), and all necessary perpetual easements and rights-of-way, or roadways, in fee simple, over or to said land or any part thereof, but the provisions of section 73 of an Act entitled “An Act to provide a government for the Territory of Hawaii,” approved April 30, 1900, as amended by an Act approved May 27, 1910, relating to exchanges of public lands shall not apply in the acquisition, by exchange, of the privately owned lands herein referred to.

*([Feb. 27, 1920, ch. 89](/us/act/1920-02-27/ch89), §§ 1, 2, [41 Stat. 452](/us/stat/41/452), 453.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 73 of an Act approved April 30, 1900, referred to in text, was classified to sections 663, 664, 665 to 677b, 1509 to 1512 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions. Those sections were omitted from the Code as obsolete.

#### Codification

Section 1 of act Feb. 27, 1920, is the source of that portion of this section preceding “but the provisions of section 73”; remainder being from section 2 of that Act.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Hawaiʻi Volcanoes National Park

Designation of portion of Hawaii National Park situated on island of Hawaii as Hawaiʻi Volcanoes National Park, effective Sept. 22, 1961, see [section 391d of this title](/us/usc/t16/s391d).

#### Haleakala̅ National Park

Establishment of detached portion of Hawaii National Park lying on island of Maui as Haleakala̅ National Park, effective July 1, 1961, see [section 396b of this title](/us/usc/t16/s396b).

#### Extension of Application

[Act Apr. 11, 1928, ch. 359, § 2](/us/act/1928-04-11/ch359/s2), [45 Stat. 426](/us/stat/45/426), extended provisions of this section and made them applicable to lands added to the park and included within boundary established by [section 391 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s391).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Admission of Hawaii as State

Admission of Hawaii into the Union was accomplished Aug. 21, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3309, Aug. 21, 1959, 24 F.R. 6868, 73 Stat. c74, as required by sections 1 and 7(c) of [Pub. L. 86–3](/us/pl/86/3), Mar. 18, 1959, [73 Stat. 4](/us/stat/73/4), set out as notes preceding [section 491 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s491), Territories and Insular Possessions.
