---
title: "§ 6914. Grants for discarded tire disposal"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6914"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6914"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–272, title II, § 2004](/us/pl/89/272/tII/s2004), as added [Pub. L. 94–580, § 2](/us/pl/94/580/s2), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2805](/us/stat/90/2805).)"
---
# § 6914. Grants for discarded tire disposal

##### § 6914. Grants for discarded tire disposal

(a) Grants The Administrator shall make available grants equal to 5 percent of the purchase price of tire shredders (including portable shredders attached to tire collection trucks) to those eligible applicants best meeting criteria promulgated under this section. An eligible applicant may be any private purchaser, public body, or public-private joint venture. Criteria for receiving grants shall be promulgated under this section and shall include the policy to offer any private purchaser the first option to receive a grant, the policy to develop widespread geographic distribution of tire shredding facilities, the need for such facilities within a geographic area, and the projected risk and viability of any such venture. In the case of an application under this section from a public body, the Administrator shall first make a determination that there are no private purchasers interested in making an application before approving a grant to a public body.

(b) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated $750,000 for each of the fiscal years 1978 and 1979 to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 89–272, title II, § 2004](/us/pl/89/272/tII/s2004), as added [Pub. L. 94–580, § 2](/us/pl/94/580/s2), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2805](/us/stat/90/2805).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Administrator or other official of Environmental Protection Agency under this chapter to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see note set out under [section 6903 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6903).
