---
title: "§ 1911. General Counsel to the Chief of Police and the United States Capitol Police"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1911"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1911"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–145, § 3(a)](/us/pl/111/145/s3/a), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 51](/us/stat/124/51).)"
---
# § 1911. General Counsel to the Chief of Police and the United States Capitol Police

##### § 1911. General Counsel to the Chief of Police and the United States Capitol Police

(1) In general There shall be within the United States Capitol Police the General Counsel to the Chief of Police and the United States Capitol Police (in this subsection referred to as the “General Counsel”), who shall report to and serve at the pleasure of the Chief of the United States Capitol Police.

(2) Appointment The General Counsel shall be appointed by the Chief of the Capitol Police in accordance with [section 1907(e)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1907/e/1) (as amended by section 2(a)(4)),11 See References in Text note below. after consultation with the Capitol Police Board, without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the position.

(3) Compensation

(A) In general Subject to subparagraph (B), the annual rate of pay for the General Counsel shall be fixed by the Chief of the Capitol Police.

(B) Limitation The annual rate of pay for the General Counsel may not exceed an annual rate equal to $1,000 less than the annual rate of pay in effect for the Chief of the Capitol Police.

(4) Omitted

(5) No effect on current General Counsel Nothing in this section or the amendments made by this section may be construed to affect the status of the individual serving as the General Counsel to the Chief of Police and the United States Capitol Police as of March 4, 2010.

*([Pub. L. 111–145, § 3(a)](/us/pl/111/145/s3/a), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 51](/us/stat/124/51).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 2(a)(4), referred to in par. (2), means [section 2(a)(4) of Pub. L. 111–145](/us/pl/111/145/s2/a/4).

For the amendments made by this section, referred to in par. (5), see Codification note below.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of subsec. (a) of [section 3 of Pub. L. 111–145](/us/pl/111/145/s3). Subsec. (a)(4) of [section 3 of Pub. L. 111–145](/us/pl/111/145/s3) repealed [section 84–2 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s84–2), now [section 5521 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5521), and provisions set out as a note under [section 1901 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1901).
