---
title: "§ 2014. Training and technical assistance for recipients of certain financial assistance"
identifier: "USC-T38-S2014"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section2014"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title III, § 305(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIII/s305/b/1/B), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5471](/us/stat/136/5471).)"
---
# § 2014. Training and technical assistance for recipients of certain financial assistance

##### § 2014. Training and technical assistance for recipients of certain financial assistance

(a) In General.— The Secretary shall provide training and technical assistance to recipients of grants under sections 2011 and 2013 of this title and recipients of per diem payments under sections 2012 and 2061 of this title regarding the planning, development, and provision of services for which the grant or payment is made.

(b) Provision of Training and Technical Assistance.— The Secretary may provide training and technical assistance under subsection (a) directly or through grants or contracts with such public or nonprofit private entities as the Secretary considers appropriate.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title III, § 305(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIII/s305/b/1/B), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5471](/us/stat/136/5471).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2014 was renumbered [section 2016 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s2016).

Another prior section 2014 was renumbered [section 4214 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4214).

Another prior section 2014 was renumbered [section 4105 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4105).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Use of Amounts

[Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title III, § 305(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIII/s305/b/2), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5472](/us/stat/136/5472), provided that: “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide training and technical assistance under sections 2014 and 2015 of such title [meaning title 38, United States Code], as inserted by paragraph (1)(B), using amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Veterans Affairs on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 29, 2022].”
