---
title: "§ 6384. Employment and benefits protection"
identifier: "USC-T5-S6384"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section6384"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–3, title II, § 201(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/3/tII/s201/a/1), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 22](/us/stat/107/22).)"
---
# § 6384. Employment and benefits protection

##### § 6384. Employment and benefits protection

(a) Any employee who takes leave under section 6382 for the intended purpose of the leave shall be entitled, upon return from such leave—

(1) to be restored by the employing agency to the position held by the employee when the leave commenced; or

(2) to be restored to an equivalent position with equivalent benefits, pay, status, and other terms and conditions of employment.

(b) The taking of leave under section 6382 shall not result in the loss of any employment benefit accrued prior to the date on which the leave commenced.

(c) Except as otherwise provided by or under law, nothing in this section shall be construed to entitle any restored employee to—

(1) the accrual of any employment benefits during any period of leave; or

(2) any right, benefit, or position of employment other than any right, benefit, or position to which the employee would have been entitled had the employee not taken the leave.

(d) As a condition to restoration under subsection (a) for an employee who takes leave under section 6382(a)(1)(D), the employing agency may have a uniformly applied practice or policy that requires each such employee to receive certification from the health care provider of the employee that the employee is able to resume work.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an employing agency from requiring an employee on leave under section 6382 to report periodically to the employing agency on the status and intention of the employee to return to work.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–3, title II, § 201(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/3/tII/s201/a/1), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 22](/us/stat/107/22).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 6 months after Feb. 5, 1993, see [section 405(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–3](/us/pl/103/3/s405/b/1), set out as a note under [section 2601 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s2601), Labor.
