---
title: "§ 11703. Enforcement by the Attorney General"
identifier: "USC-T49-S11703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section11703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 845](/us/stat/109/845).)"
---
# § 11703. Enforcement by the Attorney General

##### § 11703. Enforcement by the Attorney General

(a) The Attorney General may, and on request of the Board shall, bring court proceedings to enforce this part, or a regulation or order of the Board or certificate issued under this part, and to prosecute a person violating this part or a regulation or order of the Board or certificate issued under this part.

(b) The United States Government may bring a civil action on behalf of a person to compel a rail carrier providing transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Board under this part to provide that transportation to that person in compliance with this part at the same rate charged, or on conditions as favorable as those given by the rail carrier, for like traffic under similar conditions to another person.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 845](/us/stat/109/845).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 11703, [Pub. L. 95–473](/us/pl/95/473), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1450](/us/stat/92/1450), related to authority of Attorney General and United States Government to bring civil actions to enforce this subtitle, prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a). See sections 11703, 14703, and 15903 of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
