---
title: "§ 6965. Reports to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6965"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6965"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title V, § 505](/us/pl/106/286/dB/tV/s505), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 904](/us/stat/114/904).)"
---
# § 6965. Reports to Congress

##### § 6965. Reports to Congress

(a) Frequency of reports Not later than the date that is 1 year after October 10, 2000, and not later than the end of each 1-year period thereafter, the Task Force shall submit to the Congress a report on the work of the Task Force during the preceding 1-year period.

(b) Contents of reports Each report under subsection (a) shall set forth, at a minimum—

(1) the number of allegations of violations of [section 1307 of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1307) with respect to products of the Peoples’ 11 So in original. Probably should be “People’s”. Republic of China that were investigated during the preceding 1-year period;

(2) the number of actual violations of [section 1307 of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1307) with respect to the products of the People’s Republic of China that were discovered during the preceding 1-year period;

(3) in the case of each attempted entry of products of the People’s Republic of China in violation of such [section 1307 of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1307) discovered during the preceding 1-year period—

(A) the identity of the exporter of the goods;

(B) the identity of the person or persons who attempted to sell the goods for export; and

(C) the identity of all parties involved in transshipment of the goods; and

(4) such other information as the Task Force considers useful in monitoring and enforcing compliance with [section 1307 of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1307).

*([Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title V, § 505](/us/pl/106/286/dB/tV/s505), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 904](/us/stat/114/904).)*
