---
title: "§ 5538. Net Expenses of Telecommunications Revolving Fund"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5538"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5538"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 102](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s102), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3174](/us/stat/118/3174).)"
---
# § 5538. Net Expenses of Telecommunications Revolving Fund

##### § 5538. Net Expenses of Telecommunications Revolving Fund

(a) Establishment There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a revolving fund for the House of Representatives to be known as the Net Expenses of Telecommunications Revolving Fund (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Revolving Fund”), consisting of funds deposited by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives from amounts provided by legislative branch offices to purchase, lease, obtain, and maintain the data and voice telecommunications services and equipment located in such offices.

(b) Use of amounts in Fund Amounts in the Revolving Fund shall be used by the Chief Administrative Officer without fiscal year limitation to purchase, lease, obtain, and maintain the data and voice telecommunications services and equipment of legislative branch offices.

(c) Transfer authority The Revolving Fund shall be treated as a category of allowances and expenses for purposes of [section 5507(a) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5507/a).

(d) , (e) Omitted

(f) Applicability This section and the amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2005 and each succeeding fiscal year, except that for purposes of making deposits into the Revolving Fund under subsection (a), the Chief Administrative Officer may deposit amounts provided by legislative branch offices during fiscal year 2004 or any succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 102](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s102), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3174](/us/stat/118/3174).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 112h of this title](/us/usc/t2/s112h) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is comprised of [section 102 of div. G of Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447/dG/s102). Subsecs. (d) and (e) of [section 102 of div. G of Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447/dG/s102) amended sections 5539 and 5537 of this title, respectively.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005, which is div. G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005.
