---
title: "§ 290l–4. Subscription of stock"
identifier: "USC-T22-S290l–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section290l–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–513, title V, § 562(c)(6)](/us/pl/101/513/tV/s562/c/6), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/104/2034).)"
---
# § 290l–4. Subscription of stock

##### § 290l–4. Subscription of stock

(a) Subscription authority

(1) In general The Secretary of the Treasury may subscribe on behalf of the United States to 100,000 shares of the capital stock of the Bank.

(2) Effectiveness of subscription commitment Any commitment to make such subscription shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided for in advance by appropriations Acts.

(b) Limitations on authorization of appropriations For payment by the Secretary of the Treasury of the subscription of the United States for shares described in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated $1,167,010,000 without fiscal year limitation.

(c) Disposition of net income distributions by Bank Any payment made to the United States by the Bank as a distribution of net income shall be covered into the Treasury as a miscellaneous receipt.

*([Pub. L. 101–513, title V, § 562(c)(6)](/us/pl/101/513/tV/s562/c/6), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/104/2034).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Subsecs. (a) to (c) were in the original (A) to (C), respectively, and pars. (1) and (2) of subsec. (a) were in the original (i) and (ii), respectively, and were editorially redesignated for purposes of codification.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### First General Capital Increase

[Pub. L. 105–118, title V, § 560(a)](/us/pl/105/118/tV/s560/a), Nov. 26, 1997, [111 Stat. 2425](/us/stat/111/2425), provided in part that the Secretary of the Treasury may, to effect the United States participation in the first general capital increase of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, subscribe to and make payment for 100,000 additional shares of the capital stock of the Bank on behalf of the United States, and authorized $285,772,500 for paid-in capital and $984,327,500 for callable capital of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to be appropriated without fiscal year limitation, subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations.
