---
title: "§ 5612. Establishment of demonstration project; selection of participating Indian tribes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5612"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5612"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–178, title II, § 203](/us/pl/114/178/tII/s203), June 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 433](/us/stat/130/433).)"
---
# § 5612. Establishment of demonstration project; selection of participating Indian tribes

##### § 5612. Establishment of demonstration project; selection of participating Indian tribes

(a) In general The Secretary shall establish and carry out an Indian trust asset management demonstration project, in accordance with this subchapter.

(b) Selection of participating Indian tribes

(1) In general An Indian tribe shall be eligible to participate in the project if—

(A) the Indian tribe submits to the Secretary an application under subsection (c); and

(B) the Secretary approves the application of the Indian tribe.

(2) Notice

(A) In general The Secretary shall provide a written notice to each Indian tribe approved to participate in the project.

(B) Contents A notice under subparagraph (A) shall include—

(i) a statement that the application of the Indian tribe has been approved by the Secretary; and

(ii) a requirement that the Indian tribe shall submit to the Secretary a proposed Indian trust asset management plan in accordance with [section 5613 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5613).

(c) Application

(1) In general To be eligible to participate in the project, an Indian tribe shall submit to the Secretary a written application in accordance with paragraph (2).

(2) Requirements The Secretary shall consider an application under this subsection only if the application—

(A) includes a copy of a resolution or other appropriate action by the governing body of the Indian tribe, as determined by the Secretary, in support of or authorizing the application;

(B) is received by the Secretary after June 22, 2016; and

(C) states that the Indian tribe is requesting to participate in the project.

(d) Duration The project—

(1) shall remain in effect for a period of 10 years after June 22, 2016; but

(2) may be extended at the discretion of the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 114–178, title II, § 203](/us/pl/114/178/tII/s203), June 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 433](/us/stat/130/433).)*
