---
title: "§ 1677c. Hearings"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1677c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1677c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 774, as added [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 101](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s101), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 186](/us/stat/93/186); amended [Pub. L. 98–573, title VI, § 616](/us/pl/98/573/tVI/s616), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3037](/us/stat/98/3037).)"
---
# § 1677c. Hearings

##### § 1677c. Hearings

(a) Investigation hearings

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), the administering authority and the Commission shall each hold a hearing in the course of an investigation upon the request of any party to the investigation before making a final determination under section 1671d or 1673d of this title.

(2) Exception If investigations are initiated under part I and part II of this subtitle regarding the same merchandise from the same country within 6 months of each other (but before a final determination is made in either investigation), the holding of a hearing by the Commission in the course of one of the investigations shall be treated as compliance with paragraph (1) for both investigations, unless the Commission considers that special circumstances require that a hearing be held in the course of each of the investigations. During any investigation regarding which the holding of a hearing is waived under this paragraph, the Commission shall allow any party to submit such additional written comment as it considers relevant.

(b) Procedures Any hearing required or permitted under this subtitle shall be conducted after notice published in the Federal Register, and a transcript of the hearing shall be prepared and made available to the public. The hearing shall not be subject to the provisions of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, or to section 702 of such title.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 774, as added [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 101](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s101), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 186](/us/stat/93/186); amended [Pub. L. 98–573, title VI, § 616](/us/pl/98/573/tVI/s616), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3037](/us/stat/98/3037).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573) designated existing provisions as par. (1), inserted “Except as provided in paragraph (2),”, and added par. (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573) effective Oct. 30, 1984, see [section 626(a) of Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573/s626/a), set out as a note under [section 1671 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671).
