---
title: "§ 8005. Eligibility for services"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8005"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8005"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–557, title IV, § 406](/us/pl/95/557/tIV/s406), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2107](/us/stat/92/2107).)"
---
# § 8005. Eligibility for services

##### § 8005. Eligibility for services

(a) Professional assessment committee for determination of eligibility The identification of project residents eligible to participate in a congregate services program assisted under this chapter, and the designation of the services appropriate to their individual functional abilities and needs, shall be made by a professional assessment committee. Such committee shall utilize procedures which insure that the process of determining eligibility of individuals for services under this title shall accord such individuals fair treatment and due process and a right of appeal of such determination of eligibility, and shall also assure the confidentiality of personal and medical records.

(b) Participation of other residents in meal services program Other residents may participate in a congregate meal service program assisted under this chapter if the local public housing agency or nonprofit corporation determines that the participation of these individuals will not adversely affect the cost-effectiveness or operation of the program.

(c) Notification of change in membership of professional assessment committee Any public housing agency or nonprofit corporation receiving assistance under this chapter shall notify the Secretary of any change in the membership of the professional assessment committee within thirty days of such change. Such notification shall list the names and professional qualifications of new members of the committee.

(d) Procedure for changes in membership of professional assessment committee Procedures shall be established to insure that changes in the membership of the professional assessment committee are consistent with the requirements of [section 8002(7) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8002/7).

*([Pub. L. 95–557, title IV, § 406](/us/pl/95/557/tIV/s406), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2107](/us/stat/92/2107).)*
