---
title: "§ 159. Enforcement; penalties applicable; Congressional findings"
identifier: "USC-T21-S159"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section159"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 145, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch145/s1) (part), as added [Pub. L. 99–198, title XVII, § 1768(e)](/us/pl/99/198/tXVII/s1768/e), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1655](/us/stat/99/1655).)"
---
# § 159. Enforcement; penalties applicable; Congressional findings

##### § 159. Enforcement; penalties applicable; Congressional findings

The procedures of sections 672, 673, and 674 of this title (relating to detentions, seizures and condemnations, and injunctions, respectively) shall apply to the enforcement of this chapter with respect to any product prepared, sold, bartered, exchanged, or shipped in violation of this chapter or a regulation promulgated under this chapter. The provisions (including penalties) of [section 675 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s675) shall apply to the performance of official duties under this chapter. Congress finds that (i) the products and activities that are regulated under this chapter are either in interstate or foreign commerce or substantially affect such commerce or the free flow thereof, and (ii) regulation of the products and activities as provided in this chapter is necessary to prevent and eliminate burdens on such commerce and to effectively regulate such commerce.

*([Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 145, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch145/s1) (part), as added [Pub. L. 99–198, title XVII, § 1768(e)](/us/pl/99/198/tXVII/s1768/e), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1655](/us/stat/99/1655).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

See note set out under [section 151 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s151).

Another [section 1768 of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s1768), cited as a credit to this section, amended [section 136y of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s136y), Agriculture.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 23, 1985, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1768(f) of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s1768/f), set out as an Effective Date of 1985 Amendment note under [section 151 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s151).
