---
title: "§ 2163. Reservation of territorial power to control territory and territorial instrumentalities"
identifier: "USC-T48-S2163"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section2163"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–187, title III, § 303](/us/pl/114/187/tIII/s303), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 579](/us/stat/130/579).)"
---
# § 2163. Reservation of territorial power to control territory and territorial instrumentalities

##### § 2163. Reservation of territorial power to control territory and territorial instrumentalities

(1) a territory law prescribing a method of composition of indebtedness or a moratorium law, but solely to the extent that it prohibits the payment of principal or interest by an entity not described in [section 109(b)(2) of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s109/b/2), may not bind any creditor of a covered territory or any covered territorial instrumentality thereof that does not consent to the composition or moratorium;

(2) a judgment entered under a law described in paragraph (1) may not bind a creditor that does not consent to the composition; and

(3) unlawful executive orders that alter, amend, or modify rights of holders of any debt of the territory or territorial instrumentality, or that divert funds from one territorial instrumentality to another or to the territory, shall be preempted by this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 114–187, title III, § 303](/us/pl/114/187/tIII/s303), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 579](/us/stat/130/579).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in par. (3), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–187](/us/pl/114/187), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 549](/us/stat/130/549), known as the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act and also as PROMESA, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s2101) and Tables.
