---
title: "§ 2204–1. Delegation of regulatory functions of Secretary of Agriculture; definitions"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2204–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2204–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Apr. 4, 1940, ch. 75, § 1](/us/act/1940-04-04/ch75/s1), [54 Stat. 81](/us/stat/54/81).)"
---
# § 2204–1. Delegation of regulatory functions of Secretary of Agriculture; definitions

##### § 2204–1. Delegation of regulatory functions of Secretary of Agriculture; definitions

(a) The term “regulatory order” means an order, marketing agreement, standard, permit, license, registration, suspension or revocation of a permit, license, or registration, certificate, award, rule or regulation, if it has the force and effect of law, and if it may be made, prescribed, issued, or promulgated only after notice and hearing or opportunity for hearing have been given.

(b) The term “regulatory function” means the making, prescribing, issuing, or promulgating of a regulatory order; and includes (1) determining whether such making, prescribing, issuing, or promulgating is authorized or required by law, and (2) any action which is required or authorized to be performed before, after, or in connection with, such determining, making, prescribing, issuing, or promulgating.

*([Apr. 4, 1940, ch. 75, § 1](/us/act/1940-04-04/ch75/s1), [54 Stat. 81](/us/stat/54/81).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 450c of this title](/us/usc/t7/s450c) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section, and to [section 516a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s516a) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).
