---
title: "§ 6307. Penalties"
identifier: "USC-T40-S6307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section6307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1187](/us/stat/116/1187).)"
---
# § 6307. Penalties

##### § 6307. Penalties

(a) In General.—

(1) Penalty.— A person violating section 6302 or 6303 of this title, or a regulation prescribed under [section 6304 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s6304), shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 60 days, or both.

(2) Procedure.— Prosecution for an offense under this subsection shall be in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, by information by the United States Attorney or an Assistant United States Attorney.

(b) Offenses Involving Property Damage Over $100.—

(1) Penalty.— If in the commission of a violation described in subsection (a), property is damaged in an amount exceeding $100, the period of imprisonment for the offense may be not more than five years.

(2) Venue and procedure.— Prosecution of an offense under this subsection shall be in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia by indictment. Prosecution may be on information by the United States Attorney or an Assistant United States Attorney if the defendant, after being advised of the nature of the charge and of rights of the defendant, waives in open court prosecution by indictment.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1187](/us/stat/116/1187).)*

In subsection (a)(1), the words “fined under title 18” are substituted for “fined not more than $100” for consistency with chapter 227 of title 18.

In subsection (a)(2), the words “Superior Court of the District of Columbia” are substituted for “Municipal Court for the District of Columbia” [subsequently changed to “District of Columbia Court of General Sessions” because of sections 1 and 7 of the Act of July 8, 1963 ([Public Law 88–60](/us/pl/88/60), [77 Stat. 77](/us/stat/77/77), 78)] because of section 155(a) of the District of Columbia Court Reorganization Act of 1970 ([Public Law 91–358](/us/pl/91/358), [85 Stat. 570](/us/stat/85/570)).

In subsection (b)(1), the words “the amount of the fine for the offense may be not more than $5,000” are omitted for consistency with chapter 227 of title 18.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6307 | 40:193s. | Oct. 24, 1951, ch. 559, § 6, 65 Stat. 635. |
