---
title: "§ 2406. Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2406"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2406"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3216](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3216), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 959](/us/stat/113/959).)"
---
# § 2406. Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors

##### § 2406. Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors

(a) In general

(1) There is in the Administration a Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors. The director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program provided for under the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Executive Order shall serve as the Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors.

(2) Within the Department of Energy, the Deputy Administrator shall report to the Secretary of Energy through the Administrator and shall have direct access to the Secretary and other senior officials in the Department.

(b) Duties The Deputy Administrator shall be assigned the responsibilities, authorities, and accountability for all functions of the Office of Naval Reactors under the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Executive Order.

(c) Effect on Executive Order Except as otherwise specified in this section and notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the provisions of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Executive Order remain in full force and effect until changed by law.

(d) Naval Nuclear Propulsion Executive Order As used in this section, the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Executive Order is Executive Order No. 12344, dated February 1, 1982 ([42 U.S.C. 7158](/us/usc/t42/s7158) note) 11 See References in Text note below. (as in force pursuant to section 1634 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 ([Public Law 98–525](/us/pl/98/525); [42 U.S.C. 7158](/us/usc/t42/s7158) note)).1

*([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3216](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3216), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 959](/us/stat/113/959).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order No. 12344, referred to in subsec. (d), is set out as a note under [section 2511 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2511).

Section 1634 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 ([Public Law 98–525](/us/pl/98/525)), referred to in subsec. (d), was formerly set out as a note under [section 7158 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7158), The Public Health and Welfare, and was renumbered [section 4101 of Pub. L. 107–314](/us/pl/107/314/s4101), the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003, by [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(d)(2)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/d/2), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1757](/us/stat/117/1757). [Section 4101 of Pub. L. 107–314](/us/pl/107/314/s4101) is classified to [section 2511 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2511).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 1, 2000, see [section 3299 of Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65/s3299), set out as a note under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2401).
