---
title: "§ 1520. Effects of recognition of a foreign main proceeding"
identifier: "USC-T11-S1520"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section1520"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–8, title VIII, § 801(a)](/us/pl/109/8/tVIII/s801/a), Apr. 20, 2005, [119 Stat. 141](/us/stat/119/141).)"
---
# § 1520. Effects of recognition of a foreign main proceeding

##### § 1520. Effects of recognition of a foreign main proceeding

(a) Upon recognition of a foreign proceeding that is a foreign main proceeding—

(1) sections 361 and 362 apply with respect to the debtor and the property of the debtor that is within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States;

(2) sections 363, 549, and 552 apply to a transfer of an interest of the debtor in property that is within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States to the same extent that the sections would apply to property of an estate;

(3) unless the court orders otherwise, the foreign representative may operate the debtor’s business and may exercise the rights and powers of a trustee under and to the extent provided by sections 363 and 552; and

(4) section 552 applies to property of the debtor that is within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States.

(b) Subsection (a) does not affect the right to commence an individual action or proceeding in a foreign country to the extent necessary to preserve a claim against the debtor.

(c) Subsection (a) does not affect the right of a foreign representative or an entity to file a petition commencing a case under this title or the right of any party to file claims or take other proper actions in such a case.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–8, title VIII, § 801(a)](/us/pl/109/8/tVIII/s801/a), Apr. 20, 2005, [119 Stat. 141](/us/stat/119/141).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Apr. 20, 2005, and not applicable with respect to cases commenced under this title before such effective date, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1501 of Pub. L. 109–8](/us/pl/109/8/s1501), set out as an Effective Date of 2005 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).
