---
title: "§ 1116. Injunctive relief"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1116"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1116"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([July 5, 1946, ch. 540](/us/act/1946-07-05/ch540), title VI, § 34, [60 Stat. 439](/us/stat/60/439); [Pub. L. 93–596, § 1](/us/pl/93/596/s1), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1949](/us/stat/88/1949); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1503(1)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1503/1), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2179](/us/stat/98/2179); [Pub. L. 100–667, title I, § 128(c)](/us/pl/100/667/tI/s128/c)–(e), Nov. 16, 1988, [102 Stat. 3945](/us/stat/102/3945); [Pub. L. 104–153, § 6](/us/pl/104/153/s6), July 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1388]"
---
# § 1116. Injunctive relief

##### § 1116. Injunctive relief

(a) Jurisdiction; service The several courts vested with jurisdiction of civil actions arising under this chapter shall have power to grant injunctions, according to the principles of equity and upon such terms as the court may deem reasonable, to prevent the violation of any right of the registrant of a mark registered in the Patent and Trademark Office or to prevent a violation under subsection (a), (c), or (d) of [section 1125 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1125). A plaintiff seeking any such injunction shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of irreparable harm upon a finding of a violation identified in this subsection in the case of a motion for a permanent injunction or upon a finding of likelihood of success on the merits for a violation identified in this subsection in the case of a motion for a preliminary injunction or temporary restraining order. Any such injunction may include a provision directing the defendant to file with the court and serve on the plaintiff within thirty days after the service on the defendant of such injunction, or such extended period as the court may direct, a report in writing under oath setting forth in detail the manner and form in which the defendant has complied with the injunction. Any such injunction granted upon hearing, after notice to the defendant, by any district court of the United States, may be served on the parties against whom such injunction is granted anywhere in the United States where they may be found, and shall be operative and may be enforced by proceedings to punish for contempt, or otherwise, by the court by which such injunction was granted, or by any other United States district court in whose jurisdiction the defendant may be found.

(b) Transfer of certified copies of court papers The said courts shall have jurisdiction to enforce said injunction, as provided in this chapter, as fully as if the injunction had been granted by the district court in which it is sought to be enforced. The clerk of the court or judge granting the injunction shall, when required to do so by the court before which application to enforce said injunction is made, transfer without delay to said court a certified copy of all papers on file in his office upon which said injunction was granted.

(c) Notice to Director It shall be the duty of the clerks of such courts within one month after the filing of any action, suit, or proceeding involving a mark registered under the provisions of this chapter to give notice thereof in writing to the Director setting forth in order so far as known the names and addresses of the litigants and the designating number or numbers of the registration or registrations upon which the action, suit, or proceeding has been brought, and in the event any other registration be subsequently included in the action, suit, or proceeding by amendment, answer, or other pleading, the clerk shall give like notice thereof to the Director, and within one month after the judgment is entered or an appeal is taken the clerk of the court shall give notice thereof to the Director, and it shall be the duty of the Director on receipt of such notice forthwith to endorse the same upon the file wrapper of the said registration or registrations and to incorporate the same as a part of the contents of said file wrapper.

(d) Civil actions arising out of use of counterfeit marks

(1)

(A) In the case of a civil action arising under [section 1114(1)(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1114/1/a) or [section 220506 of title 36](/us/usc/t36/s220506) with respect to a violation that consists of using a counterfeit mark in connection with the sale, offering for sale, or distribution of goods or services, the court may, upon ex parte application, grant an order under subsection (a) of this section pursuant to this subsection providing for the seizure of goods and counterfeit marks involved in such violation and the means of making such marks, and records documenting the manufacture, sale, or receipt of things involved in such violation.

(B) As used in this subsection the term “counterfeit mark” means—

but such term does not include any mark or designation used on or in connection with goods or services of which the manufacture 11 So in original. Probably should be “manufacturer”. or producer was, at the time of the manufacture or production in question authorized to use the mark or designation for the type of goods or services so manufactured or produced, by the holder of the right to use such mark or designation.

(i) a counterfeit of a mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent and Trademark Office for such goods or services sold, offered for sale, or distributed and that is in use, whether or not the person against whom relief is sought knew such mark was so registered; or

(ii) a spurious designation that is identical with, or substantially indistinguishable from, a designation as to which the remedies of this chapter are made available by reason of [section 220506 of title 36](/us/usc/t36/s220506);

(2) The court shall not receive an application under this subsection unless the applicant has given such notice of the application as is reasonable under the circumstances to the United States attorney for the judicial district in which such order is sought. Such attorney may participate in the proceedings arising under such application if such proceedings may affect evidence of an offense against the United States. The court may deny such application if the court determines that the public interest in a potential prosecution so requires.

(3) The application for an order under this subsection shall—

(A) be based on an affidavit or the verified complaint establishing facts sufficient to support the findings of fact and conclusions of law required for such order; and

(B) contain the additional information required by paragraph (5) of this subsection to be set forth in such order.

(4) The court shall not grant such an application unless—

(A) the person obtaining an order under this subsection provides the security determined adequate by the court for the payment of such damages as any person may be entitled to recover as a result of a wrongful seizure or wrongful attempted seizure under this subsection; and

(B) the court finds that it clearly appears from specific facts that—

(i) an order other than an ex parte seizure order is not adequate to achieve the purposes of [section 1114 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1114);

(ii) the applicant has not publicized the requested seizure;

(iii) the applicant is likely to succeed in showing that the person against whom seizure would be ordered used a counterfeit mark in connection with the sale, offering for sale, or distribution of goods or services;

(iv) an immediate and irreparable injury will occur if such seizure is not ordered;

(v) the matter to be seized will be located at the place identified in the application;

(vi) the harm to the applicant of denying the application outweighs the harm to the legitimate interests of the person against whom seizure would be ordered of granting the application; and

(vii) the person against whom seizure would be ordered, or persons acting in concert with such person, would destroy, move, hide, or otherwise make such matter inaccessible to the court, if the applicant were to proceed on notice to such person.

(5) An order under this subsection shall set forth—

(A) the findings of fact and conclusions of law required for the order;

(B) a particular description of the matter to be seized, and a description of each place at which such matter is to be seized;

(C) the time period, which shall end not later than seven days after the date on which such order is issued, during which the seizure is to be made;

(D) the amount of security required to be provided under this subsection; and

(E) a date for the hearing required under paragraph (10) of this subsection.

(6) The court shall take appropriate action to protect the person against whom an order under this subsection is directed from publicity, by or at the behest of the plaintiff, about such order and any seizure under such order.

(7) Any materials seized under this subsection shall be taken into the custody of the court. For seizures made under this section, the court shall enter an appropriate protective order with respect to discovery and use of any records or information that has been seized. The protective order shall provide for appropriate procedures to ensure that confidential, private, proprietary, or privileged information contained in such records is not improperly disclosed or used.

(8) An order under this subsection, together with the supporting documents, shall be sealed until the person against whom the order is directed has an opportunity to contest such order, except that any person against whom such order is issued shall have access to such order and supporting documents after the seizure has been carried out.

(9) The court shall order that service of a copy of the order under this subsection shall be made by a Federal law enforcement officer (such as a United States marshal or an officer or agent of the United States Customs Service, Secret Service, Federal Bureau of Investigation, or Post Office) or may be made by a State or local law enforcement officer, who, upon making service, shall carry out the seizure under the order. The court shall issue orders, when appropriate, to protect the defendant from undue damage from the disclosure of trade secrets or other confidential information during the course of the seizure, including, when appropriate, orders restricting the access of the applicant (or any agent or employee of the applicant) to such secrets or information.

(10)

(A) The court shall hold a hearing, unless waived by all the parties, on the date set by the court in the order of seizure. That date shall be not sooner than ten days after the order is issued and not later than fifteen days after the order is issued, unless the applicant for the order shows good cause for another date or unless the party against whom such order is directed consents to another date for such hearing. At such hearing the party obtaining the order shall have the burden to prove that the facts supporting findings of fact and conclusions of law necessary to support such order are still in effect. If that party fails to meet that burden, the seizure order shall be dissolved or modified appropriately.

(B) In connection with a hearing under this paragraph, the court may make such orders modifying the time limits for discovery under the Rules of Civil Procedure as may be necessary to prevent the frustration of the purposes of such hearing.

(11) A person who suffers damage by reason of a wrongful seizure under this subsection has a cause of action against the applicant for the order under which such seizure was made, and shall be entitled to recover such relief as may be appropriate, including damages for lost profits, cost of materials, loss of good will, and punitive damages in instances where the seizure was sought in bad faith, and, unless the court finds extenuating circumstances, to recover a reasonable attorney’s fee. The court in its discretion may award prejudgment interest on relief recovered under this paragraph, at an annual interest rate established under [section 6621(a)(2) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s6621/a/2), commencing on the date of service of the claimant’s pleading setting forth the claim under this paragraph and ending on the date such recovery is granted, or for such shorter time as the court deems appropriate.

*([July 5, 1946, ch. 540](/us/act/1946-07-05/ch540), title VI, § 34, [60 Stat. 439](/us/stat/60/439); [Pub. L. 93–596, § 1](/us/pl/93/596/s1), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1949](/us/stat/88/1949); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1503(1)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1503/1), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2179](/us/stat/98/2179); [Pub. L. 100–667, title I, § 128(c)](/us/pl/100/667/tI/s128/c)–(e), Nov. 16, 1988, [102 Stat. 3945](/us/stat/102/3945); [Pub. L. 104–153, § 6](/us/pl/104/153/s6), July 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1388](/us/stat/110/1388); [Pub. L. 106–43, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/106/43/s3/a/1), Aug. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 218](/us/stat/113/218); [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(9) [title III, § 3003(a)(1), title IV, § 4732(b)(1)(B)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/9/tIII/tIV/s4732/b/1/B), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–548, 1501A–583; [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title III, § 13207(b)(8)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tIII/s13207/b/8)–(10), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1908](/us/stat/116/1908); [Pub. L. 110–403, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/110/403/tI/s102/b), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4258](/us/stat/122/4258); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Q, title II, § 226(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dQ/tII/s226/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/134/2208).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Rules of Civil Procedure, referred to in subsec. (d)(10)(B), probably means the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Prior Provisions

Acts [Feb. 20, 1905, ch. 592](/us/act/1905-02-20/ch592), §§ 19, 20, [33 Stat. 729](/us/stat/33/729); [Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 291](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s291), [36 Stat. 1167](/us/stat/36/1167); [June 25, 1936, ch. 804](/us/act/1936-06-25/ch804), [49 Stat. 1921](/us/stat/49/1921).

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) inserted after first sentence “A plaintiff seeking any such injunction shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of irreparable harm upon a finding of a violation identified in this subsection in the case of a motion for a permanent injunction or upon a finding of likelihood of success on the merits for a violation identified in this subsection in the case of a motion for a preliminary injunction or temporary restraining order.”

2008—Subsec. (d)(7). [Pub. L. 110–403](/us/pl/110/403) amended par. (7) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (7) read as follows: “Any materials seized under this subsection shall be taken into the custody of the court. The court shall enter an appropriate protective order with respect to discovery by the applicant of any records that have been seized. The protective order shall provide for appropriate procedures to assure that confidential information contained in such records is not improperly disclosed to the applicant.”

2002—Subsec. (d)(1)(A), (B)(ii). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 13207(b)(8)](/us/pl/107/273/s13207/b/8), (9), substituted “[section 220506 of title 36](/us/usc/t36/s220506)” for “section 110 of the Act entitled ‘An Act to incorporate the United States Olympic Association’, approved September 21, 1950 ([36 U.S.C. 380](/us/usc/t36/s380))”.

Subsec. (d)(11). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 13207(b)(10)](/us/pl/107/273/s13207/b/10), substituted “6621(a)(2) of title 26” for “6621 of title 26”.

1999—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–113, § 1000(a)(9) [title III, § 3003(a)(1)]](/us/pl/106/113/s1000/a/9/tIII/s3003/a/1), substituted “(a), (c), or (d)” for “(a) or (c)” in first sentence.

[Pub. L. 106–43](/us/pl/106/43) substituted “subsection (a) or (c) of [section 1125 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1125)” for “[section 1125(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1125/a)” in first sentence.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 106–113, § 1000(a)(9) [title IV, § 4732(b)(1)(B)]](/us/pl/106/113/s1000/a/9/tIV/s4732/b/1/B), substituted “Director” for “Commissioner” wherever appearing.

1996—Subsec. (d)(9). [Pub. L. 104–153](/us/pl/104/153) inserted first sentence and struck out former first sentence which read as follows: “The court shall order that a United States marshal or other law enforcement officer is to serve a copy of the order under this subsection and then is to carry out the seizure under such order.”

1988—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 100–667, § 128(c)](/us/pl/100/667/s128/c), inserted “or to prevent a violation under [section 1125(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1125/a)” after “Office” in first sentence.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 100–667, § 128(d)](/us/pl/100/667/s128/d), substituted “proceeding involving a mark registered” for “proceeding arising” and “judgment is entered or an appeal is taken” for “decision is rendered, appeal taken or a decree issued”.

Subsec. (d)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 100–667, § 128(e)](/us/pl/100/667/s128/e), inserted “on or” after “or designation used” in concluding provisions.

1984—[Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) designated first, second, and third undesignated pars. as subsecs. (a), (b), and (c), respectively and added subsec. (d).

1975—[Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596) substituted “Patent and Trademark Office” for “Patent Office”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1999 Amendment

Amendment by section 1000(a)(9) [title III, § 3003(a)(1)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113) applicable to all domain names registered before, on, or after Nov. 29, 1999, see section 1000(a)(9) [title III, § 3010] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 1117 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1117).

Amendment by section 1000(a)(9) [title IV, § 4732(b)(1)(B)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113) effective 4 months after Nov. 29, 1999, see section 1000(a)(9) [title IV, § 4731] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 1 of Title 35](/us/usc/t35/s1), Patents.

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–667](/us/pl/100/667) effective one year after Nov. 16, 1988, see [section 136 of Pub. L. 100–667](/us/pl/100/667/s136), set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051).

#### Effective Date of 1975 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596) effective Jan. 2, 1975, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596/s4), set out as a note under [section 1111 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1111).

#### Repeal and Effect on Existing Rights

Repeal of inconsistent provisions, effect of this chapter on pending proceedings and existing registrations and rights under prior acts, see notes set out under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051).

#### Construction of 2020 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. Q, title II, § 226(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dQ/tII/s226/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/134/2208), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall not be construed to mean that a plaintiff seeking an injunction was not entitled to a presumption of irreparable harm before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 27, 2020].”

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).

For transfer of the functions, personnel, assets, and obligations of the United States Secret Service, including the functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 381, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of Commerce, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Commerce, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 5 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/64/1263), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
