---
title: "§ 2291e. Reallocation of funds withheld from countries which fail to take adequate steps to halt illicit drug production or trafficking"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2291e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2291e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 486, as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title IV, § 4206(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tIV/s4206/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4270](/us/stat/102/4270); amended [Pub. L. 102–583, § 6(b)(5)](/us/pl/102/583/s6/b/5), Nov. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 4932](/us/stat/106/4932); [Pub. L. 103–447, title I, § 101(d)](/us/pl/103/447/tI/s101/d), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4692](/us/stat/108/4692).)"
---
# § 2291e. Reallocation of funds withheld from countries which fail to take adequate steps to halt illicit drug production or trafficking

##### § 2291e. Reallocation of funds withheld from countries which fail to take adequate steps to halt illicit drug production or trafficking

(1) International narcotics control assistance Those funds may be transferred to and consolidated with the funds appropriated to carry out this part in order to provide additional narcotics control assistance for those countries. Funds transferred under this paragraph may only be used to provide increased funding for activities previously justified to the Congress. Transfers may be made under this paragraph without regard to the 20-percent increase limitation contained in [section 2360(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2360/a). This paragraph does not apply with respect to funds made available for assistance under the Arms Export Control Act [[22 U.S.C. 2751](/us/usc/t22/s2751) et seq.].

(2) Other assistance Any such funds not used under paragraph (1) shall be reprogrammed within the account for which they were appropriated (subject to the regular reprogramming procedures under [section 2394–1 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2394–1)) in order to provide additional assistance for those countries.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 486, as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title IV, § 4206(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tIV/s4206/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4270](/us/stat/102/4270); amended [Pub. L. 102–583, § 6(b)(5)](/us/pl/102/583/s6/b/5), Nov. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 4932](/us/stat/106/4932); [Pub. L. 103–447, title I, § 101(d)](/us/pl/103/447/tI/s101/d), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4692](/us/stat/108/4692).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Arms Export Control Act, referred to in par. (1), is [Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/82/1320), which is classified principally to chapter 39 (§ 2751 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2751 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2751) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–447](/us/pl/103/447) struck out subsec. (a) designation and heading which read “Additional assistance for countries taking significant steps”, substituted “assistance under this chapter” for “security assistance” in provisions before par. (1), “Other assistance” for “Security assistance” in par. (2) heading, and “additional assistance” for “additional security assistance” in par. (2) text, and struck out heading and text of subsec. (b). Text read as follows: “As used in this section, the term ‘security assistance’ means assistance under part II of subchapter II of this chapter (relating to the grant military assistance program), part IV of subchapter II of this chapter (relating to the Economic Support Fund), part V of subchapter II of this chapter (relating to international military education and training), or the Arms Export Control Act (relating to the ‘Foreign Military Financing Program’).”

1992—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–583, § 6(b)(5)(A)](/us/pl/102/583/s6/b/5/A), substituted “[section 2291j of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2291j)” for “[section 2291(h) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2291/h)”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–583, § 6(b)(5)(B)](/us/pl/102/583/s6/b/5/B), substituted “(relating to the ‘Foreign Military Financing Program’)” for “(relating to foreign military sales financing)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Supersedure of Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1989

[Pub. L. 100–690, title IV, § 4206(b)](/us/pl/100/690/tIV/s4206/b), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4270](/us/stat/102/4270), which provided that the enactment of this section superseded [section 578(d) of Pub. L. 100–461](/us/pl/100/461/s578/d), Oct. 1, 1988, [102 Stat. 2268–46](/us/stat/102/2268-46), and that funds could be transferred under subsec. (a)(1) of this section notwithstanding [section 514 of Pub. L. 100–461](/us/pl/100/461/s514), [102 Stat. 2268–23](/us/stat/102/2268-23), was repealed by [Pub. L. 102–583, § 6(e)(1)](/us/pl/102/583/s6/e/1), Nov. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 4933](/us/stat/106/4933).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
