---
title: "§ 1055. Use by related companies affecting validity and registration"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1055"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1055"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([July 5, 1946, ch. 540](/us/act/1946-07-05/ch540), title I, § 5, [60 Stat. 429](/us/stat/60/429); [Pub. L. 100–667, title I, § 107](/us/pl/100/667/tI/s107), Nov. 16, 1988, [102 Stat. 3938](/us/stat/102/3938).)"
---
# § 1055. Use by related companies affecting validity and registration

##### § 1055. Use by related companies affecting validity and registration

Where a registered mark or a mark sought to be registered is or may be used legitimately by related companies, such use shall inure to the benefit of the registrant or applicant for registration, and such use shall not affect the validity of such mark or of its registration, provided such mark is not used in such manner as to deceive the public. If first use of a mark by a person is controlled by the registrant or applicant for registration of the mark with respect to the nature and quality of the goods or services, such first use shall inure to the benefit of the registrant or applicant, as the case may be.

*([July 5, 1946, ch. 540](/us/act/1946-07-05/ch540), title I, § 5, [60 Stat. 429](/us/stat/60/429); [Pub. L. 100–667, title I, § 107](/us/pl/100/667/tI/s107), Nov. 16, 1988, [102 Stat. 3938](/us/stat/102/3938).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–667](/us/pl/100/667) inserted at end “If first use of a mark by a person is controlled by the registrant or applicant for registration of the mark with respect to the nature and quality of the goods or services, such first use shall inure to the benefit of the registrant or applicant, as the case may be.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–667](/us/pl/100/667) effective one year after Nov. 16, 1988, see [section 136 of Pub. L. 100–667](/us/pl/100/667/s136), set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051).

#### Repeal and Effect on Existing Rights

Repeal of inconsistent provisions, effect of this chapter on pending proceedings and existing registrations and rights under prior acts, see notes set out under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051).
