---
title: "§ 6305. Advisory council on transportation statistics"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 891](/us/stat/126/891); amended [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(304)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/304), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4339](/us/stat/136/4339).)"
---
# § 6305. Advisory council on transportation statistics

##### § 6305. Advisory council on transportation statistics

(a) In General.— The Director shall establish and consult with an advisory council on transportation statistics.

(b) Function.— The advisory council established under this section shall advise the Director on—

(1) the quality, reliability, consistency, objectivity, and relevance of transportation statistics and analyses collected, supported, or disseminated by the Bureau and the Department; and

(2) methods to encourage cooperation and interoperability of transportation data collected by the Bureau, the operating administrations of the Department, States, local governments, metropolitan planning organizations, and private sector entities.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The advisory council shall be composed of not fewer than 9 and not more than 11 members appointed by the Director.

(2) Selection.— In selecting members for the advisory council, the Director shall appoint individuals who—

(A) are not officers or employees of the United States;

(B) possess expertise in—

(i) transportation data collection, analysis, or application;

(ii) economics; or

(iii) transportation safety; and

(C) represent a cross section of transportation stakeholders, to the greatest extent possible.

(d) Terms of Appointment.—

(1) In general.— Except as provided in paragraph (2), members of the advisory council shall be appointed to staggered terms not to exceed 3 years.

(2) Additional terms.— A member may be renominated for 1 additional 3-year term.

(3) Current members.— A member serving on an advisory council on transportation statistics on the day before the date of enactment of the Transportation Research and Innovative Technology Act of 2012 shall serve until the end of the appointed term of the member.

(e) Applicability of Chapter10of Title5.— Chapter 10 of title 5 shall apply to the advisory council established under this section, except that [section 1013 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013) shall not apply.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 891](/us/stat/126/891); amended [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(304)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/304), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4339](/us/stat/136/4339).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the Transportation Research and Innovative Technology Act of 2012, referred to in subsec. (d)(3), is the date of enactment of div. E of [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141), which was approved July 6, 2012.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “Chapter 10 of Title 5” for “Federal Advisory Committee Act” in heading and “Chapter 10 of title 5 shall apply to the advisory council established under this section, except that [section 1013 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013)” for “The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the advisory council established under this section, except that section 14 of that Act” in text.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.

#### Termination of Advisory Council on Transportation Statistics

Advisory Council on Transportation Statistics terminated Oct. 5, 2018, see [section 418(g) of Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254/s418/g), set out as a note preceding [section 42301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s42301).

#### Advisory Council on Transportation Statistics

[Pub. L. 102–240, title VI, § 6007](/us/pl/102/240/tVI/s6007), Dec. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 2174](/us/stat/105/2174), required the Director to establish an Advisory Council on Transportation Statistics composed of not more than 6 members to provide advice on the quality of transportation statistics and analysis.
