---
title: "§ 6233. Supplement to plan for declassification of restricted data and formerly restricted data"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6233"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6233"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/139/1411).)"
---
# § 6233. Supplement to plan for declassification of restricted data and formerly restricted data

##### § 6233. Supplement to plan for declassification of restricted data and formerly restricted data

(a) Supplement to Plan.— The Secretary of Energy and the Archivist of the United States shall, after consultation with the members of the National Security Council and in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies, develop a supplement to the plan required under subsection (a) of section 6232.

(b) Contents of Supplement.— The supplement shall provide for the application of that plan (including in particular the element of the plan required by section 6232(b)(1)) to all records subject to Executive Order No. 12958 that were determined before October 17, 1998, to be suitable for declassification.

(c) Limitation on Declassification of Records.— All records referred to in subsection (b) shall be treated, for purposes of subsection (c) of section 6232, in the same manner as records referred to in subsection (a) of such section.

(d) Submission of Supplement.— The Secretary of Energy shall submit the supplement required under subsection (a) to the recipients of the plan referred to in subsection (d) of section 6232.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/139/1411).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order No. 12958, referred to in subsec. (b), is Ex. Ord. No. 12958, Apr. 17, 1995, 60 F.R. 19825, which was formerly set out as a note under [section 3161 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s3161), War and National Defense, and was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 13526, § 6.2(g), Dec. 29, 2009, 75 F.R. 731.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2673 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2673), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
