---
title: "§ 2656g. Report on terrorist assets in United States"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2656g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2656g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–138, title III, § 304](/us/pl/102/138/tIII/s304), Oct. 28, 1991, [105 Stat. 710](/us/stat/105/710); [Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 133(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s133/b/2), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 396](/us/stat/108/396).)"
---
# § 2656g. Report on terrorist assets in United States

##### § 2656g. Report on terrorist assets in United States

(a) Reports to Congress Beginning 90 days after October 28, 1991, and every 365 days thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and appropriate investigative agencies, shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives a report describing the nature and extent of assets held in the United States by terrorist countries and any organization engaged in international terrorism. Each such report shall provide a detailed list and description of specific assets.

(b) Definitions For purposes of this section—

(1) the term “terrorist countries”, refers to countries designated by the Secretary of State under [section 2780(d) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2780/d); and

(2) the term “international terrorism” has the meaning given such term in [section 2656f(d) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2656f/d).

*([Pub. L. 102–138, title III, § 304](/us/pl/102/138/tIII/s304), Oct. 28, 1991, [105 Stat. 710](/us/stat/105/710); [Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 133(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s133/b/2), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 396](/us/stat/108/396).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) substituted “Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and appropriate investigative agencies,” for “Secretary of the Treasury” and inserted at end “Each such report shall provide a detailed list and description of specific assets.”
