---
title: "§ 12401. Grant program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40602](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40602), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1951](/us/stat/108/1951); [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1106(b)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1106/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1497](/us/stat/114/1497).)"
---
# § 12401. Grant program

##### § 12401. Grant program

(a) In general The Attorney General is authorized to provide grants to States and units of local government to improve and implement processes for entering data regarding stalking and domestic violence into local, State, and national crime information databases.

(b) Eligibility To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), a State or unit of local government shall certify that it has or intends to establish a program that enters into the National Crime Information Center records of—

(1) warrants for the arrest of persons violating protection orders intended to protect victims from stalking or domestic violence;

(2) arrests or convictions of persons violating protection 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “orders intended to protect victims from stalking”. or domestic violence; and

(3) protection orders for the protection of persons from stalking or domestic violence.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40602](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40602), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1951](/us/stat/108/1951); [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1106(b)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1106/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1497](/us/stat/114/1497).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14031 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14031), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2000—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–386](/us/pl/106/386) inserted “and implement” after “improve”.
