---
title: "§ 1931. Additional compensation for employees with specialty assignments and proficiencies"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1931"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1931"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1011](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1011), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 360](/us/stat/117/360).)"
---
# § 1931. Additional compensation for employees with specialty assignments and proficiencies

##### § 1931. Additional compensation for employees with specialty assignments and proficiencies

(a) Establishment of positions The Chief of the Capitol Police may establish and determine, from time to time, positions in salary classes of employees of the Capitol Police to be designated as employees with specialty assignments or proficiencies, based on the experience, education, training, or other appropriate factors required to carry out the duties of such employees.

(b) Additional compensation In addition to the regularly scheduled rate of basic pay, each employee holding a position designated under this section shall receive an amount determined by the Chief, except that—

(1) such amount may not exceed 25 percent of the employee’s annual rate of basic pay; and

(2) such amount may not be paid in a calendar year to the extent that, when added to the total basic pay paid or payable to such employee for service performed in the year, such amount would cause the total to exceed the annual rate of basic pay payable for level II of the Executive Schedule, as of the end of such year.

(c) Manner of payment The additional compensation authorized by this subsection shall be paid to an employee in a manner determined by the Chief or his designee except when the employee ceases to be assigned to the specialty assignment or ceases to maintain the required proficiency. The loss of such additional compensation shall not constitute an adverse action for any purpose.

(d) Determination not appealable or reviewable Any determination under section 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”. (a) shall not be appealable or reviewable in any manner.

*([Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1011](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1011), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 360](/us/stat/117/360).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Level II of the Executive Schedule, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is set out in [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Codification

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003, which is div. H of [Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7).
