---
title: "§ 3513. Implementing actions in anticipation of entry into force; regulations"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3513"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3513"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–465, title I, § 103](/us/pl/103/465/tI/s103), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4819](/us/stat/108/4819).)"
---
# § 3513. Implementing actions in anticipation of entry into force; regulations

##### § 3513. Implementing actions in anticipation of entry into force; regulations

(a) Implementing actions After December 8, 1994—

as may be necessary to ensure that any provision of this Act, or amendment made by this Act, that takes effect on the date any of the Uruguay Round Agreements enters into force with respect to the United States is appropriately implemented on such date. Such proclamation or regulation may not have an effective date earlier than the date of entry into force with respect to the United States of the agreement to which the proclamation or regulation relates.

(1) the President may proclaim such actions, and

(2) other appropriate officers of the United States Government may issue such regulations,

(b) Regulations Any interim regulation necessary or appropriate to carry out any action proposed in the statement of administrative action approved under [section 3511(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3511/a) to implement an agreement described in section 3511(d)(7), (12), or (13) of this title shall be issued not later than 1 year after the date on which the agreement enters into force with respect to the United States.

*([Pub. L. 103–465, title I, § 103](/us/pl/103/465/tI/s103), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4819](/us/stat/108/4819).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4809](/us/stat/108/4809), known as the Uruguay Round Agreements Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3501 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3501) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Uruguay Round Agreements: Entry Into Force

The Uruguay Round Agreements, including the World Trade Organization Agreement and agreements annexed to that Agreement, as referred to in [section 3511(d) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3511/d), entered into force with respect to the United States on Jan. 1, 1995. See note set out under [section 3511 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3511).
