---
title: "§ 2000d–2. Judicial review; administrative procedure provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000d–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000d–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–352, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/88/352/tVI/s603), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 253](/us/stat/78/253).)"
---
# § 2000d–2. Judicial review; administrative procedure provisions

##### § 2000d–2. Judicial review; administrative procedure provisions

Any department or agency action taken pursuant to [section 2000d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–1) shall be subject to such judicial review as may otherwise be provided by law for similar action taken by such department or agency on other grounds. In the case of action, not otherwise subject to judicial review, terminating or refusing to grant or to continue financial assistance upon a finding of failure to comply with any requirement imposed pursuant to [section 2000d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–1), any person aggrieved (including any State or political subdivision thereof and any agency of either) may obtain judicial review of such action in accordance with chapter 7 of title 5, and such action shall not be deemed committed to unreviewable agency discretion within the meaning of that chapter.

*([Pub. L. 88–352, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/88/352/tVI/s603), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 253](/us/stat/78/253).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

“Chapter 7 of title 5” and “that chapter” substituted in text for “section 10 of the Administrative Procedure Act” and “that section”, respectively, on authority of [Pub. L. 89–554, § 7(b)](/us/pl/89/554/s7/b), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 631](/us/stat/80/631), the first section of which enacted Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Prior to the enactment of Title 5, section 10 of the Administrative Procedure Act was classified to [section 1009 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1009).
