---
title: "§ 283. Acceptance of membership by United States in Inter-American Development Bank"
identifier: "USC-T22-S283"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section283"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–147, § 2](/us/pl/86/147/s2), Aug. 7, 1959, [73 Stat. 299](/us/stat/73/299).)"
---
# § 283. Acceptance of membership by United States in Inter-American Development Bank

##### § 283. Acceptance of membership by United States in Inter-American Development Bank

The President is hereby authorized to accept membership for the United States in the Inter-American Development Bank (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank”), provided for by the agreement establishing the bank (hereinafter referred to as the “agreement”) deposited in the archives of the Organization of American States.

*([Pub. L. 86–147, § 2](/us/pl/86/147/s2), Aug. 7, 1959, [73 Stat. 299](/us/stat/73/299).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 86–147, § 1](/us/pl/86/147/s1), Aug. 7, 1959, [73 Stat. 299](/us/stat/73/299), provided that: “This Act [enacting this subchapter and amending [section 24 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s24), Banks and Banking] may be cited as the ‘Inter-American Development Bank Act’.”

#### Proposals for Joint Act by Participants in Inter-American Development Bank for Increased Exploration and Exploitation of Energy and Mineral Resources of Western Hemisphere

[Pub. L. 96–259, title I, § 102](/us/pl/96/259/tI/s102), June 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 430](/us/stat/94/430), which required Presidential evaluation and report on a proposal for joint action by countries of Western Hemisphere and other countries which participate in Inter-American Development Bank to increase exploration for and exploitation of energy and mineral resources of Western Hemisphere through multilateral incentives, administered by Inter-American Development Bank, was repealed by [Pub. L. 101–240, title V, § 541(d)(6)](/us/pl/101/240/tV/s541/d/6), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2518](/us/stat/103/2518).

#### Par Value Modification

For Congressional direction that the Secretary of the Treasury maintain the value in terms of gold of the Inter-American Development Bank’s holdings of United States dollars following the establishment of a par value of the dollar at $38 for a fine troy ounce of gold pursuant to the Par Value Modification Act and for the authorization of the appropriations necessary to provide such maintenance of value, see [section 5152 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5152), Money and Finance.
