---
title: "§ 1907. List of laws inapplicable to procurements of commercially available off-the-shelf items"
identifier: "USC-T41-S1907"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section1907"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "41"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3724](/us/stat/124/3724);[Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, § 1702(h)(8)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVII/s1702/h/8), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2158](/us/stat/135/2158).)"
---
# § 1907. List of laws inapplicable to procurements of commercially available off-the-shelf items

##### § 1907. List of laws inapplicable to procurements of commercially available off-the-shelf items

(a) Inclusion in Federal Acquisition Regulation.—

(1) In general.— The Federal Acquisition Regulation shall include a list of provisions of law that are inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items. A provision of law properly included on the list pursuant to paragraph (2) does not apply to contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items. This section does not render a provision of law not included on the list inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items.

(2) Laws to be included.— A provision of law described in subsection (b) shall be included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law required by paragraph (1) unless the Administrator makes a written determination that it would not be in the best interest of the Federal Government to exempt contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items from the applicability of the provision.

(3) Other authorities or responsibilities not affected.— This section does not modify, supersede, impair, or restrict authorities or responsibilities under—

(A) section 15 of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 644](/us/usc/t15/s644)); or

(B) bid protest procedures developed under the authority of—

(i) subchapter V of chapter 35 of title 31;

(ii) [section 3308 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s3308); or

(iii) sections 3706 and 3707 of this title.

(b) Covered Law.— Except as provided in subsection (a)(3), a provision of law referred to in subsection (a)(1) is a provision of law that the Administrator determines imposes Federal Government-unique policies, procedures, requirements, or restrictions for the procurement of property or services on persons whom the Federal Government has awarded contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items, except for a provision of law that—

(1) provides for criminal or civil penalties; or

(2) specifically refers to this section and provides that, notwithstanding this section, it shall be applicable to contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items.

*([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3724](/us/stat/124/3724);[Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, § 1702(h)(8)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVII/s1702/h/8), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2158](/us/stat/135/2158).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1907 | 41:431(a), (b). | Pub. L. 93–400, § 35(a), (b), as added Pub. L. 104–106, title XLII, § 4203(a), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 654; Pub. L. 105–85, title X, § 1073(g)(2)(C), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1906. |

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a)(3)(B)(ii). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) substituted “section 3308” for “section 2305(e) and (f)”.
