---
title: "§ 8906. Updated data base on acid content in precipitation; new monitoring site not required"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–685, title IV, § 414](/us/pl/100/685/tIV/s414), Nov. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 4101](/us/stat/102/4101).)"
---
# § 8906. Updated data base on acid content in precipitation; new monitoring site not required

##### § 8906. Updated data base on acid content in precipitation; new monitoring site not required

(a)

(1) The National Weather Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall maintain an updated data base describing the acid content in precipitation in the United States, using information from Federal acid precipitation monitoring sites.

(2) Such data shall be available to interested parties by Weather Service Forecast Offices in the National Weather Service, or through such other facilities or means as the Assistant Administrator for Weather Services, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, shall direct, for those areas of the United States where and at such time as such information is presently available, within 120 days after November 17, 1988.

(3) Where other Federal agencies collect such data in the course of carrying out their statutory missions, the heads of those agencies and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall arrange for the transfer of such data to the National Weather Service.

(b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any Federal agency to establish any new acid precipitation monitoring site.

*([Pub. L. 100–685, title IV, § 414](/us/pl/100/685/tIV/s414), Nov. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 4101](/us/stat/102/4101).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989, and not as part of the Acid Precipitation Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.
