---
title: "§ 1683. Pilot projects; requirements; residue removal credits as compensation; implementation guidelines"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1683"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1683"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–554, § 4](/us/pl/96/554/s4), Dec. 19, 1980, [94 Stat. 3257](/us/stat/94/3257).)"
---
# § 1683. Pilot projects; requirements; residue removal credits as compensation; implementation guidelines

##### § 1683. Pilot projects; requirements; residue removal credits as compensation; implementation guidelines

(1) Except in cases where wood residue removal is determined to be necessary for fire prevention, site preparation for regeneration, wildlife habitat improvement, or other land management purposes, the Secretary may not provide for removal of wood residues in instances where the anticipated cost of removal would exceed the anticipated value.

(2) The residue removal credits authorized by this section shall not exceed the amount payable by the purchaser for timber after the application of all other designated charges and credits.

(3) The Secretary may sell the wood residues removed to points of prospective use for not less than their appraised value.

(4) Pilot projects, demonstrations, and other programs established pursuant to this subchapter shall be carried out in a manner which does not result in an adverse effect on the furnishing of timber, free of charge, under any other provision of law.

(5) Wood residues shall be collected from a site so as to avoid soil depletion or erosion giving full consideration to the protection of wildlife habitat.

(6) For the purposes of [section 500 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s500), (A) any residue removal credit applied under this section shall be considered as “money received” or “moneys received”, respectively, and (B) the “money received” or “moneys received”, respectively, from the sales of wood residues removed to points of prospective use shall be the proceeds of the sales less the sum of any residue removal credit applied with respect to such residues plus any costs incurred by the Forest Service in processing and storing such residues.

*([Pub. L. 96–554, § 4](/us/pl/96/554/s4), Dec. 19, 1980, [94 Stat. 3257](/us/stat/94/3257).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1981, see [section 9 of Pub. L. 96–554](/us/pl/96/554/s9), set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1681).
