---
title: "§ 1408. Legislative authority to create authorities; appointment of members; powers of authorities"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1408"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1408"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([July 18, 1950, ch. 466](/us/act/1950-07-18/ch466), title III, § 301, [64 Stat. 346](/us/stat/64/346); [Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783](/us/act/1955-08-11/ch783), title I, § 107(5), (7), (9), [69 Stat. 638](/us/stat/69/638).)"
---
# § 1408. Legislative authority to create authorities; appointment of members; powers of authorities

##### § 1408. Legislative authority to create authorities; appointment of members; powers of authorities

The government of the Virgin Islands, through its legislative assembly, may grant to a public corporate authority existing or to be created through said assembly, exclusive authority to undertake slum clearance, urban redevelopment, urban renewal, and low-rent housing activities within the municipalities of the Virgin Islands. The legislative assembly may provide for the appointment and terms of office of the members of such authority and for the powers of such authority, including authority to accept whatever benefits the Federal Government may make available under the Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 171, Eighty-First Congress), as amended [[42 U.S.C. 1441](/us/usc/t42/s1441) et seq.], or any other law, for projects contemplated by this Act, as amended, and to do all things, to exercise any and all powers, and to assume and fulfill any and all obligations, duties, responsibilities, and requirements, including but not limited to those relating to planning or zoning, necessary or desirable for receiving such Federal assistance, except that such authority shall not be given any power of taxation, nor any power to pledge the faith and credit of the people of the Virgin Islands for any loan whatever.

*([July 18, 1950, ch. 466](/us/act/1950-07-18/ch466), title III, § 301, [64 Stat. 346](/us/stat/64/346); [Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783](/us/act/1955-08-11/ch783), title I, § 107(5), (7), (9), [69 Stat. 638](/us/stat/69/638).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 171, Eighty-First Congress), as amended, referred to in text, is [act July 15, 1949, ch. 338](/us/act/1949-07-15/ch338), [63 Stat. 413](/us/stat/63/413), which is classified principally to chapter 8A (§ 1441 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1441 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1441) and Tables.

This Act, referred to in text, means [act July 18, 1950, ch. 466](/us/act/1950-07-18/ch466), [64 Stat. 344](/us/stat/64/344), known as the Territorial Enabling Act of 1950, which enacted this subchapter and sections 480 to 480b, 483a, 483b, 721 to 721b, and 910 to 910b of this title, amended sections 481 to 483 and 722 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 480, 481, and 722 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

1955—Act Aug. 11, 1955, included urban renewal projects, and inserted “as amended” after “Housing Act of 1949” and after “this Act”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Urban Renewal Activities

[Act Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783, title I, § 107(4)](/us/act/1955-08-11/ch783/tI/s107/4), [69 Stat. 638](/us/stat/69/638), amended the heading of title III of the Territorial Enabling Act of 1950, this subchapter, to insert the words “urban renewal” in order to make financial assistance available for urban renewal projects.
