---
title: "§ 2115. Selection boards; information to be furnished boards"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 88–130, § 1(10)(C)](/us/pl/88/130/s1/10/C), Sept. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 180](/us/stat/77/180), § 258; amended [Pub. L. 89–444, § 1(17)](/us/pl/89/444/s1/17), June 9, 1966, [80 Stat. 196](/us/stat/80/196); [Pub. L. 104–324, title II, § 212](/us/pl/104/324/tII/s212), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3915](/us/stat/110/3915); [Pub. L. 111–281, title II, § 212(2)](/us/pl/111/281/tII/s212/2), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2914](/us/stat/124/2914); renumbered § 2115 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, ti"
---
# § 2115. Selection boards; information to be furnished boards

##### § 2115. Selection boards; information to be furnished boards

(a) In General.— The Secretary shall furnish the appropriate selection board convened under [section 2106 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2106) with—

(1) the number of officers that the board may recommend for promotion to the next higher grade;

(2) the names and records of all officers who are eligible for consideration for promotion to the grade to which the board will recommend officers for promotion; and

(3) in the case of an eligible officer considered for promotion to a rank above lieutenant, any credible information of an adverse nature, including any substantiated adverse finding or conclusion from an officially documented investigation or inquiry and any information placed in the personnel service record of the officer under section 1745(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 ([Public Law 113–66](/us/pl/113/66); [10 U.S.C. 1561](/us/usc/t10/s1561) note), shall be furnished to the selection board in accordance with standards and procedures set out in the regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

(b) Provision of Direction and Guidance.—

(1) In addition to the information provided pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary may furnish the selection board—

(A) specific direction relating to the needs of the Coast Guard for officers having particular skills, including direction relating to the need for a minimum number of officers with particular skills within a specialty; and

(B) any other guidance that the Secretary believes may be necessary to enable the board to properly perform its functions.

(2) Selections made based on the direction and guidance provided under this subsection shall not exceed the maximum percentage of officers who may be selected from below the announced promotion zone at any given selection board convened under [section 2106 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2106).

*(Added [Pub. L. 88–130, § 1(10)(C)](/us/pl/88/130/s1/10/C), Sept. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 180](/us/stat/77/180), § 258; amended [Pub. L. 89–444, § 1(17)](/us/pl/89/444/s1/17), June 9, 1966, [80 Stat. 196](/us/stat/80/196); [Pub. L. 104–324, title II, § 212](/us/pl/104/324/tII/s212), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3915](/us/stat/110/3915); [Pub. L. 111–281, title II, § 212(2)](/us/pl/111/281/tII/s212/2), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2914](/us/stat/124/2914); renumbered § 2115 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 112(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4216](/us/stat/132/4216), 4240; [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, § 11245(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXII/s11245/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4043](/us/stat/136/4043).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) added par. (3).

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 112(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s112/b), renumbered [section 258 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s258) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 2106” for “section 251” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 2106” for “section 251”.

2010—[Pub. L. 111–281](/us/pl/111/281) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, substituted “with—” for “with:” in introductory provisions, and added subsec. (b).

1996—Cl. (2). [Pub. L. 104–324](/us/pl/104/324) struck out “, with identification of those officers who are in the promotion zone” after “officers for promotion”.

1966—[Pub. L. 89–444](/us/pl/89/444) substituted “officers who are eligible for consideration for promotion to the grade to which the board will recommend officers for promotion” for “officers to be considered by the board” in cl. 2.
