---
title: "§ 1462. Policies governing information activities"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1462"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1462"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Jan. 27, 1948, ch. 36](/us/act/1948-01-27/ch36), title V, § 502, [62 Stat. 10](/us/stat/62/10); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1078(d)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1078/d/1), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1958](/us/stat/126/1958).)"
---
# § 1462. Policies governing information activities

##### § 1462. Policies governing information activities

In authorizing international information activities under this chapter, it is the sense of the Congress (1) that the Secretary and the Broadcasting Board of Governors shall reduce such Government information activities whenever corresponding private information dissemination is found to be adequate; (2) that nothing in this chapter shall be construed to give the Department or the Broadcasting Board of Governors a monopoly in the production or sponsorship on the air of short-wave broadcasting programs, or a monopoly in any other medium of information.

*([Jan. 27, 1948, ch. 36](/us/act/1948-01-27/ch36), title V, § 502, [62 Stat. 10](/us/stat/62/10); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1078(d)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1078/d/1), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1958](/us/stat/126/1958).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2013—[Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) inserted “and the Broadcasting Board of Governors” after “Secretary” and “or the Broadcasting Board of Governors” after “Department”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Broadcasting Board of Governors renamed United States Agency for Global Media pursuant to [section 6204(a)(21) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6204/a/21). The renaming was effectuated by notice to congressional appropriations committees dated May 24, 2018, and became effective Aug. 22, 2018.

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) effective and applicable on the date that is 180 days after Jan. 2, 2013, see [section 1078(e) of Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239/s1078/e), set out as a note under [section 1437 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1437).
