---
title: "§ 3240. Report on best practices to protect privacy, civil liberties, and civil rights of Chinese Americans"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3240"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3240"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1110, formerly [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LVII, § 5712](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLVII/s5712), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2171](/us/stat/133/2171); renumbered § 1110 of act July 26, 1947, and amended [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title VI, § 620(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tVI/s620/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2401](/us/stat/134/2401).)"
---
# § 3240. Report on best practices to protect privacy, civil liberties, and civil rights of Chinese Americans

##### § 3240. Report on best practices to protect privacy, civil liberties, and civil rights of Chinese Americans

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that—

(1) the People’s Republic of China appears to be specifically targeting the Chinese-American community for intelligence purposes;

(2) such targeting carries a substantial risk that the loyalty of such Americans may be generally questioned and lead to unacceptable stereotyping, targeting, and racial profiling;

(3) the United States Government has a duty to warn and protect all Americans including those of Chinese descent from these intelligence efforts by the People’s Republic of China;

(4) the broad stereotyping, targeting, and racial profiling of Americans of Chinese descent is contrary to the values of the United States and reinforces the flawed narrative perpetuated by the People’s Republic of China that ethnically Chinese individuals worldwide have a duty to support the People’s Republic of China; and

(5) the United States efforts to combat the People’s Republic of China’s intelligence activities should actively safeguard and promote the constitutional rights of all Chinese Americans.

(b) Report On an annual basis, the Director of National Intelligence, acting through the Office of Civil Liberties, Privacy, and Transparency, in coordination with the civil liberties and privacy officers of the elements of the intelligence community, shall submit a report to the congressional intelligence committees containing—

(1) a review of how the policies, procedures, and practices of the intelligence community that govern the intelligence activities and operations targeting the People’s Republic of China affect policies, procedures, and practices relating to the privacy, civil liberties, and civil rights of Americans of Chinese descent who may be targets of espionage and influence operations by China; and

(2) recommendations to ensure that the privacy, civil liberties, and civil rights of Americans of Chinese descent are sufficiently protected.

(c) Form The report under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1110, formerly [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LVII, § 5712](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLVII/s5712), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2171](/us/stat/133/2171); renumbered § 1110 of act July 26, 1947, and amended [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title VI, § 620(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tVI/s620/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2401](/us/stat/134/2401).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—[Pub. L. 116–260, § 620(a)(4)(A)](/us/pl/116/260/s620/a/4/A), substituted “, civil liberties, and civil rights” for “and civil liberties” in section catchline.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 620(a)(4)(B)](/us/pl/116/260/s620/a/4/B), substituted “On an annual basis,” for “Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,” in introductory provisions and “, civil liberties, and civil rights” for “and civil liberties” in pars. (1) and (2).
