---
title: "§ 604. Removal of snags, etc., from Mississippi River"
identifier: "USC-T33-S604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Aug. 11, 1888, ch. 860](/us/act/1888-08-11/ch860), §§ 1, 7, [25 Stat. 421](/us/stat/25/421), 424; [Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 264, § 3](/us/act/1909-03-03/ch264/s3), [35 Stat. 817](/us/stat/35/817); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1076, § 1(15)](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1076/s1/15), [68 Stat. 967](/us/stat/68/967).)"
---
# § 604. Removal of snags, etc., from Mississippi River

##### § 604. Removal of snags, etc., from Mississippi River

For the purpose of removing snags, wrecks, and other obstructions in the Mississippi River, the Atchafalaya and Old Rivers from the junction with the Mississippi and Red Rivers down the Atchafalaya River as far down as Melville, Louisiana, the Secretary of the Army, upon the application of the Chief of Engineers, is authorized to draw his warrant or requisition from time to time upon the Secretary of the Treasury for such sums as may be necessary to do such work, not to exceed in the aggregate for each year the sum of $100,000.

*([Aug. 11, 1888, ch. 860](/us/act/1888-08-11/ch860), §§ 1, 7, [25 Stat. 421](/us/stat/25/421), 424; [Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 264, § 3](/us/act/1909-03-03/ch264/s3), [35 Stat. 817](/us/stat/35/817); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1076, § 1(15)](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1076/s1/15), [68 Stat. 967](/us/stat/68/967).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1888, act Aug. 11, 1888, as affected by act Mar. 3, 1909.

Act Mar. 3, 1909, made the provisions of act Aug. 11, 1888, for the removal of snags applicable to “the Atchafalaya and Old Rivers from the junction with the Mississippi and Red Rivers down the Atchafalaya River as far as Melville, Louisiana.”

Section 7 of act Aug. 11, 1888, provided for “securing the uninterrupted work of operating snag boats on the upper Mississippi River” as well as for the removal of snags. The provision for operating snag boats is set out as [section 605 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s605).

The words “the sum of $100,000” are substituted for “the amounts appropriated in this act for such purposes.” An appropriation of $100,000 for removal of snags is contained in section 1 of the act.

#### Amendments

1954—Act Aug. 30, 1954, repealed proviso requiring that an itemized statement of expenses incurred in the removal of snags, etc., as provided in this section, should accompany the annual report of the Chief of Engineers.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Appropriations

[Act June 26, 1934, ch. 756, § 2](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch756/s2), [48 Stat. 1225](/us/stat/48/1225), which was classified to section 725a of former Title 31, Money and Finance, repealed the permanent appropriation under the title “Removing obstructions in Mississippi, Atchafalaya, and Old Rivers (fiscal year) (8–961.58)” effective July 1, 1935, and provided that such portions of any Acts as make permanent appropriations to be expended under such account are amended so as to authorize, in lieu thereof, annual appropriations from the general fund of the Treasury in identical terms and in such amounts as now provided by the laws providing such permanent appropriations.
