---
title: "§ 3333. Chairperson of Appraisal Subcommittee; term of Chairperson; meetings"
identifier: "USC-T12-S3333"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section3333"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–73, title XI, § 1104](/us/pl/101/73/tXI/s1104), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 512](/us/stat/103/512); [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1473(c)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1473/c), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2191](/us/stat/124/2191).)"
---
# § 3333. Chairperson of Appraisal Subcommittee; term of Chairperson; meetings

##### § 3333. Chairperson of Appraisal Subcommittee; term of Chairperson; meetings

(a) Chairperson The Council shall select the Chairperson of the subcommittee. The term of the Chairperson shall be 2 years.

(b) Meetings; quorum; voting The Appraisal Subcommittee shall meet in public session after notice in the Federal Register, but may close certain portions of these meetings related to personnel and review of preliminary State audit reports, at the call of the Chairperson or a majority of its members when there is business to be conducted. A majority of members of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum but 2 or more members may hold hearings. Decisions of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall be made by the vote of a majority of its members. The subject matter discussed in any closed or executive session shall be described in the Federal Register notice of the meeting.

*([Pub. L. 101–73, title XI, § 1104](/us/pl/101/73/tXI/s1104), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 512](/us/stat/103/512); [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1473(c)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1473/c), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2191](/us/stat/124/2191).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) inserted “in public session after notice in the Federal Register, but may close certain portions of these meetings related to personnel and review of preliminary State audit reports,” after “shall meet” and “The subject matter discussed in any closed or executive session shall be described in the Federal Register notice of the meeting.” at the end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the date on which final regulations implementing that amendment take effect, or on the date that is 18 months after the designated transfer date if such regulations have not been issued by that date, see [section 1400(c) of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1400/c), set out as a note under [section 1601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1601), Commerce and Trade.
