---
title: "§ 8933. Ocean Research Advisory Panel"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8933"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8933"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title II, § 282(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tII/s282/a/1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2473](/us/stat/110/2473), § 7903; amended [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title II, § 241(b)(1)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tII/s241/b/1), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1666](/us/stat/111/1666); [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, § 1084](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tX/s1084), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1004](/us/stat/129/1004); renumbered § 8933, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(14)](/us/pl/115/232/dA"
---
# § 8933. Ocean Research Advisory Panel

##### § 8933. Ocean Research Advisory Panel

(a) Establishment.—

(1) The Ocean Policy Committee shall establish an Ocean Research Advisory Panel (in this section referred to as the “Advisory Panel”). The Advisory Panel shall consist of not fewer than 10 and not more than 18 members appointed by the co-chairs of the Committee, including each of the following:

(A) Three members who represent the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine.

(B) Members selected from among individuals who represent the views of ocean industries, State, tribal, territorial or local governments, academia, and such other views as the co-chairs consider appropriate.

(C) Members selected from among individuals eminent in the fields of marine science, marine technology, and marine policy, or related fields.

(2) The Committee shall ensure that an appropriate balance of academic, scientific, industry, and geographical interests and gender and racial diversity are represented by the members of the Advisory Panel.

(b) Responsibilities.— The Committee shall assign the following responsibilities to the Advisory Panel:

(1) To advise the Committee on policies and procedures to implement the National Oceanographic Partnership Program.

(2) To advise the Committee on matters relating to national oceanographic science, engineering, facilities, or resource requirements.

(3) To advise the Committee on improving diversity, equity, and inclusion in the ocean sciences and related fields.

(4) To advise the Committee on national ocean research priorities.

(5) Any additional responsibilities that the Committee considers appropriate.

(c) Meetings.— The Committee shall require the Advisory Panel to meet not less frequently than two times each year.

(d) Administrative and Technical Support.— The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall provide to the Advisory Panel such administrative and technical support as the Advisory Panel may require.

(e) Termination.— Notwithstanding section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.),11 See References in Text note below. the Advisory Panel shall terminate on January 1, 2040.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title II, § 282(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tII/s282/a/1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2473](/us/stat/110/2473), § 7903; amended [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title II, § 241(b)(1)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tII/s241/b/1), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1666](/us/stat/111/1666); [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title X, § 1084](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tX/s1084), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1004](/us/stat/129/1004); renumbered § 8933, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(14)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/14), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1837](/us/stat/132/1837); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, § 1055(c)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tX/s1055/c), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3854](/us/stat/134/3854).)*

#### References in Text

Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (e), is [section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463](/us/pl/92/463/s14), which was set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and was repealed and restated as [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013) by [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286), §§ 3(a), 7, Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4204](/us/stat/136/4204), 4361.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to establishment, membership, and responsibilities of Ocean Research Advisory Panel.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 7903 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7903) as this section.

2015—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–92](/us/pl/114/92) struck out subsec. (c). Text read as follows: “The Secretary of the Navy annually shall make funds available to support the activities of the Advisory Panel.”

1997—[Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(a) Establishment.—The Council shall establish an Ocean Research Advisory Panel consisting of not less than 10 and not more than 18 members appointed by the Council from among persons eminent in the fields of marine science or marine policy, or related fields, and who are representative, at a minimum, of the interests of government, academia, and industry.

“(b) Responsibilities.—The Council shall assign to the Advisory Panel responsibilities that the Council considers appropriate.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Effective Date of 1997 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) effective as of Sept. 23, 1996, as if included in [section 282 of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s282), see [section 241(d) of Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85/s241/d), set out as a note under [section 7902 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7902).

#### Initial Appointments of Panel Members

[Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title II, § 282(b)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tII/s282/b), formerly § 282(c), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2473](/us/stat/110/2473), as renumbered and amended by [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title II, § 241(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tII/s241/b/2), (c)(2), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1666](/us/stat/111/1666), provided that the National Ocean Research Leadership Council established by [10 U.S.C. 8932](/us/usc/t10/s8932) was to make the appointments required by this section not later than Jan. 1, 1998.
