---
title: "§ 6517. Effect of subchapter"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6517"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6517"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–148, title I, § 107](/us/pl/108/148/tI/s107), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1900](/us/stat/117/1900).)"
---
# § 6517. Effect of subchapter

##### § 6517. Effect of subchapter

(a) Other authority Nothing in this subchapter affects, or otherwise biases, the use by the Secretary of other statutory or administrative authority (including categorical exclusions adopted to implement the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ([42 U.S.C. 4321](/us/usc/t42/s4321) et seq.)) to conduct a hazardous fuel reduction project on Federal land (including Federal land identified in [section 6512(d) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6512/d)) that is not conducted using the process authorized by [section 6514 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6514).

(b) National Forest System For projects and activities of the National Forest System other than authorized hazardous fuel reduction projects, nothing in this subchapter affects, or otherwise biases, the notice, comment, and appeal procedures for projects and activities of the National Forest System contained in part 215 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations, or the consideration or disposition of any legal action brought with respect to the procedures.

*([Pub. L. 108–148, title I, § 107](/us/pl/108/148/tI/s107), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1900](/us/stat/117/1900).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 91–190](/us/pl/91/190), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 852](/us/stat/83/852), which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4321 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4321) and Tables.
