---
title: "§ 6203. Issuance of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6203"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6203"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1954](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1954), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3872](/us/stat/104/3872).)"
---
# § 6203. Issuance of orders

##### § 6203. Issuance of orders

(a) In general Subject to this chapter, and to effectuate the declared purposes of this chapter, the Secretary shall issue and, from time to time, amend lime research, promotion, and consumer information orders applicable to handlers, producers, producer-handlers, and importers of limes. Any such order shall be national in scope. Not more than one order shall be in effect under this chapter at any one time.

(b) Procedure

(1) Proposal for issuance of order Any person that will be affected by this chapter may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for, an order under this chapter.

(2) Proposed order Not later than 60 days after the receipt of a request and proposal by an interested person for an order, the Secretary shall publish a proposed order and give due notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order.

(3) Issuance of order After notice and opportunity for public comment are given, as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue an order, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the order provisions necessary to ensure that the order is in conformity with the requirements of this chapter.

(4) Effective date of order Such order shall be issued and become effective not later than 150 days following publication of the proposed order.

(c) Amendments The Secretary, from time to time, may amend any order issued under this section. The provisions of this chapter applicable to orders shall be applicable to amendments to orders.

*([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1954](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1954), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3872](/us/stat/104/3872).)*
