---
title: "§ 2113. Reemployment compensation"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2113"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2113"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 273](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s273), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3238](/us/stat/106/3238); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXII, § 6202(d)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXII/s6202/d), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2186](/us/stat/133/2186).)"
---
# § 2113. Reemployment compensation

##### § 2113. Reemployment compensation

(a) Deduction from basic pay An annuitant who has retired under this subchapter and who is reemployed in the Federal Government service in any appointive position (either on a part-time or full-time basis) shall be entitled to receive the annuity payable under this subchapter, but there shall be deducted from the annuitant’s basic pay a sum equal to the annuity allocable to the period of actual employment.

(b) Part-time reemployed annuitants The Director shall have the authority to reemploy an annuitant on a part-time basis in accordance with section 8344(*l*) of title 5.

(c) Recovery of overpayments In the event of an overpayment under this section, the amount of the overpayment shall be recovered by withholding the amount involved from the basic pay payable to such reemployed annuitant or from any other moneys, including the annuitant’s annuity, payable in accordance with this subchapter.

(d) Deposit in fund Sums deducted from the basic pay of a reemployed annuitant under this section shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the fund.

*([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 273](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s273), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3238](/us/stat/106/3238); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXII, § 6202(d)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXII/s6202/d), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2186](/us/stat/133/2186).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 273 of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s273), title II, Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1053](/us/stat/78/1053); [Pub. L. 99–335, title V, § 501(2)](/us/pl/99/335/tV/s501/2), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 622](/us/stat/100/622), related to reemployment compensation and was set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403) prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643) by [section 802 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s802).

#### Amendments

2019—Subsecs. (b) to (d). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) added subsec. (b) and redesignated former subsecs. (b) and (c) as (c) and (d), respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Waiver of Dual Compensation Provisions

For waiver of application of the dual compensation reduction provisions of this section for temporary employees during an emergency, see Ex. Ord. No. 13236, Nov. 27, 2001, 66 F.R. 59671, set out as a note under [section 2141 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2141).
