---
title: "§ 300j–19d. Review of technologies"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300j–19d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300j–19d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIV, § 1459D, as added [Pub. L. 115–270, title II, § 2017](/us/pl/115/270/tII/s2017), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3856](/us/stat/132/3856).)"
---
# § 300j–19d. Review of technologies

##### § 300j–19d. Review of technologies

(a) Review The Administrator, after consultation with appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government and with State and local governments, shall review (or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements to provide for a review of) existing and potential methods, means, equipment, and technologies (including review of cost, availability, and efficacy of such methods, means, equipment, and technologies) that—

(1) ensure the physical integrity of community water systems;

(2) prevent, detect, and respond to any contaminant for which a national primary drinking water regulation has been promulgated in community water systems and source water for community water systems;

(3) allow for use of alternate drinking water supplies from nontraditional sources; and

(4) facilitate source water assessment and protection.

(b) Inclusions The review under subsection (a) shall include review of methods, means, equipment, and technologies—

(1) that are used for corrosion protection, metering, leak detection, or protection against water loss;

(2) that are intelligent systems, including hardware, software, or other technology, used to assist in protection and detection described in paragraph (1);

(3) that are point-of-use devices or point-of-entry devices;

(4) that are physical or electronic systems that monitor, or assist in monitoring, contaminants in drinking water in real-time; and

(5) that allow for the use of nontraditional sources for drinking water, including physical separation and chemical and biological transformation technologies.

(c) Availability The Administrator shall make the results of the review under subsection (a) available to the public.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2019, which shall remain available until expended.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIV, § 1459D, as added [Pub. L. 115–270, title II, § 2017](/us/pl/115/270/tII/s2017), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3856](/us/stat/132/3856).)*
