---
title: "§ 9076. Limitation on certain employee compensation"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9076"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9076"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title IV, § 4116](/us/pl/116/136/dA/tIV/s4116), Mar. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 500](/us/stat/134/500).)"
---
# § 9076. Limitation on certain employee compensation

##### § 9076. Limitation on certain employee compensation

(a) In general The Secretary may only provide financial assistance under this part to an air carrier or contractor after such carrier or contractor enters into an agreement with the Secretary which provides that, during the 2-year period beginning March 24, 2020, and ending March 24, 2022, no officer or employee of the air carrier or contractor whose total compensation exceeded $425,000 in calendar year 2019 (other than an employee whose compensation is determined through an existing collective bargaining agreement entered into prior to March 27, 2020)—

(1) will receive from the air carrier or contractor total compensation which exceeds, during any 12 consecutive months of such 2-year period, the total compensation received by the officer or employee from the air carrier or contractor in calendar year 2019;

(2) will receive from the air carrier or contractor severance pay or other benefits upon termination of employment with the air carrier or contractor which exceeds twice the maximum total compensation received by the officer or employee from the air carrier or contractor in calendar year 2019; and

(3) no officer or employee of the eligible business whose total compensation exceeded $3,000,000 in calendar year 2019 may receive during any 12 consecutive months of such period total compensation in excess of the sum of—

(A) $3,000,000; and

(B) 50 percent of the excess over $3,000,000 of the total compensation received by the officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar year 2019.

(b) Total compensation defined In this section, the term “total compensation” includes salary, bonuses, awards of stock, and other financial benefits provided by an air carrier or contractor to an officer or employee of the air carrier or contractor.

*([Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title IV, § 4116](/us/pl/116/136/dA/tIV/s4116), Mar. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 500](/us/stat/134/500).)*
