---
title: "§ 6758. Liability of the Association and the Board members, officers, and employees of the Association"
identifier: "USC-T15-S6758"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section6758"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–102, title III, § 328](/us/pl/106/102/tIII/s328), as added [Pub. L. 114–1, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/114/1/tII/s202/a), Jan. 12, 2015, [129 Stat. 25](/us/stat/129/25).)"
---
# § 6758. Liability of the Association and the Board members, officers, and employees of the Association

##### § 6758. Liability of the Association and the Board members, officers, and employees of the Association

(a) In general The Association shall not be deemed to be an insurer or insurance producer within the meaning of any State law, rule, regulation, or order regulating or taxing insurers, insurance producers, or other entities engaged in the business of insurance, including provisions imposing premium taxes, regulating insurer solvency or financial condition, establishing guaranty funds and levying assessments, or requiring claims settlement practices.

(b) Liability of Board members, officers, and employees No Board member, officer, or employee of the Association shall be personally liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in good faith in any matter within the scope of their responsibilities in connection with the Association.

*([Pub. L. 106–102, title III, § 328](/us/pl/106/102/tIII/s328), as added [Pub. L. 114–1, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/114/1/tII/s202/a), Jan. 12, 2015, [129 Stat. 25](/us/stat/129/25).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to this section were contained in [section 6761 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s6761), prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 114–1](/us/pl/114/1).

A prior section 6758, [Pub. L. 106–102, title III, § 328](/us/pl/106/102/tIII/s328), Nov. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1427](/us/stat/113/1427), related to bylaws, rules, and disciplinary action, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 114–1](/us/pl/114/1). See [section 6755 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s6755).
