---
title: "§ 2487. Relationship between defense commissary system and exchange stores system"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2487"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2487"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VI, § 651(b)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tVI/s651/b/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1971](/us/stat/118/1971); amended [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, § 642](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tVI/s642), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1466](/us/stat/125/1466); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VI, § 661(d)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVI/s661/d), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2171](/us/stat/130/2171).)"
---
# § 2487. Relationship between defense commissary system and exchange stores system

##### § 2487. Relationship between defense commissary system and exchange stores system

(a) Separate Operation of Systems.—

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the defense commissary system and the exchange stores system shall be operated as separate systems of the Department of Defense.

(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply to the following:

(A) Combined exchange and commissary stores operated under the authority provided by [section 2489 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2489).

(B) NEXMART stores of the Navy Exchange Service Command established before October 1, 2003.

(b) Consolidation or Other Organizational Changes of Defense Retail Systems.—

(1) The operation and administration of the defense retail systems may not be consolidated or otherwise merged unless the consolidation or merger is specifically authorized by an Act of Congress.

(2) In this subsection, the term “defense retail systems” means the defense commissary system and exchange stores system and other revenue-generating facilities operated by nonappropriated fund instrumentalities of the Department of Defense for the morale, welfare, and recreation of members of the armed forces.

(c) Common Business Practices.—

(1) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of Defense may establish common business processes, practices, and systems—

(A) to exploit synergies between the defense commissary system and the exchange system; and

(B) to optimize the operations of the defense retail systems as a whole and the benefits provided by the commissaries and exchanges.

(2) The Secretary may authorize the defense commissary system and the exchange system to enter into contracts or other agreements—

(A) for products and services that are shared by the defense commissary system and the exchange system; and

(B) for the acquisition of supplies, resale goods, and services on behalf of both the defense commissary system and the exchange system.

(3) For the purpose of a contract or agreement authorized under paragraph (2), the Secretary may—

(A) use funds appropriated pursuant to [section 2483 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2483) to reimburse a nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality for the portion of the cost of a contract or agreement entered by the nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality that is attributable to the defense commissary system; and

(B) authorize the defense commissary system to accept reimbursement from a nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality for the portion of the cost of a contract or agreement entered by the defense commissary system that is attributable to the nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality.

(d) Access of Exchange Stores System to Federal Financing Bank.— To facilitate the provision of in-store credit to patrons of the exchange stores system while reducing the costs of providing such credit, the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, Navy Exchange Service Command, and Marine Corps exchanges may issue and sell their obligations to the Federal Financing Bank as provided in section 6 of the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973 ([12 U.S.C. 2285](/us/usc/t12/s2285)).

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VI, § 651(b)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tVI/s651/b/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1971](/us/stat/118/1971); amended [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, § 642](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tVI/s642), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1466](/us/stat/125/1466); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VI, § 661(d)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVI/s661/d), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2171](/us/stat/130/2171).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2487, added [Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title III, § 313(a)](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tIII/s313/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3852](/us/stat/100/3852); amended [Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title III, § 364(a)](/us/pl/102/484/dA/tIII/s364/a), (b)(2), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2381](/us/stat/106/2381), 2382; [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title III, § 332](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tIII/s332), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 260](/us/stat/110/260); [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title III, § 333(a)](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tIII/s333/a), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1058](/us/stat/115/1058), related to release of certain commercially valuable information to the public by the Secretary of Defense with respect to commissary stores, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VI, § 651(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tVI/s651/a/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1964](/us/stat/118/1964).

#### Amendments

2016—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

2011—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–81](/us/pl/112/81) added subsec. (c).
