---
title: "§ 6743. Prohibition relating to unscheduled discrete organic chemicals and coincidental byproducts in waste streams"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6743"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6743"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tIV/s403), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–881](/us/stat/112/2681-881).)"
---
# § 6743. Prohibition relating to unscheduled discrete organic chemicals and coincidental byproducts in waste streams

##### § 6743. Prohibition relating to unscheduled discrete organic chemicals and coincidental byproducts in waste streams

(a) 11 So in original. No subsec. (b) has been enacted. Prohibition Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no person located in the United States shall be required to report on, or to submit to, any routine inspection conducted for the purpose of verifying the production, possession, consumption, exportation, importation, or proposed production, possession, consumption, exportation, or importation of any substance that is—

(1) an unscheduled discrete organic chemical; and

(2) a coincidental byproduct of a manufacturing or production process that is not isolated or captured for use or sale during the process and is routed to, or escapes, from the waste stream of a stack, incinerator, or wastewater treatment system or any other waste stream.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tIV/s403), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–881](/us/stat/112/2681-881).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this division”, meaning div. I of [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–856](/us/stat/112/2681-856), known as the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of division I to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6701 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6701) and Tables.
