---
title: "§ 11372a. Amount and allocation of assistance"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11372a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11372a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s413), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title II, § 1201(4)](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tII/s1201/4), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1678](/us/stat/123/1678).)"
---
# § 11372a. Amount and allocation of assistance

##### § 11372a. Amount and allocation of assistance

(a) In general Of the amount made available to carry out this part and part C for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall allocate nationally 20 percent of such amount for activities described in [section 11374 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11374). The Secretary shall be required to certify that such allocation will not adversely affect the renewal of existing projects under this part and part C for those individuals or families who are homeless.

(b) Allocation An entity that receives a grant under [section 11372 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11372), and serves an area that includes 1 or more geographic areas (or portions of such areas) served by collaborative applicants that submit applications under part C, shall allocate the funds made available through the grant to carry out activities described in [section 11374 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11374), in consultation with the collaborative applicants.

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s413), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title II, § 1201(4)](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tII/s1201/4), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1678](/us/stat/123/1678).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 413 of Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77/s413) was renumbered section 414 and is classified to [section 11373 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11373).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of 18 months after May 20, 2009, or 3 months after publication of certain final regulations by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see [section 1503 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1503), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 11302 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11302).
