---
title: "§ 819. Posting of orders and decisions"
identifier: "USC-T30-S819"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section819"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–173, title I, § 109](/us/pl/91/173/tI/s109), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 756](/us/stat/83/756); [Pub. L. 95–164, title II, § 201](/us/pl/95/164/tII/s201), Nov. 9, 1977, [91 Stat. 1310](/us/stat/91/1310).)"
---
# § 819. Posting of orders and decisions

##### § 819. Posting of orders and decisions

(a) Mine office; bulletin board At each coal or other mine there shall be maintained an office with a conspicuous sign designating it as the office of such mine. There shall be a bulletin board at such office or located at a conspicuous place near an entrance of such mine, in such manner that orders, citations, notices and decisions required by law or regulation to be posted, may be posted thereon, and be easily visible to all persons desiring to read them, and be protected against damage by weather and against unauthorized removal. A copy of any order, citation, notice or decision required by this chapter to be given to an operator shall be delivered to the office of the affected mine, and a copy shall be immediately posted on the bulletin board of such mine by the operator or his agent.

(b) Distribution of orders, citations, notices, and decisions The Secretary shall (1) cause a copy of any order, citation, notice, or decision required by this chapter to be given to an operator to be mailed immediately to a representative of the miners in the affected coal or other mine, and (2) cause a copy thereof to be mailed to the public official or agency of the State charged with administering State laws, if any, relating to health or safety in such mine. Such notice, order, citation, or decision shall be available for public inspection.

(c) Compliance In order to insure prompt compliance with any notice, order, citation, or decision issued under this chapter, the authorized representative of the Secretary may deliver such notice, order, citation, or decision to an agent of the operator, and such agent shall immediately take appropriate measures to insure compliance with such notice, order, citation, or decision.

(d) Filing; designation of health and safety officers Each operator of a coal or other mine subject to this chapter shall file with the Secretary the name and address of such mine and the name and address of the person who controls or operates the mine. Any revisions in such names or addresses shall be promptly filed with the Secretary. Each operator of a coal or other mine subject to this chapter shall designate a responsible official at such mine as the principal officer in charge of health and safety at such mine, and such official shall receive a copy of any notice, order, citation, or decision issued under this chapter affecting such mine. In any case where the mine is subject to the control of any person not directly involved in the daily operations of the coal or other mine, there shall be filed with the Secretary the name and address of such person and the name and address of a principal official of such person who shall have overall responsibility for the conduct of an effective health and safety program at any coal or other mine subject to the control of such person, and such official shall receive a copy of any notice, order, citation, or decision issued affecting any such mine. The mere designation of a health and safety official under this subsection shall not be construed as making such official subject to any penalty under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 91–173, title I, § 109](/us/pl/91/173/tI/s109), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 756](/us/stat/83/756); [Pub. L. 95–164, title II, § 201](/us/pl/95/164/tII/s201), Nov. 9, 1977, [91 Stat. 1310](/us/stat/91/1310).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–173](/us/pl/91/173), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 742](/us/stat/83/742), known as the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s801) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1977—[Pub. L. 95–164](/us/pl/95/164) substituted provisions relating to the posting of orders and decisions for provisions setting out an enumeration of penalties, which provisions, as revised, were transferred to [section 820 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s820).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–164](/us/pl/95/164) effective 120 days after Nov. 9, 1977, except as otherwise provided, see [section 307 of Pub. L. 95–164](/us/pl/95/164/s307), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s801).

#### Effective Date

Section operative 90 days after Dec. 30, 1969, except to the extent an earlier date is specifically provided for in [Pub. L. 91–173](/us/pl/91/173), see [section 509 of Pub. L. 91–173](/us/pl/91/173/s509), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s801).
