---
title: "§ 17304. Penalties"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title VIII, § 814](/us/pl/110/140/tVIII/s814), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1724](/us/stat/121/1724).)"
---
# § 17304. Penalties

##### § 17304. Penalties

(a) Civil penalty In addition to any penalty applicable under the Federal Trade Commission Act ([15 U.S.C. 41](/us/usc/t15/s41) et seq.), any supplier that violates section 17301 or 17302 of this title shall be punishable by a civil penalty of not more than $1,000,000.

(b) Method The penalties provided by subsection (a) shall be obtained in the same manner as civil penalties imposed under section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act ([15 U.S.C. 45](/us/usc/t15/s45)).

(c) Multiple offenses; mitigating factors In assessing the penalty provided by subsection (a)—

(1) each day of a continuing violation shall be considered a separate violation; and

(2) the court shall take into consideration, among other factors—

(A) the seriousness of the violation; and

(B) the efforts of the person committing the violation to remedy the harm caused by the violation in a timely manner.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title VIII, § 814](/us/pl/110/140/tVIII/s814), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1724](/us/stat/121/1724).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311](/us/act/1914-09-26/ch311), [38 Stat. 717](/us/stat/38/717), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 58 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s58) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
