---
title: "§ 8235. “Residential building” defined"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8235"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8235"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–619, title II, § 261](/us/pl/95/619/tII/s261), as added [Pub. L. 96–294, title V, § 562](/us/pl/96/294/tV/s562), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 746](/us/stat/94/746).)"
---
# § 8235. “Residential building” defined

##### § 8235. “Residential building” defined

As used in this part, the term “residential building” means any building used as a residence which is not a new building to which final standards under sections 6833(a) and 6834 11 See References in Text note below. of this title apply and which has a system for heating, cooling, or both.

*([Pub. L. 95–619, title II, § 261](/us/pl/95/619/tII/s261), as added [Pub. L. 96–294, title V, § 562](/us/pl/96/294/tV/s562), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 746](/us/stat/94/746).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 6834 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6834), referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 97–35, title X, § 1041(b)](/us/pl/97/35/tX/s1041/b), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 621](/us/stat/95/621).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Statement of Purpose

[Pub. L. 96–294, title V, § 561](/us/pl/96/294/tV/s561), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 746](/us/stat/94/746), provided that: “It is the purpose of this subtitle [subtitle C (§§ 561–563) of title V of [Pub. L. 96–294](/us/pl/96/294), enacting this part]— “(1) to establish a program under which the Secretary of Energy may provide assistance to State and local governments to encourage up to four demonstration programs that make energy conservation measures available without charge to residential property owners and tenants under a plan designed to maximize the energy savings available in residential buildings in designated areas; and “(2) to demonstrate through such program prototype residential energy efficiency plans under which State and local governments, State regulatory authorities, and public utilities may participate in a cooperative manner with public or private entities to install energy conservation measures in the greatest possible number of residential buildings within their respective jurisdictions or service areas.”
