---
title: "§ 7384w–1. Completion of site profiles"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7384w–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7384w–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3633]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3633), as added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3166(c)](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3166/c), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2189](/us/stat/118/2189).)"
---
# § 7384w–1. Completion of site profiles

##### § 7384w–1. Completion of site profiles

(a) In general To the extent that the Secretary of Labor determines it useful and practicable, the Secretary of Labor shall direct the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health to prepare site profiles for a Department of Energy facility based on the records, files, and other data provided by the Secretary of Energy and such other information as is available, including information available from the former worker medical screening programs of the Department of Energy.

(b) Information The Secretary of Energy shall furnish to the Secretary of Labor any information that the Secretary of Labor finds necessary or useful for the production of such site profiles, including records from the Department of Energy former worker medical screening program.

(c) Definition In this section, the term “site profile” means an exposure assessment of a facility that identifies the toxic substances or processes that were commonly used in each building or process of the facility, and the time frame during which the potential for exposure to toxic substances existed.

(d) Time frames The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish time frames for completing site profiles for those Department of Energy facilities for which a site profile has not been completed. Not later than March 1, 2005, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress a report setting forth those time frames.

*([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3633]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3633), as added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3166(c)](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3166/c), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2189](/us/stat/118/2189).)*
