---
title: "§ 10533. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10533"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10533"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2503](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2503), as added [Pub. L. 105–181, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/105/181/s3/a/3), June 16, 1998, [112 Stat. 514](/us/stat/112/514); amended [Pub. L. 106–517, § 3(d)](/us/pl/106/517/s3/d), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2408](/us/stat/114/2408).)"
---
# § 10533. Definitions

##### § 10533. Definitions

(1) the term “armor vest” means—

(A) body armor, no less than Type I, which has been tested through the voluntary compliance testing program operated by the National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Center of the National Institute of Justice (NIJ), and found to meet or exceed the requirements of NIJ Standard 0101.03, or any subsequent revision of such standard; or

(B) body armor that has been tested through the voluntary compliance testing program, and found to meet or exceed the requirements of NIJ Standard 0115.00, or any revision of such standard;

(2) the term “body armor” means any product sold or offered for sale as personal protective body covering intended to protect against gunfire, stabbing, or other physical harm;

(3) the term “State” means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands;

(4) the term “unit of local government” means a county, municipality, town, township, village, parish, borough, or other unit of general government below the State level;

(5) the term “Indian tribe” has the same meaning as in [section 5304(e) of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304/e); and

(6) the term “law enforcement officer” means any officer, agent, or employee of a State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe authorized by law or by a government agency to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, or investigation of any violation of criminal law, or authorized by law to supervise sentenced criminal offenders.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2503](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2503), as added [Pub. L. 105–181, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/105/181/s3/a/3), June 16, 1998, [112 Stat. 514](/us/stat/112/514); amended [Pub. L. 106–517, § 3(d)](/us/pl/106/517/s3/d), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2408](/us/stat/114/2408).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 3796*ll*–2 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2000—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 106–517](/us/pl/106/517) designated provisions after “ ‘armor vest’ means” as subpar. (A) and added subpar. (B).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Interim Definition of Armor Vest

[Pub. L. 106–517, § 3(e)](/us/pl/106/517/s3/e), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2408](/us/stat/114/2408), provided that: “For purposes of part Y of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 [[34 U.S.C. 10531](/us/usc/t34/s10531) et seq.], as amended by this Act, the meaning of the term ‘armor vest’ (as defined in section 2503 of such Act ([42 U.S.C. 3796](/us/usc/t42/s3796)*ll*–2) [now [34 U.S.C. 10533](/us/usc/t34/s10533)]) shall, until the date on which a final NIJ Standard 0115.00 is first fully approved and implemented, also include body armor which has been found to meet or exceed the requirements for protection against stabbing established by the State in which the grantee is located.”
