---
title: "§ 1826c. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1826c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1826c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–582, title I, § 104](/us/pl/102/582/tI/s104), Nov. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 4903](/us/stat/106/4903).)"
---
# § 1826c. Definitions

##### § 1826c. Definitions

(1) Fish and fish products The term “fish and fish products” means any aquatic species (including marine mammals and plants) and all products thereof exported from a nation, whether or not taken by fishing vessels of that nation or packed, processed, or otherwise prepared for export in that nation or within the jurisdiction thereof.

(2) Large-scale driftnet fishing

(A) In general Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term “large-scale driftnet fishing” means a method of fishing in which a gillnet composed of a panel or panels of webbing, or a series of such gillnets, with a total length of two and one-half kilometers or more is placed in the water and allowed to drift with the currents and winds for the purpose of entangling fish in the webbing.

(B) Exception Until January 1, 1994, the term “large-scale driftnet fishing” does not include the use in the northeast Atlantic Ocean of gillnets with a total length not to exceed five kilometers if the use is in accordance with regulations adopted by the European Community pursuant to the October 28, 1991, decision by the Council of Fisheries Ministers of the Community.

(3) Large-scale driftnet fishing vessel The term “large-scale driftnet fishing vessel” means any vessel which is—

(A) used for, equipped to be used for, or of a type which is normally used for large-scale driftnet fishing; or

(B) used for aiding or assisting one or more vessels at sea in the performance of large-scale driftnet fishing, including preparation, supply, storage, refrigeration, transportation, or processing.

*([Pub. L. 102–582, title I, § 104](/us/pl/102/582/tI/s104), Nov. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 4903](/us/stat/106/4903).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 1826a to 1826c of this title, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 102–582](/us/pl/102/582), Nov. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 4901](/us/stat/106/4901), which enacted sections 1826a to 1826c of this title and amended [section 1371 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1371). For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the High Seas Driftnet Fisheries Enforcement Act, and not as part of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act which comprises this chapter.
