---
title: "§ 2694b. Participation in wetland mitigation banks"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2694b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2694b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title III, § 314(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tIII/s314/a/1), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1430](/us/stat/117/1430).)"
---
# § 2694b. Participation in wetland mitigation banks

##### § 2694b. Participation in wetland mitigation banks

(a) Authority to Participate.— The Secretary of a military department, and the Secretary of Defense with respect to matters concerning a Defense Agency, when engaged in an authorized activity that may or will result in the destruction of, or an adverse impact to, a wetland, may make payments to a wetland mitigation banking program or “in-lieu-fee” mitigation sponsor approved in accordance with the Federal Guidance for the Establishment, Use and Operation of Mitigation Banks (60 Fed. Reg. 58605; November 28, 1995) or the Federal Guidance on the Use of In-Lieu-Fee Arrangements for Compensatory Mitigation Under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act and Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act (65 Fed. Reg. 66913; November 7, 2000), or any successor administrative guidance or regulation.

(b) Alternative to Creation of Wetland.— Participation in a wetland mitigation banking program or consolidated user site under subsection (a) shall be in lieu of mitigating wetland impacts through the creation of a wetland on Federal property.

(c) Treatment of Payments.— Payments made under subsection (a) to a wetland mitigation banking program or consolidated user site may be treated as eligible project costs for military construction.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title III, § 314(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tIII/s314/a/1), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1430](/us/stat/117/1430).)*
