---
title: "§ 12571. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12571"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12571"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title XX, § 200202](/us/pl/103/322/tXX/s200202), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2057](/us/stat/108/2057); [Pub. L. 105–244, title I, § 102(a)(13)(P)](/us/pl/105/244/tI/s102/a/13/P), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1621](/us/stat/112/1621).)"
---
# § 12571. Definitions

##### § 12571. Definitions

In this part—

- “Director” means the Director of the Office of the Police Corps and Law Enforcement Education appointed under section 12553 11 So in original. [Section 12553 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12553) does not provide for the appointment of a Director. of this title.

- “educational expenses” means expenses that are directly attributable to—

- (A) a course of education leading to the award of an associate degree;

- (B) a course of education leading to the award of a baccalaureate degree; or

- (C) a course of graduate study following award of a baccalaureate degree,

- including the cost of tuition, fees, books, supplies, and related expenses.

- “institution of higher education” has the meaning stated in the first sentence of [section 1001 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

- “law enforcement position” means employment as an officer in a State or local police force, or correctional institution.

- “State” means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title XX, § 200202](/us/pl/103/322/tXX/s200202), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2057](/us/stat/108/2057); [Pub. L. 105–244, title I, § 102(a)(13)(P)](/us/pl/105/244/tI/s102/a/13/P), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1621](/us/stat/112/1621).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14111 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14111), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1998—[Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) substituted “section 1001” for “section 1141(a)” in par. defining “institution of higher education”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as a note under [section 1001 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001), Education.

#### Short Title

For short title of subtitle B of title XX of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), which is classified to this part, as the “Law Enforcement Scholarships and Recruitment Act”, see [section 200201 of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s200201), set out as a Short Title of 1994 Act note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
