---
title: "§ 334. Basis of property received in liquidations"
identifier: "USC-T26-S334"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section334"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 104](/us/stat/68A/104); [Pub. L. 89–809, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/89/809/tII/s202/a), (b), Nov. 13, 1966, [80 Stat. 1576](/us/stat/80/1576); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX), §§ 1901(a)(45), 1906(b)(13)(A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1772](/us/stat/90/1772), 1834; [Pub. L. 97–248, title II](/us/pl/97/248/tII), §§ 222(e)(1)(C), 224(b), Sept. 3, 1982, [96 Stat. 480](/us/stat/96/480), 488; [Pub. L. 99–514, title VI, § 631"
---
# § 334. Basis of property received in liquidations

##### § 334. Basis of property received in liquidations

(a) General rule If property is received in a distribution in complete liquidation, and if gain or loss is recognized on receipt of such property, then the basis of the property in the hands of the distributee shall be the fair market value of such property at the time of the distribution.

(b) Liquidation of subsidiary

(1) In general If property is received by a corporate distributee in a distribution in a complete liquidation to which section 332 applies (or in a transfer described in section 337(b)(1)), the basis of such property in the hands of such distributee shall be the same as it would be in the hands of the transferor; except that, in the hands of such distributee—

(A) the basis of such property shall be the fair market value of the property at the time of the distribution in any case in which gain or loss is recognized by the liquidating corporation with respect to such property, and

(B) the basis of any property described in section 362(e)(1)(B) shall be the fair market value of the property at the time of the distribution in any case in which such distributee’s aggregate adjusted basis of such property would (but for this subparagraph) exceed the fair market value of such property immediately after such liquidation.

(2) Corporate distributee For purposes of this subsection, the term “corporate distributee” means only the corporation which meets the stock ownership requirements specified in section 332(b).

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 104](/us/stat/68A/104); [Pub. L. 89–809, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/89/809/tII/s202/a), (b), Nov. 13, 1966, [80 Stat. 1576](/us/stat/80/1576); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX), §§ 1901(a)(45), 1906(b)(13)(A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1772](/us/stat/90/1772), 1834; [Pub. L. 97–248, title II](/us/pl/97/248/tII), §§ 222(e)(1)(C), 224(b), Sept. 3, 1982, [96 Stat. 480](/us/stat/96/480), 488; [Pub. L. 99–514, title VI, § 631(e)(4)](/us/pl/99/514/tVI/s631/e/4), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2273](/us/stat/100/2273); [Pub. L. 100–647, title I, § 1006(e)(6)](/us/pl/100/647/tI/s1006/e/6), Nov. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 3401](/us/stat/102/3401); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. J, title III, § 3001(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/277/dJ/tIII/s3001/b/2), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–904](/us/stat/112/2681-904); [Pub. L. 108–357, title VIII, § 836(b)](/us/pl/108/357/tVIII/s836/b), Oct. 22, 2004, [118 Stat. 1595](/us/stat/118/1595); [Pub. L. 109–135, title IV, § 403(dd)(1)](/us/pl/109/135/tIV/s403/dd/1), Dec. 21, 2005, [119 Stat. 2630](/us/stat/119/2630).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2005—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 109–135](/us/pl/109/135) substituted “except that, in the hands of such distributee—” for “except that the basis of such property in the hands of such distributee shall be the fair market value of the property at the time of the distribution—” in introductory provisions, added subpars. (A) and (B), and struck out former subpars. (A) and (B) which read as follows:

“(A) in any case in which gain or loss is recognized by the liquidating corporation with respect to such property, or

“(B) in any case in which the liquidating corporation is a foreign corporation, the corporate distributee is a domestic corporation, and the corporate distributee’s aggregate adjusted bases of property described in section 362(e)(1)(B) which is distributed in such liquidation would (but for this subparagraph) exceed the fair market value of such property immediately after such liquidation.”

2004—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 108–357](/us/pl/108/357) reenacted heading without change and amended text of par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “If property is received by a corporate distributee in a distribution in a complete liquidation to which section 332 applies (or in a transfer described in section 337(b)(1)), the basis of such property in the hands of such distributee shall be the same as it would be in the hands of the transferor; except that, in any case in which gain or loss is recognized by the liquidating corporation with respect to such property, the basis of such property in the hands of such distributee shall be the fair market value of the property at the time of the distribution.”

1998—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) substituted “section 332” for “section 332(a)”.

1988—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–647](/us/pl/100/647) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows:

“(1) Distribution in complete liquidation.—If property is received by a corporation in a distribution in a complete liquidation to which section 332(a) applies, the basis of the property in the hands of the distributee shall be the same as it would be in the hands of the transferor.

“(2) Transfers to which section 332(c) applies.—If property is received by a corporation in a transfer to which section 332(c) applies, the basis of the property in the hands of the transferee shall be the same as it would be in the hands of the transferor.

“(3) Distributee defined.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘distributee’ means only the corporation which meets the 80-percent stock ownership requirements specified in section 332(b).”

1986—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–514, § 631(e)(4)(A)](/us/pl/99/514/s631/e/4/A), struck out “(other than a distribution to which section 333 applies)” after “liquidation”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 99–514, § 631(e)(4)(B)](/us/pl/99/514/s631/e/4/B), struck out subsec. (c) relating to property received in liquidation under section 333.

1982—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 97–248, § 222(e)(1)(C)](/us/pl/97/248/s222/e/1/C), struck out “partial or” before “complete liquidation”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 97–248, § 224(b)](/us/pl/97/248/s224/b), struck out heading to par. (1) “In general”, redesignated first sentence as par. (1) with heading “Distribution in complete liquidation”, in par. (1) as so redesignated substituted reference to section 332(a) for reference to section 332(b) relating to a distribution in complete liquidation, struck out reference to par. (2) as an exception to the determination of basis, redesignated second sentence as par. (2) with heading “Transfers to which section 332(c) applies”, in par. (2) as so redesignated struck out reference to par. (2) as an exception to the determination of basis, struck out par. (2) which had provided that if property was received by a corporation in a distribution in complete liquidation of another corporation and if the distribution was pursuant to a plan of liquidation adopted not more than 2 years after the date of the transaction described below, or in the case of a series of transactions, the date of the last such transaction, and stock of the distributing corporation possessing at least 80 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote, and at least 80 percent of the total number of shares of all other classes of stock (except nonvoting stock which was limited and preferred as to dividends), was acquired by the distributee by purchase (as defined in par. (3)) during a 12-month period beginning with the earlier of the date of the first acquisition by purchase of such stock, or if any of such stock was acquired in an acquisition which is a purchase within the meaning of second sentence of par. (3), the date on which the distributee was first considered under section 318(a) as owning stock owned by the corporation from which such acquisition was made, then the basis of the property in the hands of the distributee would be the adjusted basis of the stock with respect to which the distribution was made, and under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, proper adjustment in the adjusted basis of any stock would be made for any distribution made to the distributee with respect to such stock before the adoption of the plan of liquidation, for any money received, for any liabilities assumed or subject to which the property was received, and for other items, and struck out par. (3) which provided that “purchase” meant any acquisition of stock, but only if the basis of the stock in the hands of the distributee was not determined in whole or in part by reference to the adjusted basis of such stock in the hands of the person from whom acquired, or under [section 1014(a) of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1014/a) the stock was not acquired in an exchange to which [section 351 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s351) applies, and the stock was not acquired from a person the ownership of whose stock would, under [section 318(a) of this title](/us/usc/t26/s318/a), be attributed to the person acquiring such stock, but that “purchase” also meant an acquisition of stock from a corporation when ownership of such stock would be attributed under section 318(a) to the person acquiring such stock, if the stock of such corporation by reason of which such ownership would be attributed was acquired by purchase, and redesignated par. (4) as (3).

1976—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455), §§ 1901(a)(45), 1906(b)(13)(A), struck out in subpar. (A) provision relating to distributions made pursuant to a plan of liquidation adopted on or before June 22, 1954, and in provisions following subpar. (B)(ii) “or his delegate” after “Secretary”.

1966—Subsec. (b)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 89–809, § 202(b)](/us/pl/89/809/s202/b), inserted provisions for the determination of the date on which to commence the running of the 12-month period during which the distributee must have acquired the stock by purchase by adding clauses (i) and (ii).

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 89–809, § 202(a)](/us/pl/89/809/s202/a), inserted provision that, for purposes of par. (2)(B), “purchase” also means an acquisition of stock from a corporation when ownership of such stock would be attributed under section 318(a) to the person acquiring such stock, if the stock of such corporation by reason of which such ownership would be attributed was acquired by purchase.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2005 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–135](/us/pl/109/135) effective as if included in the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, [Pub. L. 108–357](/us/pl/108/357), to which such amendment relates, see [section 403(nn) of Pub. L. 109–135](/us/pl/109/135/s403/nn), set out as a note under [section 26 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s26).

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–357, title VIII, § 836(c)(2)](/us/pl/108/357/tVIII/s836/c/2), Oct. 22, 2004, [118 Stat. 1596](/us/stat/118/1596), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (b) [amending this section] shall apply to liquidations after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 22, 2004].”

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) applicable to distributions after May 21, 1998, see [section 3001(c) of Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277/s3001/c), set out as a note under [section 332 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s332).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–647](/us/pl/100/647) effective, except as otherwise provided, as if included in the provision of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514), to which such amendment relates, see [section 1019(a) of Pub. L. 100–647](/us/pl/100/647/s1019/a), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1).

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) applicable to any distribution in complete liquidation, and any sale or exchange, made by a corporation after July 31, 1986, unless such corporation is completely liquidated before Jan. 1, 1987, any transaction described in [section 338 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s338) for which the acquisition date occurs after Dec. 31, 1986, and any distribution, not in complete liquidation, made after Dec. 31, 1986, with exceptions and special and transitional rules, see [section 633 of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s633), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 336 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s336).

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [section 222(e)(1)(C) of Pub. L. 97–248](/us/pl/97/248/s222/e/1/C) applicable to distributions after Aug. 31, 1982, with exceptions for certain partial liquidations, see [section 222(f) of Pub. L. 97–248](/us/pl/97/248/s222/f), set out as a note under [section 302 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s302).

Amendment by [section 224(b) of Pub. L. 97–248](/us/pl/97/248/s224/b) applicable to any target corporation with respect to which the acquisition date occurs after Aug. 31, 1982, with special rules for certain acquisitions before Sept. 1, 1982, and certain acquisitions of financial institutions in which there was a binding contract on July 22, 1982, to acquire control, see [section 224(d) of Pub. L. 97–248](/us/pl/97/248/s224/d), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 338 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s338).

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [section 1901(a)(45) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s1901/a/45) effective for taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1976, see [section 1901(d) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s1901/d), set out as a note under [section 2 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2).

#### Effective Date of 1966 Amendment

[Pub. L. 89–809, title II, § 202(d)](/us/pl/89/809/tII/s202/d), Nov. 13, 1966, [80 Stat. 1576](/us/stat/80/1576), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply only with respect to acquisitions of stock after December 31, 1965. The amendment made by subsections (b) and (c) [amending this section and [section 453 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s453)] shall apply only with respect to distributions made after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 13, 1966].”

#### Adjustment for Liability to Basis of Property Distributed in Complete Liquidation of Corporation Prior to July 1, 1957; Deduction for Uncompensated Liability

[Pub. L. 93–497, § 3](/us/pl/93/497/s3), Oct. 29, 1974, [88 Stat. 1534](/us/stat/88/1534), as amended by [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095), provided that: “(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 334 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [formerly I.R.C. 1954] (relating to basis of property received in liquidations), no adjustment to the basis of any property distributed in complete liquidation of a corporation prior to July 1, 1957, shall be made for any liability if—“(1) the distributor and distributee did not consider the liability relevant to the value of the stock with respect to which the distribution was made, “(2) the distributor and distributee reasonably relied upon a decision of a United States district court specifically adjudicating the amount of the liability and its affirmance by the appropriate United States court of appeals, and “(3) the amount of liability so adjudicated was not greater than would be compensated for by insurance. The provisions of this section apply without regard to whether such decision was subsequently reversed or modified by that United States court of appeals following distribution of such property in complete liquidation. “(b) To the extent that the liability described in subsection (a) is not compensated for by insurance or otherwise, the amount thereof shall be allowed as a deduction under the appropriate provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for the taxable year in which payment thereof was made and shall be effective in determining income tax liabilities of all taxable years prior thereto.”
