---
title: "§ 18851. Wage rate requirements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18851"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18851"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title XI, § 41101](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tXI/s41101), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1130](/us/stat/135/1130).)"
---
# § 18851. Wage rate requirements

##### § 18851. Wage rate requirements

(a) Davis-Bacon All laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of construction, alteration, or repair work on a project assisted in whole or in part by funding made available under this division or an amendment made by this division shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar projects in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40 (commonly referred to as the “Davis-Bacon Act”).

(b) Authority With respect to the labor standards specified in subsection (a), the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 ([64 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/64/1267); 5 U.S.C. App.) and [section 3145 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s3145).

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title XI, § 41101](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tXI/s41101), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1130](/us/stat/135/1130).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This division, referred to in subsec. (a), is div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 923](/us/stat/135/923), which enacted this chapter and enacted and amended numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of div. D to the Code, see Tables.

The Davis-Bacon Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Mar. 3, 1931, ch. 411](/us/act/1931-03-03/ch411), [46 Stat. 1494](/us/stat/46/1494), which was classified generally to sections 276a to 276a–5 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and was repealed and reenacted as sections 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950, referred to in subsec. (b), is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
