---
title: "§ 6561. Abolition of United States International Development Cooperation Agency"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6561"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6561"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XIV, § 1411, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–790](/us/stat/112/2681-790).)"
---
# § 6561. Abolition of United States International Development Cooperation Agency

##### § 6561. Abolition of United States International Development Cooperation Agency

(a) In general Except for the components specified in subsection (b), the United States International Development Cooperation Agency (including the Institute for Scientific and Technological Cooperation) is abolished.

(b) AID and OPIC exempted Subsection (a) does not apply to the Agency for International Development or the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XIV, § 1411, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–790](/us/stat/112/2681-790).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XIV, § 1401, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–790](/us/stat/112/2681-790), provided that: “This title [see Tables for classification], and the amendments made by this title, shall take effect on the earlier of— “(1) April 1, 1999; or “(2) the date of abolition [Apr. 1, 1999] of the United States International Development Cooperation Agency pursuant to the reorganization plan described in section 1601 [[22 U.S.C. 6601](/us/usc/t22/s6601)].”

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation to the United States International Development Finance Corporation and treatment of related references, see sections 9683 and 9686(d) of this title.
