---
title: "§ 31132. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S31132"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section31132"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1000](/us/stat/108/1000); [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 104(f)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s104/f), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 919](/us/stat/109/919); [Pub. L. 105–178, title IV, § 4008(a)](/us/pl/105/178/tIV/s4008/a), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 404](/us/stat/112/404); [Pub. L. 109–59, title IV, § 4116(c)](/us/pl/109/59/tIV/s4116/c), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1728](/us/stat/119/1728).)"
---
# § 31132. Definitions

##### § 31132. Definitions

(1) “commercial motor vehicle” means a self-propelled or towed vehicle used on the highways in interstate commerce to transport passengers or property, if the vehicle—

(A) has a gross vehicle weight rating or gross vehicle weight of at least 10,001 pounds, whichever is greater;

(B) is designed or used to transport more than 8 passengers (including the driver) for compensation;

(C) is designed or used to transport more than 15 passengers, including the driver, and is not used to transport passengers for compensation; or

(D) is used in transporting material found by the Secretary of Transportation to be hazardous under [section 5103 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s5103) and transported in a quantity requiring placarding under regulations prescribed by the Secretary under section 5103.

(2) “employee” means an operator of a commercial motor vehicle (including an independent contractor when operating a commercial motor vehicle), a mechanic, a freight handler, or an individual not an employer, who—

(A) directly affects commercial motor vehicle safety in the course of employment; and

(B) is not an employee of the United States Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State acting in the course of the employment by the Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State.

(3) “employer”—

(A) means a person engaged in a business affecting interstate commerce that owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle in connection with that business, or assigns an employee to operate it; but

(B) does not include the Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State.

(4) “interstate commerce” means trade, traffic, or transportation in the United States between a place in a State and—

(A) a place outside that State (including a place outside the United States); or

(B) another place in the same State through another State or through a place outside the United States.

(5) “intrastate commerce” means trade, traffic, or transportation in a State that is not interstate commerce.

(6) “medical examiner” means an individual licensed, certified, or registered in accordance with regulations issued by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration as a medical examiner.

(7) “regulation” includes a standard or order.

(8) “State” means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and, in sections 31136 and 31140–31142 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, a political subdivision of a State.

(9) “State law” includes a law enacted by a political subdivision of a State.

(10) “State regulation” includes a regulation prescribed by a political subdivision of a State.

(11) “United States” means the States of the United States and the District of Columbia.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1000](/us/stat/108/1000); [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 104(f)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s104/f), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 919](/us/stat/109/919); [Pub. L. 105–178, title IV, § 4008(a)](/us/pl/105/178/tIV/s4008/a), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 404](/us/stat/112/404); [Pub. L. 109–59, title IV, § 4116(c)](/us/pl/109/59/tIV/s4116/c), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1728](/us/stat/119/1728).)*

The text of 49 App.:2503(6) is omitted as unnecessary because of 1:1. The text of 49 App.:2503(8) is omitted as surplus because the complete name of the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Regulatory Review Panel is used the first time the term appears in a section. The text of 49 App.:2503(9) is omitted as surplus because the complete name of the Secretary of Transportation is used the first time the term appears in a section.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 31132 | 49 App.:2503. | Oct. 30, 1984, Pub. L. 98–554, § 204, 98 Stat. 2833. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 31140 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31140), referred to in par. (8), was repealed by [Pub. L. 105–178, title IV, § 4008(d)](/us/pl/105/178/tIV/s4008/d), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 404](/us/stat/112/404).

#### Amendments

2005—Pars. (6) to (11). [Pub. L. 109–59](/us/pl/109/59) added par. (6) and redesignated former pars. (6) to (10) as (7) to (11), respectively.

1998—Par. (1)(A). [Pub. L. 105–178, § 4008(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/178/s4008/a/1), inserted “or gross vehicle weight” after “rating” and “, whichever is greater” after “pounds”.

Par. (1)(B). [Pub. L. 105–178, § 4008(a)(2)](/us/pl/105/178/s4008/a/2), which directed substitution of “more than 8 passengers (including the driver) for compensation;” for “passengers” and all that follows through semicolon at end, was executed by making the substitution for “passengers for compensation, but excluding vehicles providing taxicab service and having a capacity of not more than 6 passengers and not operated on a regular route or between specified places;” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

1995—Par. (1)(B) to (D). [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88) added subpars. (B) and (C), redesignated former subpar. (C) as (D), and struck out former subpar. (B) which read as follows: “is designed to transport more than 15 passengers including the driver; or”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1995 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88) effective Jan. 1, 1996, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
