---
title: "§ 1395w–152. Miscellaneous provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1395w–152"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1395w–152"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVIII, § 1860D–42, as added [Pub. L. 108–173, title I, § 101(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/173/tI/s101/a/2), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2149](/us/stat/117/2149); amended [Pub. L. 111–152, title I, § 1101(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/152/tI/s1101/a/1), Mar. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/124/1036); [Pub. L. 114–198, title VII, § 704(d)](/us/pl/114/198/tVII/s704/d), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 750](/us/stat/130/750).)"
---
# § 1395w–152. Miscellaneous provisions

##### § 1395w–152. Miscellaneous provisions

(a) Access to coverage in territories The Secretary may waive such requirements of this part, including [section 1395w–103(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395w–103/a/1), insofar as the Secretary determines it is necessary to secure access to qualified prescription drug coverage for part D eligible individuals residing in a State (other than the 50 States and the District of Columbia).

(b) Application of demonstration authority The provisions of section 402 of the Social Security Amendments of 1967 ([Public Law 90–248](/us/pl/90/248)) shall apply with respect to this part and part C in the same manner it applies with respect to parts A and B, except that any reference with respect to a Trust Fund in relation to an experiment or demonstration project relating to prescription drug coverage under this part shall be deemed a reference to the Medicare Prescription Drug Account within the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

(c) Coverage gap rebate for 2010

(1) In general In the case of an individual described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of [section 1395w–114a(g)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395w–114a/g/1) who as of the last day of a calendar quarter in 2010 has incurred costs for covered part D drugs so that the individual has exceeded the initial coverage limit under [section 1395w–102(b)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395w–102/b/3) for 2010, the Secretary shall provide for payment from the Medicare Prescription Drug Account of $250 to the individual by not later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of such quarter.

(2) Limitation The Secretary shall provide only 1 payment under this subsection with respect to any individual.

(d) Treatment of certain complaints for purposes of quality or performance assessment In conducting a quality or performance assessment of a PDP sponsor, the Secretary shall develop or utilize existing screening methods for reviewing and considering complaints that are received from enrollees in a prescription drug plan offered by such PDP sponsor and that are complaints regarding the lack of access by the individual to prescription drugs due to a drug management program for at-risk beneficiaries.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVIII, § 1860D–42, as added [Pub. L. 108–173, title I, § 101(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/173/tI/s101/a/2), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2149](/us/stat/117/2149); amended [Pub. L. 111–152, title I, § 1101(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/152/tI/s1101/a/1), Mar. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/124/1036); [Pub. L. 114–198, title VII, § 704(d)](/us/pl/114/198/tVII/s704/d), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 750](/us/stat/130/750).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 402 of the Social Security Amendments of 1967, referred to in subsec. (b), is [section 402 of Pub. L. 90–248](/us/pl/90/248/s402), title IV, Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 930](/us/stat/81/930), which enacted [section 1395b–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395b–1) and amended section 1395*ll* of this title.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 114–198](/us/pl/114/198) added subsec. (d).

2010—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–152](/us/pl/111/152) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–198](/us/pl/114/198) applicable to prescription drug plans (and MA–PD plans) for plan years beginning on or after Jan. 1, 2019, see [section 704(g)(1) of Pub. L. 114–198](/us/pl/114/198/s704/g/1), set out as a note under [section 1395w–101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395w–101).
