---
title: "§ 8032. Strategic plan"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8032"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8032"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXV, § 3552](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXV/s3552), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2006](/us/stat/133/2006).)"
---
# § 8032. Strategic plan

##### § 8032. Strategic plan

(a) Strategic plan Not later than 2 years after December 20, 2019, the Working Group, after consultation with the relevant stakeholders, shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a 5-year integrated strategic plan on combating IUU fishing and enhancing maritime security, including specific strategies with monitoring benchmarks for addressing IUU fishing in priority regions.

(b) Identification of priority regions and priority flag states

(1) In general The strategic plan submitted under subsection (a) shall identify priority regions and priority flag states to be the focus of assistance coordinated by the Working Group under [section 8031 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8031).

(2) Priority region selection criteria In selecting priority regions under paragraph (1), the Working Group shall select regions that—

(A) are at high risk for IUU fishing activity or the entry of illegally caught seafood into their markets; and

(B) lack the capacity to fully address the issues described in subparagraph (A).

(3) Priority flag states selection criteria In selecting priority flag states under paragraph (1), the Working Group shall select countries—

(A) the flagged vessels of which actively engage in, knowingly profit from, or are complicit in IUU fishing; and

(B) that lack the capacity to police their fleet.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXV, § 3552](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXV/s3552), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2006](/us/stat/133/2006).)*
