---
title: "§ 867. Art. 67. Review by the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces"
identifier: "USC-T10-S867"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section867"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 60](/us/stat/70A/60); [Pub. L. 88–426, title IV, § 403(j)](/us/pl/88/426/tIV/s403/j), Aug. 14, 1964, [78 Stat. 434](/us/stat/78/434); [Pub. L. 90–340, § 1](/us/pl/90/340/s1), June 15, 1968, [82 Stat. 178](/us/stat/82/178); [Pub. L. 90–632, § 2(28)](/us/pl/90/632/s2/28), Oct. 24, 1968, [82 Stat. 1342](/us/stat/82/1342); [Pub. L. 96–579, § 12(a)](/us/pl/96/579/s12/a), Dec. 23, 1980, [94 Stat. 3369](/us/stat/94/3369); [Pub. L. 97–81,"
---
# § 867. Art. 67. Review by the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

##### § 867. Art. 67. Review by the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

(a) The Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces shall review the record in—

(1) all cases in which the sentence, as affirmed by a Court of Criminal Appeals, extends to death;

(2) all cases reviewed by a Court of Criminal Appeals which the Judge Advocate General, after appropriate notification to the other Judge Advocates General and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, orders sent to the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for review; and

(3) all cases reviewed by a Court of Criminal Appeals in which, upon petition of the accused and on good cause shown, the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces has granted a review.

(b) The accused may petition the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for review of a decision of a Court of Criminal Appeals within 60 days from the earlier of—

The Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces shall act upon such a petition promptly in accordance with the rules of the court.

(1) the date on which the accused is notified of the decision of the Court of Criminal Appeals; or

(2) the date on which a copy of the decision of the Court of Criminal Appeals, after being served on appellate counsel of record for the accused (if any), is deposited in the United States mails for delivery by first-class certified mail to the accused at an address provided by the accused or, if no such address has been provided by the accused, at the latest address listed for the accused in his official service record.

(c)

(1) In any case reviewed by it, the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces may act only with respect to—

(A) the findings and sentence set forth in the entry of judgment, as affirmed or set aside as incorrect in law by the Court of Criminal Appeals;

(B) a decision, judgment, or order by a military judge, as affirmed or set aside as incorrect in law by the Court of Criminal Appeals; or

(C) the findings set forth in the entry of judgment, as affirmed, dismissed, set aside, or modfied by the Court of Criminal Appeals as incorrect in fact under [section 866(d)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s866/d/1/B) (article 66(d)(1)(B)).

(2) In a case which the Judge Advocate General orders sent to the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, that action need be taken only with respect to the issues raised by him.

(3) In a case reviewed upon petition of the accused, that action need be taken only with respect to issues specified in the grant of review.

(4) The Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces shall take action only with respect to matters of law.

(d) If the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces sets aside the findings and sentence, it may, except where the setting aside is based on lack of sufficient evidence in the record to support the findings, order a rehearing. If it sets aside the findings and sentence and does not order a rehearing, it shall order that the charges be dismissed.

(e) After it has acted on a case, the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces may direct the Judge Advocate General to return the record to the Court of Criminal Appeals for further review in accordance with the decision of the court. Otherwise, unless there is to be further action by the President or the Secretary concerned, the Judge Advocate General shall instruct the convening authority to take action in accordance with that decision. If the court has ordered a rehearing, but the convening authority finds a rehearing impracticable, he may dismiss the charges. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a case was referred to trial by a special trial counsel, a special trial counsel shall determine if a rehearing is impracticable and shall dismiss the charges if the special trial counsel so determines.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 60](/us/stat/70A/60); [Pub. L. 88–426, title IV, § 403(j)](/us/pl/88/426/tIV/s403/j), Aug. 14, 1964, [78 Stat. 434](/us/stat/78/434); [Pub. L. 90–340, § 1](/us/pl/90/340/s1), June 15, 1968, [82 Stat. 178](/us/stat/82/178); [Pub. L. 90–632, § 2(28)](/us/pl/90/632/s2/28), Oct. 24, 1968, [82 Stat. 1342](/us/stat/82/1342); [Pub. L. 96–579, § 12(a)](/us/pl/96/579/s12/a), Dec. 23, 1980, [94 Stat. 3369](/us/stat/94/3369); [Pub. L. 97–81, § 5](/us/pl/97/81/s5), Nov. 20, 1981, [95 Stat. 1088](/us/stat/95/1088); [Pub. L. 97–295, § 1(12)](/us/pl/97/295/s1/12), Oct. 12, 1982, [96 Stat. 1289](/us/stat/96/1289); [Pub. L. 98–209](/us/pl/98/209), §§ 7(d), 9(a), 10(c)(2), 13(d), Dec. 6, 1983, [97 Stat. 1402](/us/stat/97/1402), 1404, 1406, 1408; [Pub. L. 100–26, § 7(a)(2)](/us/pl/100/26/s7/a/2), Apr. 21, 1987, [101 Stat. 275](/us/stat/101/275); [Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title VII, § 722(a)](/us/pl/100/456/dA/tVII/s722/a), (c), Sept. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 2002](/us/stat/102/2002), 2003; [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XIII, § 1301(a)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tXIII/s1301/a), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1569](/us/stat/103/1569); [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title IX, § 924(c)(1)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIX/s924/c/1), (2), (4)(B), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2831](/us/stat/108/2831), 2832; [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LIX, § 5331](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLIX/s5331), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2934](/us/stat/130/2934); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title V, § 542(c)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tV/s542/c), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3612](/us/stat/134/3612); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, § 539A(c)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tV/s539A/c), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1699](/us/stat/135/1699).)*

In subsection (a)(1), the word “is” is substituted for the words “is hereby established”. The words “all” and “which shall be” are omitted as surplusage. The word “consists” is substituted for the words “shall consist”. The word “civil” is substituted for the word “civilian”. The word “may” is substituted for the word “shall” before the words “be appointed”. The word “is” is substituted for the word “shall” before the words “any person”. The words “is entitled to” are substituted for the words “shall receive”. The word “is” is substituted for the words “shall be” in the fourth sentence. The word “may” is substituted for the words “shall have power to * * * to”. The word “does” is substituted for the word “shall” in the next to the last sentence. In the last sentence, the words “is entitled * * * to” are substituted for the word “shall”. The word “outside” is substituted for the words “at a place other than his official station. The official station of such judges for such purpose shall be”. The words “also” and “actually” are omitted as surplusage.

In subsection (a)(2), the words “February 28, 1951,” are substituted for the words “the effective date of this subdivision”. The word “shall” in the first sentence, and the word “shall” before the word “expire” in the second sentence, are omitted as surplusage. The word “before” is substituted for the words “prior to”. The word “may” is substituted for the word “shall” before the words “be appointed”.

In subsection (a)(3), the word “for” is substituted for the words “upon the ground of”.

In subsection (b), the words “the following cases” are omitted as surplusage.

In subsections (b) and (d), the word “sent” is substituted for the word “forwarded”.

In subsection (c), the word “when” is inserted after the word “time”. The words “a grant of” are omitted as surplusage.

In subsection (d), the word “may” is substituted for the word “shall” in the first sentence.

In subsection (f), the words “Secretary concerned” are substituted for the words “Secretary of the Department”.

In subsection (g), the words “of the armed forces” are omitted as surplusage. The words “policies as to sentences” are substituted for the words “sentence policies”. The word “considered” is substituted for the word “deemed”. The words “Secretaries of the military departments, and the Secretary of the Treasury” are substituted for the words “Secretaries of the Departments”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1956 Act |  |  |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 867(a)867(b)867(c)867(d) | 50:654(a).50:654(b).50:654(c).50:654(d). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 67), 64 Stat. 129; Mar. 2, 1955, ch. 9, § 1(i), 69 Stat. 10. |
| 867(e) | 50:654(e). |  |
| 867(f) | 50:654(f). |  |
| 867(g) | 50:654(g). |  |

#### 1982 Act

In subsection (d), the words “Court of Military Review” are substituted for “board of review” because of section 3(b) of the Military Justice Act of 1968 ([Pub. L. 90–632](/us/pl/90/632), Oct. 24, 1968, [82 Stat. 1343](/us/stat/82/1343)).

The change in subsection (g) reflects the transfer of functions from the Secretary of the Treasury to the Secretary of Transportation under 49:1655(b).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (c)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) added subpar. (C).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) inserted at end “Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a case was referred to trial by a special trial counsel, a special trial counsel shall determine if a rehearing is impracticable and shall dismiss the charges if the special trial counsel so determines.”

2016—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 5331(a)](/us/pl/114/328/s5331/a), inserted “, after appropriate notification to the other Judge Advocates General and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps,” after “the Judge Advocate General”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 5331(b)](/us/pl/114/328/s5331/b), designated first sentence as par. (1) and substituted “only with respect to—” and subpars. (A) and (B) for “only with respect to the issues raised by him.” and designated second to fourth sentences as pars. (2) to (4), respectively.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–337, § 924(c)(4)(B)](/us/pl/103/337/s924/c/4/B), substituted “Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces” for “Court of Military Appeals” in section catchline.

[Pub. L. 103–337, § 924(c)(2)](/us/pl/103/337/s924/c/2), substituted “Court of Criminal Appeals” for “Court of Military Review” wherever appearing in subsecs. (a) to (c) and (e).

[Pub. L. 103–337, § 924(c)(1)](/us/pl/103/337/s924/c/1), substituted “Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces” for “Court of Military Appeals” wherever appearing.

1989—[Pub. L. 101–189](/us/pl/101/189) redesignated subsecs. (b) to (f) as (a) to (e), respectively, struck out former subsec. (a) which related to establishment of the United States Court of Military Appeals, and appointment, removal, allowances and compensation, etc., of judges of such court, struck out subsec. (g) which related to a committee required to make annual comprehensive surveys of the operation of this chapter, struck out subsec. (h) which related to review of decisions of the Court of Military Appeals by the Supreme Court, and struck out subsec. (i) which related to annuities for judges and former or retired judges, and survivors and former spouses of judges and former judges.

1988—Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 100–456, § 722(c)](/us/pl/100/456/s722/c), inserted “or an annuity under subsection (i) or subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5” after “retired pay” in two places.

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 100–456, § 722(a)](/us/pl/100/456/s722/a), added subsec. (i).

1987—Subsec. (g)(1). [Pub. L. 100–26](/us/pl/100/26) substituted “the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps” for “the Director, Judge Advocate Division, Headquarters, United States Marine Corps”.

1983—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 98–209, § 13(d)](/us/pl/98/209/s13/d), inserted “Circuit” after “District of Columbia”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 98–209, § 7(d)](/us/pl/98/209/s7/d), struck out “affects a general or flag officer or” before “extends to death”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 98–209, § 9(a)](/us/pl/98/209/s9/a), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “A committee consisting of the judges of the Court of Military Appeals, the Judge Advocates General of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, the Chief Counsel of the Coast Guard, the Director, Judge Advocate Division, Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, and two members of the public appointed by the Secretary of Defense shall meet at least annually. The committee shall make an annual comprehensive survey of the operation of this chapter. After each such survey, the committee shall report” for “The Court of Military Appeals and the Judge Advocates General shall meet annually to make a comprehensive survey of the operation of this chapter and report”, and added pars. (2) and (3).

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 98–209, § 10(c)(2)](/us/pl/98/209/s10/c/2), added subsec. (h).

1982—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 97–295, § 1(12)(A)](/us/pl/97/295/s1/12/A), substituted “Court of Military Review” for “board of review” after “incorrect in law by the”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 97–295, § 1(12)(B)](/us/pl/97/295/s1/12/B), substituted “Secretary of Transportation” for “Secretary of the Treasury” after “military departments, and the”.

1981—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 97–81](/us/pl/97/81) substituted provisions authorizing the accused to petition the Court of Military Appeals for review of a decision of a Court of Military Review within 60 days from the earlier of (1) the date on which the accused is notified of the decision of the Court of Military Review, or (2) the date on which a copy of the decision of the Court of Military Review, after being served on appellate counsel of record for the accused (if any), is deposited in the United States mails for delivery by first-class certified mail to the accused at an address provided by the accused or, if no such address has been provided by the accused, at the latest address listed for the accused in his official service record, and directing the Court of Military Appeals to act upon such a petition promptly in accordance with the rules of the court for provision which had given the accused 30 days from the time when he was notified of the decision of a board of review to petition the Court of Military Appeals for review and which had directed the court to act upon such a petition within 30 days of the receipt thereof.

1980—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 96–579](/us/pl/96/579) struck out third sentence prescribing expiration of terms of office of all successors of judges of the Court of Military Appeals serving on June 15, 1968, fifteen years after expiration of term of their predecessors subject to requirement that any judge appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed should be appointed only for the unexpired term of the predecessor.

1968—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 90–340](/us/pl/90/340) changed the name of the Court of Military Appeals to the United States Court of Military Appeals, and established it under Article I of the United States Constitution, provided that the terms of office of all successors of the judges serving on June 15, 1968, shall expire 15 years after the expiration of the terms for which their predecessors were appointed but that any judge appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term of his predecessor shall be appointed only for the unexpired term of his predecessor, substituted provisions that each judge is entitled to the same salary and travel allowances as are judges of the United States Court of Appeals for provisions that entitled each judge to a salary of $33,000 a year and a travel and maintenance allowance, for expenses incurred while attending court or transacting official business outside the District of Columbia, not to exceed $15 a day, and provided for the precedence of the chief judge, and of the other judges based on their seniority.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 90–340](/us/pl/90/340) redesignated former par. (3) as (2) and changed the name of the Court of Military Appeals to the United States Court of Military Appeals. Provisions of former par. (2) pertaining to the terms of office of judges were placed in par. (1). Provisions of former par. (2) pertaining to the terms of office of the three judges first taking office after February 28, 1951, and expiring, as designated by the President at the time of nomination, one on May 1, 1956, one on May 1, 1961, and one on May 1, 1966, were struck out.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 90–340](/us/pl/90/340) redesignated former par. (4) as (3) and changed the name of the Court of Military Appeals to the United States Court of Military Appeals, and provided that a judge appointed to fill a temporary vacancy due to illness or disability may only be a judge of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Former par. (3) redesignated (2).

Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 90–340](/us/pl/90/340) added par. (4). Former par. (4) redesignated (3).

Subsecs. (b), (f). [Pub. L. 90–632](/us/pl/90/632) substituted “Court of Military Review” for “board of review” wherever appearing.

1964—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 88–426](/us/pl/88/426) increased salary of judges from $25,500 to $33,000.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) effective on the date that is two years after Dec. 27, 2021, and applicable with respect to offenses that occur after that date, with provisions for delayed effect and applicability if regulations are not prescribed by the President before the date that is two years after Dec. 27, 2021, see [section 539C of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s539C), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective on Jan. 1, 2021, and applicable with respect to any case in which every finding of guilty entered into the record under [section 860c of this title](/us/usc/t10/s860c) is for an offense that occurred on or after that date, see [section 542(e)(2) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s542/e/2), set out in a note under [section 866 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s866).

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

[Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title VII, § 722(d)](/us/pl/100/456/dA/tVII/s722/d), Sept. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 2003](/us/stat/102/2003), provided that: “Subsection (i) of [section 867 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s867), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to judges of the United States Court of Military Appeals [now United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces] whose term of service on such court ends on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Sept. 29, 1988] and to the survivors of such judges.”

#### Effective Date of 1983 Amendment

Amendment by sections 9(a) and 13(d) [Pub. L. 98–209](/us/pl/98/209) effective Dec. 6, 1983, and amendment by sections 7(d) and 10(c)(2) of [Pub. L. 98–209](/us/pl/98/209) effective first day of eighth calendar month beginning after Dec. 6, 1983, but amendment by [section 7(d) of Pub. L. 98–209](/us/pl/98/209/s7/d) not to apply to any case in which the findings and sentence were adjudged by a court-martial before that date, and the proceedings in any such case to be held in the same manner and with the same effect as if such amendments had not been enacted, see section 12(a)(1), (4) of [Pub. L. 98–209](/us/pl/98/209), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–81](/us/pl/97/81) to take effect at end of 60-day period beginning on Nov. 20, 1981, and to apply to any accused with respect to a Court of Military Review [now Court of Criminal Appeals] decision that is dated on or after that date, see section 7(a), (b)(5) of [Pub. L. 97–81](/us/pl/97/81), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 706 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s706).

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–632](/us/pl/90/632) effective first day of tenth month following October 1968, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 90–632](/us/pl/90/632/s4), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 1964 Amendment

For effective date of amendment by [Pub. L. 88–426](/us/pl/88/426), see [section 501 of Pub. L. 88–426](/us/pl/88/426/s501).

#### Commission To Study and Make Recommendations Concerning Sentencing Authority, Jurisdiction, Tenure, and Retirement of Military Judges; Establishment; Composition; Report to Congressional Committees

[Pub. L. 98–209, § 9(b)](/us/pl/98/209/s9/b), Dec. 6, 1983, [97 Stat. 1404](/us/stat/97/1404), as amended by [Pub. L. 98–525, title XV, § 1521](/us/pl/98/525/tXV/s1521), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2628](/us/stat/98/2628), directed Secretary of Defense to establish a commission to study the sentencing authority, jurisdiction, tenure, and retirement system of military judges, and to report, not later than Dec. 15, 1984, its findings and recommendations to committees of Congress and to the committee established under former [section 867(g) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s867/g).

#### Terms of Office of Judges of United States Court of Military Appeals

[Pub. L. 96–579, § 12(b)](/us/pl/96/579/s12/b), Dec. 23, 1980, [94 Stat. 3369](/us/stat/94/3369), provided that the term of office of a judge of United States Court of Military Appeals serving on such court on Dec. 23, 1980, expire (1) on the date the term of such judge would have expired under the law in effect on the day before Dec. 23, 1980, or (2) ten years after the date on which such judge took office as a judge of the United States Court of Military Appeals, whichever is later.

#### Continuation of Powers and Jurisdiction of Court of Military Appeals; Status of Judges

[Pub. L. 90–340, § 2](/us/pl/90/340/s2), June 15, 1968, [82 Stat. 178](/us/stat/82/178), provided that: “The United States Court of Military Appeals [now United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces] established under this Act [which amended subsec. (a) of this section] is a continuation of the Court of Military Appeals as it existed prior to the effective date of this Act [June 15, 1968], and no loss of rights or powers, interruption of jurisdiction, or prejudice to matters pending in the Court of Military Appeals before the effective date of this Act shall result. A judge of the Court of Military Appeals so serving on the day before the effective date of this Act shall, for all purposes, be a judge of the United States Court of Military Appeals under this Act.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Salary Increases

1987—Salaries of judges increased to $95,000 per annum, on recommendation of President, see note set out under [section 358 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s358), The Congress.

1977—Salaries of judges increased to $57,500 per annum, on recommendation of President, see note set out under [section 358 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s358).

1969—Salaries of judges increased from $33,000 to $42,500 per annum, commencing first day of pay period which begins after Feb. 14, 1969, on recommendation of President, see note set out under [section 358 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s358).

#### Executive Order No. 12063

Ex. Ord. No. 12063, June 5, 1978, 43 F.R. 24659, which related to the United States Court of Military Appeals Nominating Commission, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12258, Dec. 31, 1980, 46 F.R. 1251, formerly set out as a note under section 14 of the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
