---
title: "§ 4220. Entitlements to eligible individuals"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4220"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4220"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–383, title I, § 110](/us/pl/100/383/tI/s110), as added [Pub. L. 101–162, title II, § 209(a)](/us/pl/101/162/tII/s209/a), Nov. 21, 1989, [103 Stat. 1005](/us/stat/103/1005); amended [Pub. L. 102–371, § 7](/us/pl/102/371/s7), Sept. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/106/1168).)"
---
# § 4220. Entitlements to eligible individuals

##### § 4220. Entitlements to eligible individuals

(a) In general Subject to sections 4214(e) and 4215(g) of this title and except as provided in subsection (b), beginning on October 1, 1990, the payments to be made to any eligible individual under the provisions of this subchapter shall be an entitlement.

(b) Payments from discretionary appropriations

(1) Payments Any such payment made to an individual who is not of Japanese ancestry and who is an eligible individual on the basis of the amendment made by section 3 of the Civil Liberties Act Amendments of 1992 shall not be an entitlement and shall be made from discretionary appropriations.

(2) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1993 and each subsequent fiscal year such sums as may be necessary for the payments from discretionary appropriations described in paragraph (1).

(c) Definitions As used in this section—

(1) the term “discretionary appropriations” has the meaning given that term in [section 900(c)(7) of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s900/c/7); and

(2) the term “entitlement” means “spending authority” as defined in section 651(c)(2)(C) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 2.

*([Pub. L. 100–383, title I, § 110](/us/pl/100/383/tI/s110), as added [Pub. L. 101–162, title II, § 209(a)](/us/pl/101/162/tII/s209/a), Nov. 21, 1989, [103 Stat. 1005](/us/stat/103/1005); amended [Pub. L. 102–371, § 7](/us/pl/102/371/s7), Sept. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/106/1168).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 3 of the Civil Liberties Act Amendments of 1992, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is [section 3 of Pub. L. 102–371](/us/pl/102/371/s3), which amended paragraph (2) of [section 4218 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4218).

[Section 651(c)(2)(C) of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s651/c/2/C), referred to in subsec. (c)(2), was repealed by [Pub. L. 105–33, title X, § 10116(a)(3)](/us/pl/105/33/tX/s10116/a/3), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 691](/us/stat/111/691).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1989b–9 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–371](/us/pl/102/371) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, inserted “and except as provided in subsection (b)” after “4215(g) of this title”, struck out “As used in this section, the term ‘entitlement’ means ‘spending authority’ as defined in [section 651(c)(2)(C) of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s651/c/2/C).” after “shall be an entitlement.”, and added subsecs. (b) and (c).
