---
title: "§ 3001. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T43-S3001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section3001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3101](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3101), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2513](/us/stat/134/2513).)"
---
# § 3001. Definitions

##### § 3001. Definitions

(1) Covered land The term “covered land” means land that is—

(A) Federal lands administered by the Secretary concerned; and

(B) not excluded from the development of geothermal, solar, or wind energy under—

(i) a land use plan; or

(ii) other Federal law.

(2) Federal land The term “Federal land” means—

(A) public land as defined by section 103 of the Federal Land Policy Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C. 1702](/us/usc/t43/s1702)); or

(B) land of the National Forest System (as defined in [section 1609(a) of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1609/a)).

(3) Land use plan The term “land use plan” means—

(A) for public land, a land use plan established under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t43/s1701) et seq.); and

(B) for National Forest System land, a land management plan approved, amended, or revised under [section 1604 of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1604).

(4) Eligible project The term “eligible project” means a project carried out on covered land that uses wind, solar, or geothermal energy to generate energy.

(5) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3101](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3101), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2513](/us/stat/134/2513).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle B (§§ 3101–3106) of title III of div. Z of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2513](/us/stat/134/2513), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle B to the Code, see Tables.

The Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in par. (3)(A), is [Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2743](/us/stat/90/2743), which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1701) and Tables.
