---
title: "§ 22701. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S22701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section22701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tIII/s303/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4947](/us/stat/122/4947).)"
---
# § 22701. Definitions

##### § 22701. Definitions

(1) Private benefit.—

(A) In general.— The term “private benefit”—

(i) means a benefit accrued to a person or private entity, other than Amtrak, that directly improves the economic and competitive condition of that person or entity through improved assets, cost reductions, service improvements, or any other means as defined by the Secretary; and

(ii) shall be determined on a project-by-project basis, based upon an agreement between the parties.

(B) Consultation.— The Secretary may seek the advice of the States and rail carriers in further defining this term.

(2) Public benefit.—

(A) In general.— The term “public benefit”—

(i) means a benefit accrued to the public, including Amtrak, in the form of enhanced mobility of people or goods, environmental protection or enhancement, congestion mitigation, enhanced trade and economic development, improved air quality or land use, more efficient energy use, enhanced public safety or security, reduction of public expenditures due to improved transportation efficiency or infrastructure preservation, and any other positive community effects as defined by the Secretary; and

(ii) shall be determined on a project-by-project basis, based upon an agreement between the parties.

(B) Consultation.— The Secretary may seek the advice of the States and rail carriers in further defining this term.

(3) State.— The term “State” means any of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.

(4) State rail transportation authority.— The term “State rail transportation authority” means the State agency or official responsible under the direction of the Governor of the State or a State law for preparation, maintenance, coordination, and administration of the State rail plan.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tIII/s303/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4947](/us/stat/122/4947).)*
