---
title: "§ 3056m. Report on service to minority individuals"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3056m"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3056m"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–73, title V, § 515](/us/pl/89/73/tV/s515), as added [Pub. L. 109–365, title V, § 501](/us/pl/109/365/tV/s501), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2587](/us/stat/120/2587).)"
---
# § 3056m. Report on service to minority individuals

##### § 3056m. Report on service to minority individuals

(a) In general The Secretary shall annually prepare a report on the levels of participation and performance outcomes of minority individuals served by the program carried out under this subchapter.

(b) Contents

(1) Organization and data Such report shall present information on the levels of participation and the outcomes achieved by such minority individuals with respect to each grantee under this subchapter, by service area, and in the aggregate, beginning with data that applies to program year 2005.

(2) Efforts The report shall also include a description of each grantee’s efforts to serve minority individuals, based on information submitted to the Secretary by each grantee at such time and in such manner as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(3) Related matters The report shall also include—

(A) an assessment of individual grantees based on the criteria established under subsection (c);

(B) an analysis of whether any changes in grantees have affected participation rates of such minority individuals;

(C) information on factors affecting participation rates among such minority individuals; and

(D) recommendations for increasing participation of minority individuals in the program.

(c) Criteria The Secretary shall establish criteria for determining the effectiveness of grantees in serving minority individuals in accordance with the goals set forth in section 3056(a)(1) of title.

(d) Submission The Secretary shall annually submit such a report to the appropriate committees of Congress.

*([Pub. L. 89–73, title V, § 515](/us/pl/89/73/tV/s515), as added [Pub. L. 109–365, title V, § 501](/us/pl/109/365/tV/s501), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2587](/us/stat/120/2587).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3056m, [Pub. L. 89–73, title V, § 515](/us/pl/89/73/tV/s515), as added [Pub. L. 106–501, title V, § 501](/us/pl/106/501/tV/s501), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2286](/us/stat/114/2286), related to authorization of appropriations, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 109–365](/us/pl/109/365). See section 3056*o* of this title.
