---
title: "§ 7276f. Western Area Power Administration; deposit and availability of discretionary offsetting collections"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7276f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7276f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–85, title III](/us/pl/111/85/tIII), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2870](/us/stat/123/2870).)"
---
# § 7276f. Western Area Power Administration; deposit and availability of discretionary offsetting collections

##### § 7276f. Western Area Power Administration; deposit and availability of discretionary offsetting collections

Notwithstanding [section 3302 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3302), [section 825s of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s825s), and [section 392a of title 43](/us/usc/t43/s392a), funds collected by the Western Area Power Administration from the sale of power and related services that are applicable to the repayment of the annual expenses of this account in this and subsequent fiscal years shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting collections for the sole purpose of funding such expenses, with such funds remaining available until expended: *Provided further*, That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred (excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

*([Pub. L. 111–85, title III](/us/pl/111/85/tIII), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2870](/us/stat/123/2870).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

“This account” and “this appropriation”, referred to in text, mean funds appropriated under the heading “Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area Power Administration” of title III of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, [Pub. L. 111–85](/us/pl/111/85).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Purchase Power and Wheeling Expenses

[Pub. L. 113–76, div. D, title III](/us/pl/113/76/dD/tIII), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 171](/us/stat/128/171), provided: “That for purposes of this appropriation in this [Act] [div. D of [Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76), see Tables for classification] and subsequent Acts, purchase power and wheeling expenses includes the cost of voluntary purchases of power allowances in compliance with state greenhouse gas programs existing at the time of enactment of this Act [Jan. 17, 2014].”
