---
title: "§ 753. Implementation of policy"
identifier: "USC-T47-S753"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section753"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–624, title V, § 504](/us/pl/87/624/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 95–564](/us/pl/95/564), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2394](/us/stat/92/2394).)"
---
# § 753. Implementation of policy

##### § 753. Implementation of policy

(a) The Secretary of Commerce shall—

(1) coordinate the activities of Federal agencies with responsibilities in the field of telecommunications (other than the Commission), so as to ensure that there is full and effective compliance with the provisions of this subchapter;

(2) omitted;

(3) exercise his authority in a manner which seeks to obtain coordinated and efficient use of the electromagnetic spectrum and orbital space, and to ensure the technical compatibility of the space segment with existing communications facilities in the United States and in foreign countries; and

(4) omitted.

(b) to (d) Omitted.

*([Pub. L. 87–624, title V, § 504](/us/pl/87/624/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 95–564](/us/pl/95/564), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2394](/us/stat/92/2394).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Subsecs. (a)(2), (4) and (c) of this section ceased to be effective Mar. 17, 2000, pursuant to [section 765d(1) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s765d/1). Subsec. (a)(2), (4) directed the Secretary of Commerce to ensure availability and utilization of the maritime satellite telecommunications services provided by INMARSAT for general governmental purposes and to determine the needs of users of the maritime satellite telecommunications system and to communicate that information to INMARSAT. Subsec. (c) assigned functions to the Commission.

Subsecs. (b) and (d) of this section ceased to be effective June 14, 2005, pursuant to [section 765d(3) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s765d/3). Subsec. (b) directed the President to supervise and issue instructions to the communications satellite corporation regarding activities with foreign governments, international entities, and INMARSAT. Subsec. (d) authorized the Federal Communications Commission to issue instructions to the corporation with respect to regulatory matters within the Commission’s jurisdiction.
