---
title: "§ 1970. Assistance by Executive departments and agencies"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1970"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1970"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–117, div. B, § 911](/us/pl/107/117/dB/s911), Jan. 10, 2002, [115 Stat. 2322](/us/stat/115/2322); [Pub. L. 117–77, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/77/s2/a), Dec. 22, 2021, [135 Stat. 1522](/us/stat/135/1522).)"
---
# § 1970. Assistance by Executive departments and agencies

##### § 1970. Assistance by Executive departments and agencies

(a) Assistance

(1) In general Executive departments and Executive agencies may assist the United States Capitol Police in the performance of its duties by providing services (including personnel), equipment, and facilities on a temporary and reimbursable basis when requested by the Capitol Police Board or in accordance with paragraph (4) and on a permanent and reimbursable basis upon advance written request of the Capitol Police Board; except that the Department of Defense and the Coast Guard may provide such assistance on a temporary basis without reimbursement when assisting the United States Capitol Police in its duties directly related to protection under sections 1922, 1961, 1966, 1967, and 1969 of this title and sections 5101 to 5107 and 5109 of title 40.11 See References in Text note below. Before making a request under this paragraph, the Capitol Police Board shall consult with appropriate Members of the Senate and House of Representatives in leadership positions, except in an emergency.

(2) Procurement No services (including personnel), equipment, or facilities may be ordered, purchased, leased, or otherwise procured for the purposes of carrying out the duties of the United States Capitol Police by persons other than officers or employees of the Federal Government duly authorized by the Chairman of the Capitol Police Board to make such orders, purchases, leases, or procurements.

(3) Expenditures or obligation of funds No funds may be expended or obligated for the purpose of carrying out this section other than funds specifically appropriated to the Capitol Police Board or the United States Capitol Police for those purposes with the exception of—

(A) expenditures made by the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard from funds appropriated to the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard in providing assistance on a temporary basis to the United States Capitol Police in the performance of its duties directly related to protection under sections 1922, 1961, 1966, 1967, and 1969 of this title and sections 5101 to 5107 and 5109 of title 40; ^1 and

(B) expenditures made by Executive departments and agencies, in providing assistance at the request of the United States Capitol Police in the performance of its duties, and which will be reimbursed by the United States Capitol Police under this section.

(4) Provision of assistance Assistance under this section shall be provided—

(A) consistent with the authority of the Capitol Police under sections 1961 and 1966 of this title;

(B) upon the written request of—

(i) the Capitol Police Board; or

(ii) in an emergency—

(I) the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate in any matter relating to the Senate;

(II) the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives in any matter relating to the House of Representatives; or

(III) the Chief of the Capitol Police, if the Chief of the Capitol Police has determined that the provision of assistance is necessary to prevent the significant disruption of governmental function and public order within the United States Capitol Buildings and Grounds, as described in section 1961 ^1 of this title; and

(C)

(i) on a temporary and reimbursable basis;

(ii) on a permanent reimbursable basis upon advance written request of the Capitol Police Board; or

(iii) on a temporary basis without reimbursement by the Department of Defense and the Coast Guard as described under paragraph (1).

(5) Revocation The Capitol Police Board may revoke a request for assistance provided under paragraph (4)(B)(ii)(III) upon consultation with appropriate Members of the Senate and House of Representatives in leadership positions.

(b) Reports

(1) Submission With respect to any fiscal year in which an executive department or executive agency provides assistance under this section, the head of that department or agency shall submit a report not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year to the Chairman of the Capitol Police Board.

(2) Content The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall contain a detailed account of all expenditures made by the Executive department or executive agency in providing assistance under this section during the applicable fiscal year.

(3) Summary After receipt of all reports under paragraph (2) with respect to any fiscal year, the Chairman of the Capitol Police Board shall submit a summary of such reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

(c) Effective date This section shall take effect on January 10, 2002, and apply to each fiscal year occurring after such date.

*([Pub. L. 107–117, div. B, § 911](/us/pl/107/117/dB/s911), Jan. 10, 2002, [115 Stat. 2322](/us/stat/115/2322); [Pub. L. 117–77, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/77/s2/a), Dec. 22, 2021, [135 Stat. 1522](/us/stat/135/1522).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 1922, 1961, 1966, 1967, and 1969 of this title and sections 5101 to 5107 and 5109 of title 40, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), (3)(A), (4)(B)(ii)(III), was in the original a reference to the Act of July 31, 1946 ([40 U.S.C. 212a–2](/us/usc/t40/s212a–2)), which is [act July 31, 1946, ch. 707](/us/act/1946-07-31/ch707), [60 Stat. 718](/us/stat/60/718). Sections 9, 9A, 9B, 9C, and 14 of the Act are classified, respectively, to sections 1961, 1966, 1967, 1922, and 1969 of this title, and section 16(b) of the Act is set out as a note under [section 1961 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1961). Sections 1 to 8, 10 to 13, and 16(a) of the Act, which were classified to sections 193a to 193m of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, were repealed and reenacted as sections 5101 to 5107 and 5109 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1312, the first section of which enacted Title 40. [Section 5(c) of Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217/s5/c), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s101), provides that a reference to a law replaced by [section 1 of Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217/s1) is deemed to refer to the corresponding provision enacted by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217). For complete classification of the act of July 31, 1946, to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of sections of former Title 40, see table at the beginning of Title 40.

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 212c of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 117–77, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/77/s2/a/1), inserted “or in accordance with paragraph (4)” before “and on a permanent”.

Subsec. (a)(4)(B). [Pub. L. 117–77, § 2(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/117/77/s2/a/2/A), struck out “advance” before “written request” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(ii)(III). [Pub. L. 117–77, § 2(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/77/s2/a/2/B), added subcl. (III).

Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 117–77, § 2(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/77/s2/a/3), added par. (5).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–77, § 4](/us/pl/117/77/s4), Dec. 22, 2021, [135 Stat. 1524](/us/stat/135/1524), provided that: “The amendments made by this Act [amending this section and [section 1974 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1974)] shall take effect on October 1, 2021.”
