---
title: "§ 3612. Survey of tribal judicial systems"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3612"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3612"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–176, title I, § 102](/us/pl/103/176/tI/s102), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2006](/us/stat/107/2006).)"
---
# § 3612. Survey of tribal judicial systems

##### § 3612. Survey of tribal judicial systems

(a) In general Not later than six months after December 3, 1993, the Secretary, in consultation with Indian tribes, shall enter into a contract with a non-Federal entity to conduct a survey of conditions of tribal justice systems and Courts of Indian Offenses to determine the resources and funding, including base support funding, needed to provide for expeditious and effective administration of justice. The Secretary, in like manner, shall annually update the information and findings contained in the survey required under this section.

(b) Local conditions In the course of any annual survey, the non-Federal entity shall document local conditions of each Indian tribe, including, but not limited to—

(1) the geographic area and population to be served;

(2) the levels of functioning and capacity of the tribal justice system;

(3) the volume and complexity of the caseloads;

(4) the facilities, including detention facilities, and program resources available;

(5) funding levels and personnel staffing requirements for the tribal justice system; and

(6) the training and technical assistance needs of the tribal justice system.

(c) Consultation with Indian tribes The non-Federal entity shall actively consult with Indian tribes and tribal organizations in the development and conduct of the surveys, including updates thereof, under this section. Indian tribes and tribal organizations shall have the opportunity to review and make recommendations regarding the findings of the survey, including updates thereof, prior to final publication of the survey or any update thereof. After Indian tribes and tribal organizations have reviewed and commented on the results of the survey, or any update thereof, the non-Federal entity shall report its findings, together with the comments and recommendations of the Indian tribes and tribal organizations, to the Secretary, the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Native American Affairs of the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 103–176, title I, § 102](/us/pl/103/176/tI/s102), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2006](/us/stat/107/2006).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Change of Name

Subcommittee on Native American Affairs changed to Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the United States.
