---
title: "§ 3122. Application for an order for a pen register or a trap and trace device"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–508, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/99/508/tIII/s301/a), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1869](/us/stat/100/1869).)"
---
# § 3122. Application for an order for a pen register or a trap and trace device

##### § 3122. Application for an order for a pen register or a trap and trace device

(a) Application.—

(1) An attorney for the Government may make application for an order or an extension of an order under [section 3123 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3123) authorizing or approving the installation and use of a pen register or a trap and trace device under this chapter, in writing under oath or equivalent affirmation, to a court of competent jurisdiction.

(2) Unless prohibited by State law, a State investigative or law enforcement officer may make application for an order or an extension of an order under [section 3123 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3123) authorizing or approving the installation and use of a pen register or a trap and trace device under this chapter, in writing under oath or equivalent affirmation, to a court of competent jurisdiction of such State.

(b) Contents of Application.— An application under subsection (a) of this section shall include—

(1) the identity of the attorney for the Government or the State law enforcement or investigative officer making the application and the identity of the law enforcement agency conducting the investigation; and

(2) a certification by the applicant that the information likely to be obtained is relevant to an ongoing criminal investigation being conducted by that agency.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–508, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/99/508/tIII/s301/a), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1869](/us/stat/100/1869).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days after Oct. 21, 1986, and, in case of conduct pursuant to court order or extension, applicable only with respect to court orders and extensions made after such date, with special rule for State authorizations of interceptions, see [section 302 of Pub. L. 99–508](/us/pl/99/508/s302), set out as a note under [section 3121 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3121).
