---
title: "§ 8702. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T7-S8702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section8702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–234, title I, § 1001](/us/pl/110/234/tI/s1001), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 936](/us/stat/122/936); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title I, § 1001, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664).)"
---
# § 8702. Definitions

##### § 8702. Definitions

(1) Average crop revenue election payment The term “average crop revenue election payment” means a payment made to producers on a farm under section 8715 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(2) Base acres

(A) In general The term “base acres”, with respect to a covered commodity on a farm, means the number of acres established under [section 7911 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7911) as in effect on September 30, 2007, subject to any adjustment under [section 8711 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8711).

(B) Peanuts The term “base acres for peanuts” has the meaning given the term in [section 8751 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8751).

(3) Counter-cyclical payment The term “counter-cyclical payment” means a payment made to producers on a farm under section 8714 ^1 of this title.

(4) Covered commodity The term “covered commodity” means wheat, corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, upland cotton, long grain rice, medium grain rice, pulse crops, soybeans, and other oilseeds.

(5) Direct payment The term “direct payment” means a payment made to producers on a farm under section 8713 ^1 of this title.

(6) Effective price The term “effective price”, with respect to a covered commodity for a crop year, means the price calculated by the Secretary under section 8714 ^1 of this title to determine whether counter-cyclical payments are required to be made for that crop year.

(7) Extra long staple cotton The term “extra long staple cotton” means cotton that—

(A) is produced from pure strain varieties of the Barbadense species or any hybrid of the species, or other similar types of extra long staple cotton, designated by the Secretary, having characteristics needed for various end uses for which United States upland cotton is not suitable and grown in irrigated cotton-growing regions of the United States designated by the Secretary or other areas designated by the Secretary as suitable for the production of the varieties or types; and

(B) is ginned on a roller-type gin or, if authorized by the Secretary, ginned on another type gin for experimental purposes.

(8) Loan commodity The term “loan commodity” means wheat, corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, upland cotton, extra long staple cotton, long grain rice, medium grain rice, soybeans, other oilseeds, graded wool, nongraded wool, mohair, honey, dry peas, lentils, small chickpeas, and large chickpeas.

(9) Medium grain rice The term “medium grain rice” includes short grain rice.

(10) Other oilseed The term “other oilseed” means a crop of sunflower seed, rapeseed, canola, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, crambe, sesame seed, or any oilseed designated by the Secretary.

(11) Payment acres The term “payment acres” means, in the case of direct payments and counter-cyclical payments—

(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), 85 percent of the base acres of a covered commodity on a farm on which direct payments or counter-cyclical payments are made; and

(B) in the case of direct payments for each of the 2009 through 2011 crop years, 83.3 percent of the base acres for the covered commodity on a farm on which direct payments are made.

(12) Payment yield The term “payment yield” means the yield established for direct payments and the yield established for counter-cyclical payments under [section 7912 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7912) as in effect on September 30, 2007, or under [section 8712 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8712), for a farm for a covered commodity.

(13) Producer

(A) In general The term “producer” means an owner, operator, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper that shares in the risk of producing a crop and is entitled to share in the crop available for marketing from the farm, or would have shared had the crop been produced.

(B) Hybrid seed In determining whether a grower of hybrid seed is a producer, the Secretary shall—

(i) not take into consideration the existence of a hybrid seed contract; and

(ii) ensure that program requirements do not adversely affect the ability of the grower to receive a payment under this chapter.

(14) Pulse crop The term “pulse crop” means dry peas, lentils, small chickpeas, and large chickpeas.

(15) State The term “State” means—

(A) a State;

(B) the District of Columbia;

(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and

(D) any other territory or possession of the United States.

(16) Target price The term “target price” means the price per bushel, pound, or hundredweight (or other appropriate unit) of a covered commodity used to determine the payment rate for counter-cyclical payments.

(17) United States The term “United States”, when used in a geographical sense, means all of the States.

(18) United States Premium Factor The term “United States Premium Factor” means the percentage by which the difference in the United States loan schedule premiums for Strict Middling (SM) 1⅛-inch upland cotton and for Middling (M) 1^3⁄32-inch upland cotton exceeds the difference in the applicable premiums for comparable international qualities.

*([Pub. L. 110–234, title I, § 1001](/us/pl/110/234/tI/s1001), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 936](/us/stat/122/936); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title I, § 1001, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

[Section 8715 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8715), referred to in par. (1), was repealed by [Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1103(a)](/us/pl/113/79/tI/s1103/a), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 658](/us/stat/128/658).

[Section 8714 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8714), referred to in pars. (3) and (6), was repealed by [Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1102(a)](/us/pl/113/79/tI/s1102/a), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 658](/us/stat/128/658).

[Section 8713 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8713), referred to in par. (5), was repealed by [Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1101](/us/pl/113/79/tI/s1101), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 658](/us/stat/128/658).

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234), see [section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4), set out as a note under [section 8701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8701).
