---
title: "§ 2153e–1. Effectiveness of rule, regulation, or procedure with regard to exports subject to Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2153e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2153e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–630, title XIX, § 1913](/us/pl/95/630/tXIX/s1913), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3727](/us/stat/92/3727).)"
---
# § 2153e–1. Effectiveness of rule, regulation, or procedure with regard to exports subject to Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978

##### § 2153e–1. Effectiveness of rule, regulation, or procedure with regard to exports subject to Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978

No environmental rule, regulation, or procedure shall become effective with regard to exports subject to the provisions of [22 U.S.C. 3201](/us/usc/t22/s3201) et seq., the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, until such time as the President has reported to Congress on the progress achieved pursuant to section 407 of the Act ([42 U.S.C. 2153e](/us/usc/t42/s2153e)) entitled “Protection of the Environment” which requires the President to seek to provide, in agreements required under the Act, for cooperation between the parties in protecting the environment from radioactive, chemical or thermal contaminations arising from peaceful nuclear activities.

*([Pub. L. 95–630, title XIX, § 1913](/us/pl/95/630/tXIX/s1913), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3727](/us/stat/92/3727).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 120](/us/stat/92/120), which is classified principally to chapter 47 (§ 3201 et seq.) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Export-Import Bank Act Amendments of 1978, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Nov. 10, 1978, see [section 1917 of Pub. L. 95–630](/us/pl/95/630/s1917), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 635 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s635), Banks and Banking.
