---
title: "§ 12514. Pilot program on restorative practices"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12514"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12514"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41801](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41801), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title I, § 109(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tI/s109/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 852](/us/stat/136/852).)"
---
# § 12514. Pilot program on restorative practices

##### § 12514. Pilot program on restorative practices

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Director The term “Director” means the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women.

(2) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means—

(A) a State;

(B) a unit of local government;

(C) a tribal government;

(D) a tribal organization;

(E) a victim service provider;

(F) an institution of higher education (as defined in [section 1001(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a); and

(G) a private or public nonprofit organization, including—

(i) a tribal nonprofit organization; and

(ii) a faith-based nonprofit organization.

(3) Restorative practice The term “restorative practice” means a practice relating to a specific harm that—

(A) is community-based and unaffiliated with any civil or criminal legal process;

(B) is initiated by a victim of the harm;

(C) involves, on a voluntary basis and without any evidence of coercion or intimidation of any victim of the harm by any individual who committed the harm or anyone associated with any such individual—

(i) 1 or more individuals who committed the harm;

(ii) 1 or more victims of the harm; and

(iii) the community affected by the harm through 1 or more representatives of the community;

(D) shall include and has the goal of—

(i) collectively seeking accountability from 1 or more individuals who committed the harm;

(ii) developing a written process whereby 1 or more individuals who committed the harm will take responsibility for the actions that caused harm to 1 or more victims of the harm; and

(iii) developing a written course of action plan—

(I) that is responsive to the needs of 1 or more victims of the harm; and

(II) upon which 1 or more victims, 1 or more individuals who committed the harm, and the community can agree; and

(E) is conducted in a victim services framework that protects the safety and supports the autonomy of 1 or more victims of the harm and the community.

(b) Grants authorized The Director shall award grants to eligible entities to develop and implement a program, or to assess best practices, for—

(1) restorative practices to prevent or address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking;

(2) training by eligible entities, or for eligible entities, courts, or prosecutors, on restorative practices and program implementation; and

(3) evaluations of a restorative practice described in paragraph (1).

(c) Priority In awarding grants under subsection (b), the Director shall give priority to eligible entities that submit proposals that meaningfully address the needs of culturally specific or underserved populations.

(d) Qualifications To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall demonstrate a history of comprehensive training and experience in working with victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

(e) Program requirements

(1) In general An eligible entity or a subgrantee of an eligible entity that offers a restorative practices program with funds awarded under this section shall ensure that such program—

(A) includes set practices and procedures for screening the suitability of any individual who committed a harm based on—

(i) the history of civil and criminal complaints against the individual involving domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking;

(ii) parole or probation violations of the individual or whether active parole or probation supervision of the individual is being conducted for prior offenses involving domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking;

(iii) the risk to the safety of any victim of the harm based on an evidence-based risk assessment;

(iv) the risk to public safety, including an evidence-based risk assessment of the danger to the public; and

(v) past participation of any individual who committed the harm in restorative practice programing; and

(B) denies eligibility to participate in the program for any individual who committed a harm against whom there is—

(i) a pending felony or misdemeanor prosecution for an offense against any victim of the harm or a dependent of any such victim;

(ii) a restraining order or a protection order (as defined in [section 2266 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2266)) that protects any victim of the harm or a dependent of any such victim, unless there is an exception in the restraining order or protective order allowing for participation in a restorative practices program;

(iii) a pending criminal charge involving or relating to sexual assault, including rape, human trafficking, or child abuse, including child sexual abuse; or

(iv) a conviction for child sexual abuse against the victim or a sibling of the victim if the victim or sibling of the victim is currently a minor.

(2) Referral With respect to a risk assessment described in paragraph (1)(A)(iii) for which an eligible entity or a subgrantee of an eligible entity determines that a victim or a dependent of a victim are at significant risk of subsequent serious injury, sexual assault, or death, the eligible entity or subgrantee shall refer the victim or dependent to other victim services, instead of restorative practices.

(f) Nondisclosure of confidential or private information For the purpose of [section 12291(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12291/b/2), an individual described in subsection (a)(3)(C) shall be considered a person receiving services.

(g) Relation to criminal justice intervention Restorative practices performed with funds awarded under this section are not intended to function as a replacement for criminal justice intervention for a specific harm.

(h) Reports

(1) Report to Director As a part of the report required to be submitted under [section 12291(b)(6) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12291/b/6), an eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall annually submit to the Director information relating to the effectiveness of the restorative practices carried out with amounts from the grant, including—

(A) the number of individuals for whom the eligible entity supported a restorative practice;

(B) if applicable, the number of individuals who—

(i) sought restorative practices from the eligible entity; and

(ii) the eligible entity could not serve;

(C) if applicable, the number of individuals—

(i) who sought restorative practice training;

(ii) who received restorative practice training;

(iii) who provided restorative practice training; and

(iv) to whom the eligible entity could not provide restorative practice training;

(D) a victim evaluation component that is documented through survey or interview, including the satisfaction of victims of a harm with the restorative practice services;

(E) if applicable, the number of individuals who committed a harm and—

(i) successfully completed and executed a written course of action plan;

(ii) failed to successfully complete and execute a written course of action plan; and

(iii) were involved in a criminal or civil complaint involving domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking against the victims 11 So in original. or victims during the course of the restorative practice process; and

(F) any other qualitative or quantitative information determined by the Director.

(2) Report to Congress Not later than 2 years after March 15, 2022, and biennially thereafter, the Director shall submit to Congress a report that summarizes the reports received by the Director under paragraph (1).

(i) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027 to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41801](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41801), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title I, § 109(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tI/s109/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 852](/us/stat/136/852).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.
