---
title: "§ 673. Statistics"
identifier: "USC-T29-S673"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section673"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–596, § 24](/us/pl/91/596/s24), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1614](/us/stat/84/1614); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)"
---
# § 673. Statistics

##### § 673. Statistics

(a) Development and maintenance of program of collection, compilation, and analysis; employments subject to coverage; scope In order to further the purposes of this chapter, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall develop and maintain an effective program of collection, compilation, and analysis of occupational safety and health statistics. Such program may cover all employments whether or not subject to any other provisions of this chapter but shall not cover employments excluded by [section 653 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s653). The Secretary shall compile accurate statistics on work injuries and illnesses which shall include all disabling, serious, or significant injuries and illnesses, whether or not involving loss of time from work, other than minor injuries requiring only first aid treatment and which do not involve medical treatment, loss of consciousness, restriction of work or motion, or transfer to another job.

(b) Authority of Secretary to promote, encourage, or engage in programs, make grants, and grant or contract for research and investigations To carry out his duties under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary may—

(1) promote, encourage, or directly engage in programs of studies, information and communication concerning occupational safety and health statistics;

(2) make grants to States or political subdivisions thereof in order to assist them in developing and administering programs dealing with occupational safety and health statistics; and

(3) arrange, through grants or contracts, for the conduct of such research and investigations as give promise of furthering the objectives of this section.

(c) Federal share for grants The Federal share for each grant under subsection (b) of this section may be up to 50 per centum of the State’s total cost.

(d) Utilization by Secretary of State or local services, facilities, and employees; consent; reimbursement The Secretary may, with the consent of any State or political subdivision thereof, accept and use the services, facilities, and employees of the agencies of such State or political subdivision, with or without reimbursement, in order to assist him in carrying out his functions under this section.

(e) Reports by employers On the basis of the records made and kept pursuant to [section 657(c) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s657/c), employers shall file such reports with the Secretary as he shall prescribe by regulation, as necessary to carry out his functions under this chapter.

(f) Supersedure of agreements between Department of Labor and States for collection of statistics Agreements between the Department of Labor and States pertaining to the collection of occupational safety and health statistics already in effect on the effective date of this chapter shall remain in effect until superseded by grants or contracts made under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 91–596, § 24](/us/pl/91/596/s24), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1614](/us/stat/84/1614); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (f), means the effective date of [Pub. L. 91–596](/us/pl/91/596), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1590](/us/stat/84/1590), which is 120 days after Dec. 29, 1970, see [section 34 of Pub. L. 91–596](/us/pl/91/596/s34), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 651 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s651).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsec. (a) pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b) which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.
