---
title: "§ 715k–1. Expenditures for personal services"
identifier: "USC-T16-S715k–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section715k–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 15, 1935, ch. 261](/us/act/1935-06-15/ch261), title VII, § 701, [49 Stat. 384](/us/stat/49/384); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)"
---
# § 715k–1. Expenditures for personal services

##### § 715k–1. Expenditures for personal services

In the execution of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make such expenditures for personal services in the District of Columbia and elsewhere as he shall deem necessary.

*([June 15, 1935, ch. 261](/us/act/1935-06-15/ch261), title VII, § 701, [49 Stat. 384](/us/stat/49/384); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, probably means the [act of June 15, 1935, ch. 261](/us/act/1935-06-15/ch261), [49 Stat. 378](/us/stat/49/378), which is classified in part to certain sections of this subchapter and of subchapter IV of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Act June 15, 1935, in addition to the provisions set out in the text, made an appropriation for the acquisition of lands necessary to provide for the restoration, rehabilitation and protection of migratory waterfowl and other wildlife and for the erection and construction of necessary buildings, dikes, dams, canals, and other works.

Section was not enacted as part of the Migratory Bird Conservation Act which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Transfer of functions of Secretary of Agriculture to Secretary of the Interior by Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 715a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s715a).
