---
title: "§ 6627. Compensation for lost or damaged property"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6627"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6627"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 8](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s8), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3170](/us/stat/118/3170).)"
---
# § 6627. Compensation for lost or damaged property

##### § 6627. Compensation for lost or damaged property

(a) In general Any amounts received by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate (in this section referred to as the “Sergeant at Arms”) for compensation for damage to, loss of, or loss of use of property of the Sergeant at Arms that was procured using amounts available to the Sergeant at Arms in the account for Contingent Expenses, Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, shall be credited to that account or, if applicable, to any subaccount of that account.

(b) Availability Amounts credited to any account or subaccount under subsection (a) shall be merged with amounts in that account or subaccount and shall be available to the same extent, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as amounts in that account or subaccount.

(c) Effective date This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2005 and each fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 8](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s8), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3170](/us/stat/118/3170).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 117d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s117d–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005, which is div. G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005.
