---
title: "§ 8007. United States-India scientific cooperative nuclear nonproliferation program"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8007"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8007"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–401, title I, § 109](/us/pl/109/401/tI/s109), Dec. 18, 2006, [120 Stat. 2739](/us/stat/120/2739).)"
---
# § 8007. United States-India scientific cooperative nuclear nonproliferation program

##### § 8007. United States-India scientific cooperative nuclear nonproliferation program

(a) Establishment The Secretary of Energy, acting through the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, is authorized to establish a cooperative nuclear nonproliferation program to pursue jointly with scientists from the United States and India a program to further common nuclear nonproliferation goals, including scientific research and development efforts, with an emphasis on nuclear safeguards (in this section referred to as “the program”).

(b) Consultation The program shall be carried out in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense.

(c) National Academies recommendations

(1) In general The Secretary of Energy shall enter into an agreement with the National Academies to develop recommendations for the implementation of the program.

(2) Recommendations The agreement entered into under paragraph (1) shall provide for the preparation by qualified individuals with relevant expertise and knowledge and the communication to the Secretary of Energy each fiscal year of—

(A) recommendations for research and related programs designed to overcome existing technological barriers to nuclear nonproliferation; and

(B) an assessment of whether activities and programs funded under this section are achieving the goals of the activities and programs.

(3) Public availability The recommendations and assessments prepared under this subsection shall be made publicly available.

(d) Consistency with Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty All United States activities related to the program shall be consistent with United States obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011.

*([Pub. L. 109–401, title I, § 109](/us/pl/109/401/tI/s109), Dec. 18, 2006, [120 Stat. 2739](/us/stat/120/2739).)*
