---
title: "§ 300dd–32. Requirement of provision of certain counseling services"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300dd–32"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300dd–32"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXIV, § 2432, as added [Pub. L. 100–607, title II, § 211](/us/pl/100/607/tII/s211), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3090](/us/stat/102/3090); amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title II, § 2618(i)](/us/pl/100/690/tII/s2618/i), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4242](/us/stat/102/4242); [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 118(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s118/b/1/B), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 348](/us/stat/106/348).)"
---
# § 300dd–32. Requirement of provision of certain counseling services

##### § 300dd–32. Requirement of provision of certain counseling services

(a) Counseling before testing The Secretary may not make a grant under [section 300dd–31 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300dd–31) to a State unless the State agrees that, before testing an individual pursuant to such section, the State will provide to the individual appropriate counseling with respect to acquired immune deficiency syndrome (based on the most recent scientific data relating to such syndrome), including—

(1) measures for the prevention of exposure to, and the transmission of, the etiologic agent for such syndrome;

(2) the accuracy and reliability of the results of such testing;

(3) the significance of the results of such testing, including the potential for developing acquired immune deficiency syndrome; and

(4) encouraging individuals, as appropriate, to undergo testing for such etiologic agent and providing information on the benefits of such testing.

(b) Counseling of individuals with negative test results The Secretary may not make a grant under [section 300dd–31 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300dd–31) to a State unless the State agrees that, if the results of testing conducted pursuant to such section indicate that an individual is not infected with the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, the State will review for the individual the information provided pursuant to subsection (a) with respect to such syndrome, including—

(1) the information described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of such subsection; and

(2) the appropriateness of further counseling, testing, and education of the individual with respect to acquired immune deficiency syndrome.

(c) Counseling of individuals with positive test results The Secretary may not make a grant under [section 300dd–31 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300dd–31) to a State unless the State agrees that, if the results of testing conducted pursuant to such section indicate that an individual is infected with the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, the State will provide to the individual appropriate counseling with respect to such syndrome, including—

(1) reviewing the information described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a);

(2) reviewing the appropriateness of further counseling, testing, and education of the individual with respect to acquired immune deficiency syndrome;

(3) the importance of not exposing others to the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome;

(4) the availability in the geographic area of any appropriate services with respect to health care, including mental health care and social and support services;

(5) the benefits of locating and counseling any individual by whom the infected individual may have been exposed to the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome and any individual whom the infected individual may have exposed to such etiologic agent; and

(6) the availability, if any, of the services of public health authorities with respect to locating and counseling any individual described in paragraph (5).

(d) Rule of construction with respect to counseling without testing Agreements entered into pursuant to subsections (a) through (c) may not be construed to prohibit any grantee under [section 300dd–31 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300dd–31) from expending the grant for the purpose of providing counseling services described in such subsections to an individual who will not undergo testing described in such section as a result of the grantee or the individual determining that such testing of the individual is not appropriate.

(e) Use of funds

(1) The purpose of this subpart 11 So in original. Probably should be “part”. is to provide for counseling and testing services to prevent and reduce exposure to, and transmission of, the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome.

(2) All individuals receiving counseling pursuant to this subpart ^1 are to be counseled about the harmful effects of promiscuous sexual activity and intravenous substance abuse, and the benefits of abstaining from such activities.

(3) None of the fund appropriated to carry out this subpart ^1 may be used to provide counseling that is designed to promote or encourage, directly, homosexual or heterosexual sexual activity or intravenous drug abuse.

(4) Paragraph (3) may not be construed to prohibit a counselor who has already performed the counseling of an individual required by paragraph (2), to provide accurate information about means to reduce an individual’s risk of exposure to, or the transmission of, the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, provided that any informational materials used are not obscene.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXIV, § 2432, as added [Pub. L. 100–607, title II, § 211](/us/pl/100/607/tII/s211), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3090](/us/stat/102/3090); amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title II, § 2618(i)](/us/pl/100/690/tII/s2618/i), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4242](/us/stat/102/4242); [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 118(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s118/b/1/B), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 348](/us/stat/106/348).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321), which directed the substitution of “part” for “subpart” wherever appearing in subsec. (a), could not be executed because the word “subpart” does not appear in subsec. (a).

1988—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 2618(i)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/s2618/i/1), substituted “indicate that an individual” for “indicate that the individual” in introductory provisions and “paragraph (5)” for “paragraph (4)” in par. (6).

Subsec. (e)(1) to (3). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 2618(i)(2)](/us/pl/100/690/s2618/i/2), substituted “subpart” for “part”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321) effective Oct. 1, 1992, with provision for programs providing financial assistance, see section 801(c), (d) of [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321), set out as a note under [section 236 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s236).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) effective immediately after enactment of [Pub. L. 100–607](/us/pl/100/607), which was approved Nov. 4, 1988, see [section 2600 of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s2600), set out as a note under [section 242m of this title](/us/usc/t42/s242m).
