---
title: "§ 6911a. Assistant Administrator of Environmental Protection Agency; appointment, etc"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6911a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6911a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–510, title III, § 307(b)](/us/pl/96/510/tIII/s307/b), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2810](/us/stat/94/2810); [Pub. L. 98–80, § 2(c)(2)(B)](/us/pl/98/80/s2/c/2/B), Aug. 23, 1983, [97 Stat. 485](/us/stat/97/485).)"
---
# § 6911a. Assistant Administrator of Environmental Protection Agency; appointment, etc

##### § 6911a. Assistant Administrator of Environmental Protection Agency; appointment, etc.

The Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency appointed to head the Office of Solid Waste shall be in addition to the five Assistant Administrators of the Environmental Protection Agency provided for in section 1(d) of Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of 1970 and the additional Assistant Administrator provided by the Toxic Substances Control Act [[15 U.S.C. 2601](/us/usc/t15/s2601) et seq.], shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 96–510, title III, § 307(b)](/us/pl/96/510/tIII/s307/b), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2810](/us/stat/94/2810); [Pub. L. 98–80, § 2(c)(2)(B)](/us/pl/98/80/s2/c/2/B), Aug. 23, 1983, [97 Stat. 485](/us/stat/97/485).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of 1970, referred to in text, is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

The Toxic Substances Control Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 94–469](/us/pl/94/469), Oct. 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 2003](/us/stat/90/2003), which is classified generally to chapter 53 (§ 2601 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s2601) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, and not as part of the Solid Waste Disposal Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1983—[Pub. L. 98–80](/us/pl/98/80) struck out “, and shall be compensated at the rate provided for Level IV of the Executive Schedule pay rates under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315)” after “advice and consent of the Senate”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 11, 1980, see [section 9652 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9652).
