---
title: "§ 1701q–3. Funds for housing for elderly and persons with disabilities available for cost of maintenance and disposal of such properties"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701q–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701q–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–115, div. A, title III, § 313](/us/pl/109/115/dA/tIII/s313), Nov. 30, 2005, [119 Stat. 2463](/us/stat/119/2463).)"
---
# § 1701q–3. Funds for housing for elderly and persons with disabilities available for cost of maintenance and disposal of such properties

##### § 1701q–3. Funds for housing for elderly and persons with disabilities available for cost of maintenance and disposal of such properties

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for this fiscal year and every fiscal year thereafter, funds appropriated for housing for the elderly, as authorized by [section 1701q of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701q), as amended, and for supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as authorized by [section 8013 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s8013), shall be available for the cost of maintaining and disposing of such properties that are acquired or otherwise become the responsibility of the Department.

*([Pub. L. 109–115, div. A, title III, § 313](/us/pl/109/115/dA/tIII/s313), Nov. 30, 2005, [119 Stat. 2463](/us/stat/119/2463).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006, and also as part of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2006, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to this section were contained in the following prior appropriations acts:

[Pub. L. 108–447, div. I, title II, § 213](/us/pl/108/447/dI/tII/s213), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3318](/us/stat/118/3318).

[Pub. L. 108–199, div. G, title II, § 221](/us/pl/108/199/dG/tII/s221), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 398](/us/stat/118/398).
