---
title: "§ 1507. Effect of proceeding"
identifier: "USC-T17-S1507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title17-section1507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "17"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Q, title II, § 212(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dQ/tII/s212/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2195](/us/stat/134/2195).)"
---
# § 1507. Effect of proceeding

##### § 1507. Effect of proceeding

(a) Determination.— Subject to the reconsideration and review processes provided under subsections (w) and (x) of section 1506 and section 1508(c), the issuance of a final determination by the Copyright Claims Board in a proceeding, including a default determination or determination based on a failure to prosecute, shall, solely with respect to the parties to such determination, preclude relitigation before any court or tribunal, or before the Copyright Claims Board, of the claims and counterclaims asserted and finally determined by the Board, and may be relied upon for such purpose in a future action or proceeding arising from the same specific activity or activities, subject to the following:

(1) A determination of the Copyright Claims Board shall not preclude litigation or relitigation as between the same or different parties before any court or tribunal, or the Copyright Claims Board, of the same or similar issues of fact or law in connection with claims or counterclaims not asserted or not finally determined by the Copyright Claims Board.

(2) A determination of ownership of a copyrighted work for purposes of resolving a matter before the Copyright Claims Board may not be relied upon, and shall not have any preclusive effect, in any other action or proceeding before any court or tribunal, including the Copyright Claims Board.

(3) Except to the extent permitted under this subsection and section 1508, any determination of the Copyright Claims Board may not be cited or relied upon as legal precedent in any other action or proceeding before any court or tribunal, including the Copyright Claims Board.

(b) Class Actions Not Affected.—

(1) In general.— A proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board shall not have any effect on a class action proceeding in a district court of the United States, and section 1509(a) shall not apply to a class action proceeding in a district court of the United States.

(2) Notice of class action.— Any party to an active proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board who receives notice of a pending class action, arising out of the same transaction or occurrence as the proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board, in which the party is a class member shall either—

(A) opt out of the class action, in accordance with regulations established by the Register of Copyrights; or

(B) seek dismissal under section 1506(q)(3) of the proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board.

(c) Other Materials in Proceeding.— Except as permitted under this section and section 1508, a submission or statement of a party or witness made in connection with a proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board, including a proceeding that is dismissed, may not be cited or relied upon in, or serve as the basis of, any action or proceeding concerning rights or limitations on rights under this title before any court or tribunal, including the Copyright Claims Board.

(d) Applicability of Section 512(g).— A claim or counterclaim before the Copyright Claims Board that is brought under subsection (c)(1) or (c)(4) of section 1504, or brought under subsection (c)(6) of section 1504 and that relates to a claim under subsection (c)(1) or (c)(4) of such section, qualifies as an action seeking an order to restrain a subscriber from engaging in infringing activity under section 512(g)(2)(C) if—

(1) notice of the commencement of the Copyright Claims Board proceeding is provided by the claimant to the service provider’s designated agent before the service provider replaces the material following receipt of a counter notification under section 512(g); and

(2) the claim brought alleges infringement of the material identified in the notification of claimed infringement under section 512(c)(1)(C).

(e) Failure To Assert Counterclaim.— The failure or inability to assert a counterclaim in a proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board shall not preclude the assertion of that counterclaim in a subsequent court action or proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board.

(f) Opt-Out or Dismissal of Party.— If a party has timely opted out of a proceeding under section 1506(i) or is dismissed from a proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board issues a final determination in the proceeding, the determination shall not be binding upon and shall have no preclusive effect with respect to that party.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Q, title II, § 212(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dQ/tII/s212/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2195](/us/stat/134/2195).)*
