---
title: "§ 1815. Rules and regulations"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1815"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1815"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–471, title I, § 115](/us/pl/95/471/tI/s115), formerly § 114, Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1329](/us/stat/92/1329); renumbered § 115, [Pub. L. 98–192, § 4(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/192/s4/a/1), Dec. 1, 1983, [97 Stat. 1336](/us/stat/97/1336).)"
---
# § 1815. Rules and regulations

##### § 1815. Rules and regulations

(a) Consultation with national Indian organizations Within four months from October 17, 1978, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, consult with national Indian organizations to consider and formulate appropriate rules and regulations for the conduct of the grant program established by this subchapter.

(b) Publication Within six months from October 17, 1978, the Secretary shall publish proposed rules and regulations in the Federal Register for the purpose of receiving comments from interested parties.

(c) Promulgation Within ten months from October 17, 1978, the Secretary shall promulgate rules and regulations for the conduct of the grant program established by this subchapter.

(d) Source of appropriations Funds to carry out the purposes of this section may be drawn from general administrative appropriations to the Secretary made after October 17, 1978.

*([Pub. L. 95–471, title I, § 115](/us/pl/95/471/tI/s115), formerly § 114, Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1329](/us/stat/92/1329); renumbered § 115, [Pub. L. 98–192, § 4(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/192/s4/a/1), Dec. 1, 1983, [97 Stat. 1336](/us/stat/97/1336).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Promulgation of Regulations; Consultation

[Pub. L. 98–192, § 15](/us/pl/98/192/s15), Dec. 1, 1983, [97 Stat. 1343](/us/stat/97/1343), provided that: “In promulgating any regulations to implement the amendments made by this Act [enacting sections 1804a and 1831 to 1836 of this title and amending former section 640c–1 and sections 1801 to 1803 and 1805 to 1813 of this title], the Secretary of the Interior shall consult with tribally controlled community colleges.”
