---
title: "§ 2009aa–10. Records"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2009aa–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2009aa–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 382K](/us/pl/87/128/tIII/s382K), as added [Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title V, § 503]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/4/dB/tV/s503), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–280; amended [Pub. L. 111–8, div. A, title VII, § 733](/us/pl/111/8/dA/tVII/s733), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 558](/us/stat/123/558).)"
---
# § 2009aa–10. Records

##### § 2009aa–10. Records

(a) Records of the Authority

(1) In general The Authority shall maintain accurate and complete records of all transactions and activities of the Authority.

(2) Availability All records of the Authority shall be available for audit and examination by the Comptroller General of the United States and the Inspector General of the Department of Agriculture (including authorized representatives of the Comptroller General and the Inspector General of the Department of Agriculture).

(b) Records of recipients of Federal assistance

(1) In general A recipient of Federal funds under this subchapter shall, as required by the Authority, maintain accurate and complete records of transactions and activities financed with Federal funds and report on the transactions and activities to the Authority.

(2) Availability All records required under paragraph (1) shall be available for audit by the Comptroller General of the United States, the Inspector General of the Department of Agriculture, and the Authority (including authorized representatives of the Comptroller General, the Inspector General of the Department of Agriculture, and the Authority).

*([Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 382K](/us/pl/87/128/tIII/s382K), as added [Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title V, § 503]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/4/dB/tV/s503), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–280; amended [Pub. L. 111–8, div. A, title VII, § 733](/us/pl/111/8/dA/tVII/s733), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 558](/us/stat/123/558).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2009—[Pub. L. 111–8](/us/pl/111/8) struck out subsec. (c). Text read as follows: “The Inspector General of the Department of Agriculture shall audit the activities, transactions, and records of the Authority on an annual basis.”
