---
title: "§ 912. Air facility closures"
identifier: "USC-T14-S912"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section912"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 208(a)](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s208/a), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 38](/us/stat/130/38), § 676a; amended [Pub. L. 114–328, div. C, title XXXV, § 3503(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dC/tXXXV/s3503/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/130/2775); renumbered § 912 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), title III, § 319, Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat/132/4205), 4252.)"
---
# § 912. Air facility closures

##### § 912. Air facility closures

(a) Closures.—

(1) In general.— Beginning on January 1, 2018, the Secretary may not close a Coast Guard air facility, except as specified by this section.

(2) Determinations.— The Secretary may not propose closing or terminating operations at a Coast Guard air facility unless the Secretary determines that—

(A) remaining search and rescue capabilities maintain the safety of the maritime public in the area of the air facility;

(B) regional or local prevailing weather and marine conditions, including water temperatures or unusual tide and current conditions, do not require continued operation of the air facility; and

(C) Coast Guard search and rescue standards related to search and response times are met.

(3) Public notice and comment.—

(A) In general.— Prior to closing an air facility, the Secretary shall provide opportunities for public comment, including the convening of public meetings in communities in the area of responsibility of the air facility with regard to the proposed closure or cessation of operations at the air facility.

(B) Public meetings.— Prior to convening a public meeting under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall notify each congressional office representing any portion of the area of responsibility of the air station that is the subject to such public meeting of the schedule and location of such public meeting.

(4) Notice to congress.— Prior to closure, cessation of operations, or any significant reduction in personnel and use of a Coast Guard air facility that is in operation on or after December 31, 2017, the Secretary shall—

(A) submit to the Congress a proposal for such closure, cessation, or reduction in operations along with the budget of the President submitted to Congress under [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a) that includes—

(i) a discussion of the determination made by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (2); and

(ii) a report summarizing the public comments received by the Secretary under paragraph (3) 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “; and”.

(B) not later than 7 days after the date a proposal for an air facility is submitted pursuant to subparagraph (A), provide written notice of such proposal to each of the following:

(i) Each member of the House of Representatives who represents a district in which the air facility is located.

(ii) Each member of the Senate who represents a State in which the air facility is located.

(iii) Each member of the House of Representatives who represents a district in which assets of the air facility conduct search and rescue operations.

(iv) Each member of the Senate who represents a State in which assets of the air facility conduct search and rescue operations.

(v) The Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(vi) The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

(vii) The Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

(viii) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

(5) Congressional review.— The Secretary may not close, cease operations, or significantly reduce personnel and use of a Coast Guard air facility for which a written notice is provided under paragraph (4)(A) until a period of 18 months beginning on the date on which such notice is provided has elapsed.

(b) Operational Flexibility.— The Secretary may implement any reasonable management efficiencies within the air station and air facility network, such as modifying the operational posture of units or reallocating resources as necessary to ensure the safety of the maritime public nationwide.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 208(a)](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s208/a), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 38](/us/stat/130/38), § 676a; amended [Pub. L. 114–328, div. C, title XXXV, § 3503(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dC/tXXXV/s3503/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/130/2775); renumbered § 912 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), title III, § 319, Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat/132/4205), 4252.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s107/b), renumbered [section 676a of this title](/us/usc/t14/s676a) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 319(1)](/us/pl/115/282/s319/1), (2), redesignated subsec. (b) as (a) and struck out former subsec. (a) which prohibited the Coast Guard from closing certain air facilities or retiring, transferring, relocating, or deploying an aviation asset for the purpose of closing such facilities.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 319(3)(A)](/us/pl/115/282/s319/3/A), amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Prior to closing an air facility, the Secretary shall provide opportunities for public comment, including the convening of public meetings in communities in the area of responsibility of the air facility with regard to the proposed closure or cessation of operations at the air facility.”

Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 319(3)(B)(i)](/us/pl/115/282/s319/3/B/i), substituted “2017” for “2015” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(4)(A). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 319(3)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/115/282/s319/3/B/ii), amended subpar. (A) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (A) read as follows: “submit to the Congress a proposal for such closure, cessation, or reduction in operations along with the budget of the President submitted to Congress under [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a) for the fiscal year in which the action will be carried out; and”.

Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 319(3)(C)](/us/pl/115/282/s319/3/C), added par. (5).

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 319(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s319/2), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (a).

2016—Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) substituted “Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016” for “Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective as if included in the enactment of [Pub. L. 114–120](/us/pl/114/120), see [section 3503(e) of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s3503/e), set out as a note under [section 2182 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2182).
