---
title: "§ 4071h. General and administrative provisions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4071h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4071h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 859](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s859), as added [Pub. L. 99–335, title IV, § 415](/us/pl/99/335/tIV/s415), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 619](/us/stat/100/619).)"
---
# § 4071h. General and administrative provisions

##### § 4071h. General and administrative provisions

(a) Administration by Secretary of State; issuance of regulations The Secretary of State shall administer the Foreign Service Pension System except for matters relating to the Thrift Savings Plan provided in subchapters III and VII of chapter 84 of title 5. The Secretary of State shall, with respect to the Foreign Service Pension System, perform the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Office of Personnel Management or the Director of such Office by such chapter 84 and may issue regulations for such purposes.

(b) Appeal of determinations Determinations of the Secretary of State under the Foreign Service Pension System which, if made by the Office of Personnel Management under chapter 84 of title 5 or the Director of such Office, would be appealable to the Merit Systems Protection Board shall, instead, be appealable to the Foreign Service Grievance Board, except that determinations of disability for participants shall be based upon the standards in [section 4048 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4048) (other than the exclusion for vicious habits, intemperance, or willful misconduct) and subject to review in the same manner as under that section.

(c) Periodic valuations by Secretary of the Treasury At least every 5 years, the Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare periodic valuations of the Foreign Service Pension System and shall advise the Secretary of State of (1) the normal cost of the System, (2) the supplemental liability of the System, and (3) the amounts necessary to finance the costs of the System.

*([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 859](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s859), as added [Pub. L. 99–335, title IV, § 415](/us/pl/99/335/tIV/s415), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 619](/us/stat/100/619).)*
