---
title: "§ 2508. Encouragement and protection of small business"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–413, § 9](/us/pl/94/413/s9), Sept. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/90/1266); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/a), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577).)"
---
# § 2508. Encouragement and protection of small business

##### § 2508. Encouragement and protection of small business

(a) Opportunity to participate The Secretary of Energy shall take such steps as are feasible to assure that small business concerns have a realistic and adequate opportunity to participate in the project.

(b) Reservation of funds To assist in accomplishing the objectives of subsection (a), the Secretary of Energy shall reserve, for contracts with small business concerns, a reasonable portion of the funds made available pursuant to this chapter for research, development, or demonstration of electric or hybrid vehicles.

(c) Contract terms and conditions; planning grants The Secretary of Energy shall, in addition to the requirements set forth in subsections (a) and (b)—

(1) include in all contracts for research, development, or demonstration of electric or hybrid vehicles such terms, conditions, and payment schedules as may assist in meeting the needs of small business concerns, and shall take steps to avoid the inclusion in such contracts of any terms, conditions, or penalties which would tend to prevent such concerns from participating in the program under this chapter; and

(2) make planning grants available to qualified small business concerns which require assistance in developing, submitting, and entering into such contracts.

*([Pub. L. 94–413, § 9](/us/pl/94/413/s9), Sept. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/90/1266); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/a), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Energy” substituted in text for “Administrator” pursuant to [section 301(a) of Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91/s301/a), see Codification note set out under [section 2502 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2502).
