---
title: "§ 970. Forfeiture of Arkansas pipeline right of way for violation of antitrust law"
identifier: "USC-T43-S970"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section970"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Apr. 12, 1910, ch. 155, § 5](/us/act/1910-04-12/ch155/s5), [36 Stat. 296](/us/stat/36/296).)"
---
# § 970. Forfeiture of Arkansas pipeline right of way for violation of antitrust law

##### § 970. Forfeiture of Arkansas pipeline right of way for violation of antitrust law

If any citizen, company, or corporation taking advantage of the benefits of sections 966 to 970 of this title shall violate the Act of July 2, 1890, entitled “An Act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies”, (commonly known as the Sherman antitrust act), or any amendment thereof, the right of way granted in sections 966 to 970 of this title shall be forfeited without further action or declaration on the part of the Government or any proceedings or judgment of any court.

*([Apr. 12, 1910, ch. 155, § 5](/us/act/1910-04-12/ch155/s5), [36 Stat. 296](/us/stat/36/296).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of July 2, 1890, referred to in text, is [act July 2, 1890, ch. 647](/us/act/1890-07-02/ch647), [26 Stat. 209](/us/stat/26/209), known as the Sherman Act, which is classified to sections 1 to 7 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Repeal; Savings Provision

Section repealed by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2793](/us/stat/90/2793), effective on and after Oct. 21, 1976, insofar as applicable to the issuance of rights-of-way over, upon, under, and through the public lands and lands in the National Forest System. Such repeal not to be construed as terminating any valid lease, permit, patent, etc., existing on Oct. 21, 1976, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579/s701), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1701).
