---
title: "§ 3411. Suspension and termination of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S3411"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section3411"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–113, title XVII, § 1712](/us/pl/95/113/tXVII/s1712), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/91/1038).)"
---
# § 3411. Suspension and termination of orders

##### § 3411. Suspension and termination of orders

(a) Authority and responsibility of Secretary The Secretary shall, whenever he finds that any order issued under this chapter, or any provision thereof, obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of this chapter, terminate or suspend the operation of such order or such provision thereof.

(b) Referendum The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time, and shall hold a referendum on request of 10 per centum or more of the number of end product manufacturers subject to the order, to determine whether such manufacturers favor the termination or suspension of the order, and the Secretary shall suspend or terminate such order within six months after the Secretary determines that suspension or termination of the order is approved or favored by a majority of the end product manufacturers voting in such referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the manufacture of end products or by end product manufacturers who produced end products containing more than 50 per centum of the total processed wheat contained in all end products manufactured during such period by the end product manufacturers voting in the referendum.

(c) Suspension or termination of order not to be considered an order The termination or suspension of any order, or any provision thereof, shall not be considered an order within the meaning of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 95–113, title XVII, § 1712](/us/pl/95/113/tXVII/s1712), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/91/1038).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1977, see [section 1901 of Pub. L. 95–113](/us/pl/95/113/s1901), set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under [section 1307 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1307).
