---
title: "§ 50114. National maritime strategy"
identifier: "USC-T46-S50114"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section50114"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3542(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3542/b/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3096](/us/stat/136/3096).)"
---
# § 50114. National maritime strategy

##### § 50114. National maritime strategy

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating and the Commander of United States Transportation Command, shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate—

(1) a national maritime strategy; and

(2) not less often than once every five years after the submission of such strategy, an update to the strategy.

(b) Contents.— The strategy required under subsection (a) shall include each of the following:

(1) An identification of—

(A) international policies and Federal regulations and policies that reduce the competitiveness of United States-documented vessels with foreign vessels in domestic and international transportation markets; and

(B) the impact of reduced cargo flow due to reductions in the number of members of the United States Armed Forces stationed or deployed outside of the United States.

(2) Recommendations to—

(A) make United States-documented vessels more competitive in shipping routes between United States and foreign ports;

(B) increase the use of United States-documented vessels to carry cargo imported to and exported from the United States;

(C) ensure compliance by Federal agencies with chapter 553;

(D) increase the use of short sea transportation routes, including routes designated under section 55601(b), to enhance intermodal freight movements;

(E) enhance United States shipbuilding capability;

(F) invest in, and identify gaps in, infrastructure needed to facilitate the movement of goods at ports and throughout the transportation system, including innovative physical and information technologies;

(G) enhance workforce training and recruitment for the maritime workforce, including training on innovative physical and information technologies;

(H) increase the resilience of ports and the marine transportation system;

(I) increase the carriage of government-impelled cargo on United States-documented vessels pursuant to chapter 553 of title 46, [section 2631 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2631), or otherwise; and

(J) maximize the cost effectiveness of Federal funding for carriage of non-defense government impelled cargo for the purposes of maintaining a United States flag fleet for national and economic security.

(c) Update.— Upon the release of a strategy or update under subsection (a), the Secretary of Transportation shall make such strategy or update publicly available on the website of the Department of Transportation.

(d) Implementation Plan.— Not later than six months after the submission of a strategy or update under subsection (a), the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating and the Secretary of Defense, shall make publicly available on an appropriate website an implementation plan for such strategy or update.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3542(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3542/b/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3096](/us/stat/136/3096).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Accountability for National Maritime Strategy

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. C, title XXXV, § 3537](/us/pl/118/31/dC/tXXXV/s3537), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 835](/us/stat/137/835), provided that: “(a) Biannual Briefing.—“(1) Requirement.—Not less than twice annually, the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, in consultation with the National Security Council, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees briefings on the status of establishing the type of national maritime strategy required under [section 50114 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s50114), United States Code. The Chief of Naval Operations, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall participate in each briefing required under this paragraph. “(2) Use.—The Administrator shall use the briefings required under paragraph (1) to augment and influence the national maritime strategy discussion with national security focused stakeholders across the administration, until an updated strategy is published and endorsed by the President of the United States. “(b) Elements.—As the national maritime strategy relates to national security, each briefing under subsection (a) shall include the following:“(1) Recommendations for a whole-of-Government approach to orchestrating national instruments of power to shape all elements of the maritime enterprise of the United States, domestic and international, on the high seas or domestic waterways. “(2) An assessment of great power competition in the maritime domain, to include opportunities for increased cooperation with allied and partner global maritime industry leaders to improve national shipbuilding and shipping, while promoting the international rules-based maritime order. “(3) An analysis of existing shipyards to build and capitalize on the virtuous cycle between commercial and military shipbuilding and repair, including areas of improvement. “(4) An analysis of opportunities for private or public financing to increase the capacity, efficiency, and effectiveness of United States shipyards, including infrastructure, labor force, technology, and global competitiveness. “(5) An analysis of potential improvements to national or cooperative arrangements for sealift capacity and shipping, including for contested logistics. “(c) Appropriate Congressional Committees.—In this section, the term ‘appropriate congressional committees’ means—“(1) the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives]; “(2) and [sic] the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives; and “(3) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.”

#### Deadline for Submission of Strategy

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3542(b)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3542/b/2/B), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3098](/us/stat/136/3098), provided that: “The Secretary [of Transportation] shall submit the national maritime strategy required under [section 50114(a)(1) of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s50114/a/1), United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), not later than six months after the date on which the Secretary receives the study under subsection (a).”
