---
title: "§ 2352. Use of national emergency authorities; reporting"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2352"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2352"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–50, div. E, title I, § 3102](/us/pl/118/50/dE/tI/s3102), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 936](/us/stat/138/936).)"
---
# § 2352. Use of national emergency authorities; reporting

##### § 2352. Use of national emergency authorities; reporting

(a) In general The President may exercise all authorities provided under sections 1702 and 1704 of title 50 to carry out this subchapter.

(b) Report required

(1) In general Not later than 180 days after April 24, 2024, and annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on actions taken by the executive branch pursuant to this subchapter and any national emergency declared with respect to the trafficking of fentanyl and trade in other illicit drugs, including—

(A) the issuance of any new or revised regulations, policies, or guidance;

(B) the imposition of sanctions;

(C) the collection of relevant information from outside parties;

(D) the issuance or closure of general licenses, specific licenses, and statements of licensing policy by the Office of Foreign Assets Control;

(E) a description of any pending enforcement cases; and

(F) the implementation of mitigation procedures.

(2) Form of report Each report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include the matters required under subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), and (F) of such paragraph in a classified annex.

*([Pub. L. 118–50, div. E, title I, § 3102](/us/pl/118/50/dE/tI/s3102), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 936](/us/stat/138/936).)*
