---
title: "§ 1107. Extension of major acquisition program contracts"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 899(b)(1)(E)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s899/b/1/E), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2334](/us/stat/130/2334), § 579; renumbered § 1107 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 108(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/132/4208), 4240.)"
---
# § 1107. Extension of major acquisition program contracts

##### § 1107. Extension of major acquisition program contracts

(a) In General.— Notwithstanding [section 1105(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t14/s1105/a/2) and section 2304 11 See References in Text note below. of title 10, and subject to subsections (b) and (c) of this section, the Secretary may acquire additional units procured under a Coast Guard major acquisition program contract, by extension of such contract without competition, if the Director of the Cost Analysis Division of the Department of Homeland Security determines that the costs that would be saved through award of a new contract in accordance with such sections would not exceed the costs of such an award.

(b) Limitation on Number of Additional Units.— The number of additional units acquired under a contract extension under this section may not exceed the number of additional units for which such determination is made.

(c) Determination of Costs Upon Request.— The Director of the Cost Analysis Division of the Department of Homeland Security shall, at the request of the Secretary, determine for purposes of this section—

(1) the costs that would be saved through award of a new major acquisition program contract in accordance with section 1105(a)(2) for the acquisition of a number of additional units specified by the Secretary; and

(2) the costs of such award, including the costs that would be incurred due to acquisition schedule delays and asset design changes associated with such award.

(d) Number of Extensions.— A contract may be extended under this section more than once.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 899(b)(1)(E)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s899/b/1/E), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2334](/us/stat/130/2334), § 579; renumbered § 1107 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 108(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/132/4208), 4240.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2304 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2304), referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII), §§ 1801(d), 1881(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4151](/us/stat/134/4151), 4293, effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law. Subsecs. (a) to (*l*) of section 2304 were transferred to various provisions in chapter 221 of this title, with the same effective date and conditions, by [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1811(c)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1811/c/2)–(5), (d)(2)–(9), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4165–4170](/us/stat/134/4165-4170).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s108/b), renumbered [section 579 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s579) as this section.

Subsecs. (a), (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 1105(a)(2)” for “section 564(a)(2)”.
