---
title: "§ 21901. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–468, title II, § 201](/us/pl/106/468/tII/s201), as added [Pub. L. 115–401, § 2(5)](/us/pl/115/401/s2/5), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5336](/us/stat/132/5336).)"
---
# § 21901. Definitions

##### § 21901. Definitions

(1) AMBER Alert communications network The term “AMBER Alert communications network” means the AMBER Alert communications network established under subtitle A of title III of the PROTECT Act ([34 U.S.C. 20501](/us/usc/t34/s20501) et seq.).

(2) Ashanti Alert The term “Ashanti Alert” means an alert issued through the Ashanti Alert communications network, related to a missing adult.

(3) Ashanti Alert communications network The term “Ashanti Alert communications network” means the national communications network established by the Attorney General under [section 21902(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s21902/a).

(4) Ashanti Alert Coordinator of the Department of Justice; Coordinator The term “Ashanti Alert Coordinator of the Department of Justice” or “Coordinator” means the employee designated by the Attorney General to act as the national coordinator of the Ashanti Alert communications network under [section 21903(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s21903/a).

(5) Ashanti Alert plan The term “Ashanti Alert plan” means a local element of the Ashanti Alert communications network.

(6) Indian Tribe The term “Indian Tribe” means a federally recognized Indian Tribe or a Native village, Regional Corporation, or Village Corporation (as those terms are defined in [section 1602 of title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1602)).

(7) Missing adult The term “missing adult” means an individual who—

(A) is older than the age for which an alert may be issued through the AMBER Alert communications network in the State or territory of an Indian Tribe in which the individual is identified as a missing individual;

(B) is identified by a law enforcement agency as a missing individual; and

(C) meets the requirements to be designated as a missing adult, as determined by the State in which, or the Indian Tribe in the territory of which, the individual is identified as a missing individual.

(8) State The term “State” means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

*([Pub. L. 106–468, title II, § 201](/us/pl/106/468/tII/s201), as added [Pub. L. 115–401, § 2(5)](/us/pl/115/401/s2/5), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5336](/us/stat/132/5336).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The PROTECT Act, referred to in par. (1), is [Pub. L. 108–21](/us/pl/108/21), Apr. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 650](/us/stat/117/650), also known as the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003. Subtitle A of title III of the Act is classified generally to chapter 205 (§ 20501 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2003 Amendment note set out under [section 1 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and Tables.
