---
title: "§ 6123. Acceleration of depleted uranium manufacturing processes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1359](/us/stat/139/1359).)"
---
# § 6123. Acceleration of depleted uranium manufacturing processes

##### § 6123. Acceleration of depleted uranium manufacturing processes

(a) Acceleration of Manufacturing.— The Administrator shall require the nuclear security enterprise to accelerate the modernization of manufacturing processes for depleted uranium by 2030 so that the nuclear security enterprise—

(1) demonstrates bulk cold hearth melting of depleted uranium alloys to augment existing capabilities on an operational basis for war reserve components;

(2) manufactures, on a repeatable and ongoing basis, war reserve depleted uranium alloy components using net shape casting;

(3) demonstrates, if possible, a production facility to conduct routine operations for manufacturing depleted uranium alloy components outside of the current perimeter security fencing of the Y-12 National Security Complex, Oak Ridge, Tennessee; and

(4) has available high purity depleted uranium for the production of war reserve components.

(b) Annual Briefing.— Not later than March 31, 2023, and annually thereafter through 2030, the Administrator shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on—

(1) progress made in carrying out subsection (a);

(2) the cost of activities conducted under such subsection during the preceding fiscal year; and

(3) the ability of the nuclear security enterprise to convert depleted uranium fluoride hexafluoride to depleted uranium tetrafluoride.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1359](/us/stat/139/1359).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 3121 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s3121), which was set out as a note under [section 2532 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2532), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(11)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/11).
