---
title: "§ 524. Information on shipments to be given Chairman of National Munitions Control Board"
identifier: "USC-T22-S524"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section524"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([June 15, 1940, ch. 365, § 4](/us/act/1940-06-15/ch365/s4), [54 Stat. 397](/us/stat/54/397); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 524. Information on shipments to be given Chairman of National Munitions Control Board

##### § 524. Information on shipments to be given Chairman of National Munitions Control Board

The Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Navy, as the case may be, shall, when any arms, ammunition, implements of war, or equipment are exported pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, immediately inform the Secretary of State, Chairman of the National Munitions Control Board, of the quantities, character, value, terms of sale, and destination of the arms, ammunition, implements of war, or equipment so exported. Such information shall be included in the annual report of the Board.

*([June 15, 1940, ch. 365, § 4](/us/act/1940-06-15/ch365/s4), [54 Stat. 397](/us/stat/54/397); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

National Munitions Control Board, referred to in text, was established under [section 452 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s452), which was repealed by [act Aug. 26, 1954, ch. 937, title V, § 542(a)(12)](/us/act/1954-08-26/ch937/tV/s542/a/12), [68 Stat. 861](/us/stat/68/861). See [section 2778 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2778).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Secretary of the Air Force

For transfer of certain procurement and related functions and property, insofar as they pertain to Air Force, from Secretary of the Army and Department of the Army to Secretary of the Air Force and Department of the Air Force, see Secretary of Defense Transfer Order Nos. 6 [§ 1(a)(41)], eff. Jan. 15, 1948; 39 [§ 2zz], May 18, 1949.
