---
title: "§ 502. Creation of advisory committees"
identifier: "USC-T22-S502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Aug. 9, 1939, ch. 616, § 2](/us/act/1939-08-09/ch616/s2), [53 Stat. 1290](/us/stat/53/1290).)"
---
# § 502. Creation of advisory committees

##### § 502. Creation of advisory committees

The President is authorized to create such advisory committees as in his judgment may be of assistance in carrying out the undertakings of this Government under the treaties, resolutions, declarations, and recommendations referred to, but no committee or member thereof shall be allowed any salary or other compensation for services: *Provided, however*, That they may, within the limits of appropriations made available therefor by the Congress, which appropriations are authorized, be paid their actual transportation expenses and not to exceed $10 per diem in lieu of subsistence and other expenses while away from their homes in attendance upon meetings within the United States under instructions from the Secretary of State.

*([Aug. 9, 1939, ch. 616, § 2](/us/act/1939-08-09/ch616/s2), [53 Stat. 1290](/us/stat/53/1290).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, and advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
