---
title: "§ 5545. House Services Revolving Fund"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5545"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5545"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 105](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s105), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3175](/us/stat/118/3175); [Pub. L. 109–13, div. A, title III, § 3401(b)](/us/pl/109/13/dA/tIII/s3401/b), May 11, 2005, [119 Stat. 272](/us/stat/119/272); [Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s104/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2225](/us/stat/121/2225); [Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI/s102/b), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 817](/us/stat/123/817); [P"
---
# § 5545. House Services Revolving Fund

##### § 5545. House Services Revolving Fund

(a) Establishment of House Services Revolving Fund There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a revolving fund for the House of Representatives to be known as the “House Services Revolving Fund” (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Revolving Fund”), consisting of funds deposited by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives from all amounts received by the House of Representatives with respect to the following activities:

(1) The operation of the House Barber Shop.

(2) The operation of the House Beauty Shop.

(3) The operation of the House Restaurant System (including vending operations).

(4) The provision of mail services to entities which are not part of the House of Representatives.

(5) The payment of fees for the use of the exercise facility described in section 103(a).11 See References in Text note below.

(6) The collection of promotional rebates and incentives on credit card purchases, balances, and payments.

(7) The collection of a service fee from vendors of the Master Web Services Agreement or the Technology Services Contract for failure to abide by and maintain House of Representatives security policies.

(8) The operation of the House Dry Cleaning and Laundry Service.

(9) Other activities related to the operation of services offered by the House of Representatives, as approved by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(b) Use of amounts in Fund Amounts in the Revolving Funds 22 So in original. Probably should be “Fund”. shall be used for any purpose designated by the Chief Administrative Officer, including purposes relating to energy and water conservation and environmental activities carried out in buildings, facilities, and grounds under the Chief Administrative Officer’s jurisdiction, upon notification provided by the Chief Administrative Officer to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(c) Transfer authority The Revolving Fund shall be treated as a category of allowances and expenses for purposes of [section 5507(a) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5507/a).

(d) Termination and transfer of existing funds and accounts

(1) In general Each fund and account specified in paragraph (2) is hereby terminated, and the balance of each such fund and account is hereby transferred to the Revolving Fund.

(2) Funds and accounts specified The funds and accounts referred to in paragraph (1) are as follows:

(A) The revolving fund for the House Barber Shop, established by the paragraph under the heading “HOUSE BARBER SHOPS REVOLVING FUND” in the matter relating to the House of Representatives in chapter III of title I of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1975 ([Public Law 93–554](/us/pl/93/554); [88 Stat. 1776](/us/stat/88/1776)).

(B) The revolving funds for the House Beauty Shop, established by the matter under the heading “house beauty shop” in the matter relating to administrative provisions for the House of Representatives in the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1970 ([Public Law 91–145](/us/pl/91/145); [83 Stat. 347](/us/stat/83/347)).

(C) The special deposit account established for the House of Representatives Restaurant by section 208 of the First Supplemental Civil Functions Appropriation Act, 1941, or any successor fund or account established for the receipt of revenues of the House Restaurant System.

(e) Effective date This section shall take effect October 1, 2004, and shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2005 and each succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 105](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s105), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3175](/us/stat/118/3175); [Pub. L. 109–13, div. A, title III, § 3401(b)](/us/pl/109/13/dA/tIII/s3401/b), May 11, 2005, [119 Stat. 272](/us/stat/119/272); [Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s104/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2225](/us/stat/121/2225); [Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI/s102/b), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 817](/us/stat/123/817); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. I, title I, § 118(a)](/us/pl/115/141/dI/tI/s118/a), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 777](/us/stat/132/777); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. I, title I, § 115(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dI/tI/s115/a), (b), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4923](/us/stat/136/4923).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 103(a), referred to in subsec. (a)(5), means [section 103(a) of Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447/s103/a), div. G, title I, Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3174](/us/stat/118/3174), which is not classified to the Code.

Section 208 of the First Supplemental Civil Functions Appropriation Act, 1941, referred to in subsec. (d)(2)(C), means section 208 of [act Oct. 9, 1940, ch. 780, title II](/us/act/1940-10-09/ch780/tII), [54 Stat. 1056](/us/stat/54/1056), which was classified to section 174k of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 221(3)(B)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s221/3/B), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1748](/us/stat/110/1748).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 117m of this title](/us/usc/t2/s117m) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005, which is div. G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a)(8), (9). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 115(a)](/us/pl/117/328/s115/a), added pars. (8) and (9).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 115(b)](/us/pl/117/328/s115/b), substituted “upon notification provided by the Chief Administrative Officer to” for “which is approved by”.

2018—Subsec. (a)(7). [Pub. L. 115–141](/us/pl/115/141) added par. (7).

2009—Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 111–8](/us/pl/111/8) added par. (6).

2007—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161) substituted “the Chief Administrative Officer, including purposes relating to energy and water conservation and environmental activities carried out in buildings, facilities, and grounds under the Chief Administrative Officer’s jurisdiction,” for “the Chief Administrative Officer”.

2005—Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 109–13](/us/pl/109/13) added par. (5).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–328, div. I, title I, § 115(c)](/us/pl/117/328/dI/tI/s115/c), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4923](/us/stat/136/4923), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2023 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–141, div. I, title I, § 118(b)](/us/pl/115/141/dI/tI/s118/b), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 777](/us/stat/132/777), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 23, 2018].”

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I, § 102(c)](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI/s102/c), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 817](/us/stat/123/817), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2009 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s104/b), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2225](/us/stat/121/2225), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2008 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

#### Effective Date of 2005 Amendment

[Pub. L. 109–13, div. A, title III, § 3401(c)](/us/pl/109/13/dA/tIII/s3401/c), May 11, 2005, [119 Stat. 272](/us/stat/119/272), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005 [[Pub. L. 108–447, div. G](/us/pl/108/447/dG)].”

#### Membership in House of Representatives Exercise Facility for Active Duty Armed Forces Members Assigned to Congressional Liaison Office

[Pub. L. 111–248, § 1](/us/pl/111/248/s1), Sept. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 2625](/us/stat/124/2625), provided that: “Any active duty member of the Armed Forces who is assigned to a congressional liaison office of the Armed Forces at the House of Representatives may obtain membership in the exercise facility established for employees of the House of Representatives (as described in section 103(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005 [[118 Stat. 3174](/us/stat/118/3174)]) in the same manner as an employee of the House of Representatives, in accordance with such regulations as the Committee on House Administration may promulgate.”
