---
title: "§ 4182. Termination of new commitments for rental assistance"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4182"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4182"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–330, title V, § 503](/us/pl/104/330/tV/s503), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4043](/us/stat/110/4043).)"
---
# § 4182. Termination of new commitments for rental assistance

##### § 4182. Termination of new commitments for rental assistance

After September 30, 1997, financial assistance for rental housing assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937 [[42 U.S.C. 1437](/us/usc/t42/s1437) et seq.] may not be provided to any Indian housing authority or tribally designated housing entity, unless such assistance is provided pursuant to a contract for such assistance entered into by the Secretary and the Indian housing authority before such date. Any such assistance provided pursuant to such a contract shall be governed by the provisions of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (as in effect before the date of the effectiveness of this chapter) and the provisions of such contract.

*([Pub. L. 104–330, title V, § 503](/us/pl/104/330/tV/s503), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4043](/us/stat/110/4043).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The United States Housing Act of 1937, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896](/us/act/1937-09-01/ch896), as revised generally by [Pub. L. 93–383, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/93/383/tII/s201/a), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 653](/us/stat/88/653), which is classified generally to chapter 8 (§ 1437 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1437 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1437) and Tables.

For the date of the effectiveness of this chapter, referred to in text, as Oct. 1, 1997, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s107), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4101).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 26, 1996, see [section 508 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s508), set out as a note under [section 4181 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4181).
