---
title: "§ 1424–4. Criminal offenses; procedure; definitions"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1424–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1424–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, § 22D](/us/act/1950-08-01/ch512/s22D), as added [Pub. L. 98–454, title VIII, § 801](/us/pl/98/454/tVIII/s801), Oct. 5, 1984, [98 Stat. 1743](/us/stat/98/1743).)"
---
# § 1424–4. Criminal offenses; procedure; definitions

##### § 1424–4. Criminal offenses; procedure; definitions

Where appropriate, the provisions of part II of title 18 and of title 28, United States Code, and notwithstanding the provision in rule 54(a) Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure relating to the prosecution of criminal offenses on Guam by information, the rules of practice and procedure heretofore or hereafter promulgated and made effective by the Congress or the Supreme Court of the United States pursuant to titles 11, 18, and 28, United States Code, shall apply to the District Court of Guam and appeals therefrom; except that the terms, “Attorney for the government” and “United States attorney”, as used in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall, when applicable to cases arising under the laws of Guam, including the Guam Territorial income tax, mean the Attorney General of Guam or such other person or persons as may be authorized by the laws of Guam to act therein.

*([Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, § 22D](/us/act/1950-08-01/ch512/s22D), as added [Pub. L. 98–454, title VIII, § 801](/us/pl/98/454/tVIII/s801), Oct. 5, 1984, [98 Stat. 1743](/us/stat/98/1743).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, referred to in text, are set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see [section 1005 of Pub. L. 98–454](/us/pl/98/454/s1005), set out as an Effective Date of 1984 Amendment note under [section 1424 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1424).
