---
title: "§ 44808. Carriage of property by small unmanned aircraft systems for compensation or hire"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44808"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44808"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 348(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s348/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3297](/us/stat/132/3297).)"
---
# § 44808. Carriage of property by small unmanned aircraft systems for compensation or hire

##### § 44808. Carriage of property by small unmanned aircraft systems for compensation or hire

(a) In General.— Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall update existing regulations to authorize the carriage of property by operators of small unmanned aircraft systems for compensation or hire within the United States.

(b) Contents.— Any rulemaking conducted under subsection (a) shall provide for the following:

(1) Use performance-based requirements.

(2) Consider varying levels of risk to other aircraft and to persons and property on the ground posed by different unmanned aircraft systems and their operation and tailor performance-based requirements to appropriately mitigate risk.

(3) Consider the unique characteristics of highly automated, small unmanned aircraft systems.

(4) Include requirements for the safe operation of small unmanned aircraft systems that, at a minimum, address—

(A) airworthiness of small unmanned aircraft systems;

(B) qualifications for operators and the type and nature of the operations;

(C) operating specifications governing the type and nature of the unmanned aircraft system air carrier operations; and

(D) the views of State, local, and tribal officials related to potential impacts of the carriage of property by operators of small unmanned aircraft systems for compensation or hire within the communities to be served.

(5) Small uas.— The Secretary may amend part 298 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, to update existing regulations to establish economic authority for the carriage of property by small unmanned aircraft systems for compensation or hire. Such authority shall only require—

(A) registration with the Department of Transportation;

(B) authorization from the Federal Aviation Administration to conduct operations; and

(C) compliance with chapters 401, 411, and 417.

(6) Availability of current certification processes.— Pending completion of the rulemaking required in subsection (a) of this section, a person may seek an air carrier operating certificate and certificate of public convenience and necessity, or an exemption from such certificate, using existing processes.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 348(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s348/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3297](/us/stat/132/3297).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254), which was approved Oct. 5, 2018.
