---
title: "§ 1138. Evaluation and audit of National Transportation Safety Board"
identifier: "USC-T49-S1138"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section1138"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–443, § 5(a)](/us/pl/109/443/s5/a), Dec. 21, 2006, [120 Stat. 3299](/us/stat/120/3299); amended [Pub. L. 113–188, title XV, § 1502](/us/pl/113/188/tXV/s1502), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2025](/us/stat/128/2025); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. C, § 1110](/us/pl/115/254/dC/s1110), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3435](/us/stat/132/3435); [Pub. L. 118–63, title XII, § 1221(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tXII/s1221/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1432](/us/stat/138/1432).)"
---
# § 1138. Evaluation and audit of National Transportation Safety Board

##### § 1138. Evaluation and audit of National Transportation Safety Board

(a) In General.— To promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of the programs, operations, and activities of the National Transportation Safety Board, the Comptroller General of the United States shall evaluate and audit the programs and expenditures of the Board. Such evaluation and audit shall be conducted as determined necessary by the Comptroller General or the appropriate congressional committees.

(b) Responsibility of Comptroller General.— The Comptroller General shall evaluate and audit Board programs, operations, and activities, including—

(1) information management and security, including privacy protection of personally identifiable information;

(2) resource management;

(3) workforce development;

(4) procurement and contracting planning, practices and policies;

(5) the process and procedures to select an accident to investigate;

(6) the extent to which the Board follows leading practices in selected management areas; and

(7) the extent to which the Board addresses management challenges in completing accident investigations.

(c) Appropriate Congressional Committees.— For purposes of this section the term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–443, § 5(a)](/us/pl/109/443/s5/a), Dec. 21, 2006, [120 Stat. 3299](/us/stat/120/3299); amended [Pub. L. 113–188, title XV, § 1502](/us/pl/113/188/tXV/s1502), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2025](/us/stat/128/2025); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. C, § 1110](/us/pl/115/254/dC/s1110), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3435](/us/stat/132/3435); [Pub. L. 118–63, title XII, § 1221(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tXII/s1221/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1432](/us/stat/138/1432).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63) substituted “expenditures of the” for “expenditures of the National Transportation Safety”.

2018—Subsec. (b)(5) to (7). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1110(1)](/us/pl/115/254/s1110/1), added par. (5) and redesignated former pars. (5) and (6) as (6) and (7), respectively.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1110(2)](/us/pl/115/254/s1110/2), inserted comma after “Science”.

2014—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–188](/us/pl/113/188) struck out “at least annually, but may be conducted” after “Such evaluation and audit shall be conducted”.
