---
title: "§ 6301. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 887](/us/stat/126/887).)"
---
# § 6301. Definitions

##### § 6301. Definitions

(1) Bureau.— The term “Bureau” means the Bureau of Transportation Statistics established by section 6302(a).

(2) Department.— The term “Department” means the Department of Transportation.

(3) Director.— The term “Director” means the Director of the Bureau.

(4) Library.— The term “Library” means the National Transportation Library established by section 6304(a).

(5) Secretary.— The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Transportation.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 887](/us/stat/126/887).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.

#### Construction

[Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(b)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/b), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 895](/us/stat/126/895), provided that: “If the provisions of [section 111 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s111), United States Code, are transferred to chapter 63 of that title, the following rules of construction apply: “(1) For purposes of determining whether 1 provision of law supersedes another based on enactment later in time, a chapter 63 provision is deemed to have been enacted on the date of enactment of the corresponding section 111 provision [[section 111 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s111) was enacted Dec. 18, 1991]. “(2) A reference to a section 111 provision, including a reference in a regulation, order, or other law, is deemed to refer to the corresponding chapter 63 provision. “(3) A regulation, order, or other administrative action in effect under a section 111 provision continues in effect under the corresponding chapter 63 provision. “(4) An action taken or an offense committed under a section 111 provision is deemed to have been taken or committed under the corresponding chapter 63 provision.”
