---
title: "§ 617. Engaging in commerce or trade in commodities; price fixing; forfeiture of charter; acts forbidden to directors, officers, agents, or employees"
identifier: "USC-T12-S617"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section617"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 25A](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s25A) (par.), formerly § 25(a), as added [Dec. 24, 1919, ch. 18](/us/act/1919-12-24/ch18), [41 Stat. 378](/us/stat/41/378); renumbered § 25A, [Pub. L. 102–242, title I, § 142(e)(2)](/us/pl/102/242/tI/s142/e/2), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2281](/us/stat/105/2281).)"
---
# § 617. Engaging in commerce or trade in commodities; price fixing; forfeiture of charter; acts forbidden to directors, officers, agents, or employees

##### § 617. Engaging in commerce or trade in commodities; price fixing; forfeiture of charter; acts forbidden to directors, officers, agents, or employees

No corporation organized under this subchapter shall engage in commerce or trade in commodities except as specifically provided in this subchapter, nor shall it, either directly or indirectly, control or fix or attempt to control or fix the price of any such commodities. The charter of any corporation violating this provision shall be subject to forfeiture in the manner provided in this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any director, officer, agent, or employee of any such corporation to use or to conspire to use the credit, the funds, or the power of the corporation to fix or control the price of any such commodities, and any such person violating this provision shall be liable to a fine of not less than $1,000 and not exceeding $5,000 or imprisonment not less than one year and not exceeding five years, or both, in the discretion of the court.

*([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 25A](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s25A) (par.), formerly § 25(a), as added [Dec. 24, 1919, ch. 18](/us/act/1919-12-24/ch18), [41 Stat. 378](/us/stat/41/378); renumbered § 25A, [Pub. L. 102–242, title I, § 142(e)(2)](/us/pl/102/242/tI/s142/e/2), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2281](/us/stat/105/2281).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this section”, meaning section 25A of act Dec. 23, 1913, which is classified to this subchapter (§ 611 et seq.).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of par. 9 (undesignated) of section 25A of act Dec. 23, 1913, which comprises this subchapter. For complete classification of section 25A of this Act, see Codification note set out under [section 611 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s611).
