---
title: "§ 17353. Duties of Foundation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17353"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17353"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 923](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s923), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1735](/us/stat/121/1735).)"
---
# § 17353. Duties of Foundation

##### § 17353. Duties of Foundation

(1) use the funds authorized by this part to make grants to promote projects outside of the United States that serve as models of how to significantly reduce the emissions of global greenhouse gases through clean and efficient energy technologies, processes, and services;

(2) seek contributions from foreign governments, especially those rich in energy resources such as member countries of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, and private organizations to supplement funds made available under this part;

(3) harness global expertise through collaborative partnerships with foreign governments and domestic and foreign private actors, including nongovernmental organizations and private sector companies, by leveraging public and private capital, technology, expertise, and services towards innovative models that can be instituted to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions;

(4) create a repository of information on best practices and lessons learned on the utilization and implementation of clean and efficient energy technologies and processes to be used for future initiatives to tackle the climate change crisis;

(5) be committed to minimizing administrative costs and to maximizing the availability of funds for grants under this part; and

(6) promote the use of American-made clean and efficient energy technologies, processes, and services by giving preference to entities incorporated in the United States and whose technology will be substantially manufactured in the United States.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 923](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s923), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1735](/us/stat/121/1735).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
