---
title: "§ 4123. Authority of Attending Physician in response to medical contingencies or public health emergencies at Capitol"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–199, div. H, § 151](/us/pl/108/199/dH/s151), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 448](/us/stat/118/448).)"
---
# § 4123. Authority of Attending Physician in response to medical contingencies or public health emergencies at Capitol

##### § 4123. Authority of Attending Physician in response to medical contingencies or public health emergencies at Capitol

(a) In general The Attending Physician to Congress shall have the authority and responsibility for overseeing and coordinating the use of medical assets in response to a bioterrorism event and other medical contingencies or public health emergencies occurring within the Capitol Buildings or the United States Capitol Grounds. This shall include the authority to enact quarantine and to declare death. These actions will be carried out in close cooperation and communication with the Commissioner of Public Health, Chief Medical Examiner, and other Public Health Officials of the District of Columbia government.

(b) Definitions In this section—

(1) the term “Capitol Buildings” has the meaning given such term in [section 5101 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s5101); and

(2) the term “United States Capitol Grounds” has the meaning given such term in [section 5102(a) of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s5102/a).

(c) Effective date Subsection (a) shall take effect on January 23, 2004, and shall apply during any fiscal year occurring on or after January 23, 2004.

*([Pub. L. 108–199, div. H, § 151](/us/pl/108/199/dH/s151), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 448](/us/stat/118/448).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 121g of this title](/us/usc/t2/s121g) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
