---
title: "§ 1803. Delegation of authority"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1803"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1803"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Aug. 5, 1955, ch. 568](/us/act/1955-08-05/ch568), [69 Stat. 515](/us/stat/69/515); [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1205](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1205), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 375](/us/stat/117/375); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. O, title VII, § 701(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dO/tVII/s701/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2154](/us/stat/134/2154).)"
---
# § 1803. Delegation of authority

##### § 1803. Delegation of authority

The Architect of the Capitol may delegate the duties and authorities of the Architect to officers and employees of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, as the Architect determines appropriate.

*([Aug. 5, 1955, ch. 568](/us/act/1955-08-05/ch568), [69 Stat. 515](/us/stat/69/515); [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1205](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1205), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 375](/us/stat/117/375); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. O, title VII, § 701(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dO/tVII/s701/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2154](/us/stat/134/2154).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 163b of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1956.

#### Amendments

2020—[Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) substituted “delegate the duties and authorities of the Architect to officers and employees of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, as the Architect determines appropriate” for “delegate to the assistants of the Architect such authority of the Architect as the Architect may determine proper, except those authorities, duties, and responsibilities specifically assigned to the Deputy Architect of the Capitol by the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003”.

2003—[Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7) substituted “Architect of the Capitol may delegate to the assistants of the Architect such authority of the Architect as the Architect may determine proper, except those authorities, duties, and responsibilities specifically assigned to the Deputy Architect of the Capitol by the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003” for “Architect of the Capitol is authorized on and after August 5, 1955, to delegate to the Assistant Architect and other assistants such authority of the Architect as he may deem proper”.
