---
title: "§ 1645a. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1645a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1645a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54](/us/act/1950-03-10/ch54), title VII, § 702, as added [Pub. L. 96–606](/us/pl/96/606), Dec. 28, 1980, [94 Stat. 3534](/us/stat/94/3534).)"
---
# § 1645a. Definitions

##### § 1645a. Definitions

(1) the term “National of the United States” means—

(A) a natural person who is a citizen of the United States; and

(B) a corporation or other legal entity which is organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, if natural persons who are citizens of the United States own, directly or indirectly, 50 per centum or more of the outstanding capital stock or other beneficial interest of such corporation or entity;

(2) the term “Commission” means the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States;

(3) the term “property” means—

(A) any property, right, or interest, including any leasehold interest,

(B) any debt owed by Vietnam or by any enterprise which has been nationalized, expropriated, or otherwise taken by Vietnam, and

(C) any debt which is a charge on property which has been nationalized, expropriated, or otherwise taken by Vietnam;

(4) the term “Vietnam” means—

(A) the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam,

(B) any predecessor governing authority operating in South Vietnam on or after April 29, 1975, including the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam,

(C) the Government of the former Democratic Republic of Vietnam, and

(D) any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of any of the entities referred to in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C); and

(5) the term “Claims Fund” means the special fund established in the Treasury of the United States composed of such sums as may be paid to or realized by the United States pursuant to the terms of any agreement settling those claims described in [section 1645b of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1645b) that may be entered into between the Governments of the United States and Vietnam.

*([Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54](/us/act/1950-03-10/ch54), title VII, § 702, as added [Pub. L. 96–606](/us/pl/96/606), Dec. 28, 1980, [94 Stat. 3534](/us/stat/94/3534).)*
