---
title: "§ 300ff–135. Notification of employee"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300ff–135"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300ff–135"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2695D, as added [Pub. L. 111–87, § 13](/us/pl/111/87/s13), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2901](/us/stat/123/2901).)"
---
# § 300ff–135. Notification of employee

##### § 300ff–135. Notification of employee

(a) In general After receiving a notification for purposes of section 300ff–132 or 300ff–133(d)(2) of this title, a designated officer of emergency response employees shall, to the extent practicable, immediately notify each of such employees who—

(1) responded to the emergency involved; and

(2) as indicated by guidelines developed by the Secretary, may have been exposed to an infectious disease.

(b) Certain contents of notification to employee A notification under this subsection to an emergency response employee shall inform the employee of—

(1) the fact that the employee may have been exposed to an infectious disease and the name of the disease involved;

(2) any action by the employee that, as indicated by guidelines developed by the Secretary, is medically appropriate; and

(3) if medically appropriate under such criteria, the date of such emergency.

(c) Responses other than notification of exposure After receiving a response under paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection (d) of [section 300ff–133 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–133), or a response under subsection (g)(1) of such section, the designated officer for the employee shall, to the extent practicable, immediately inform the employee of the response.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2695D, as added [Pub. L. 111–87, § 13](/us/pl/111/87/s13), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2901](/us/stat/123/2901).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as if enacted on Sept. 30, 2009, see [section 2(a)(3)(B) of Pub. L. 111–87](/us/pl/111/87/s2/a/3/B), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment; Revival of Section note under [section 300ff–11 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–11).
