---
title: "§ 2210e. Design basis threat rulemaking"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2210e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2210e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 170E, as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title VI, § 651(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/58/tVI/s651/a/1), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 799](/us/stat/119/799).)"
---
# § 2210e. Design basis threat rulemaking

##### § 2210e. Design basis threat rulemaking

(a) Rulemaking The Commission shall—

(1) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this section, initiate a rulemaking proceeding, including notice and opportunity for public comment, to be completed not later than 18 months after that date, to revise the design basis threats of the Commission; or

(2) not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this section, complete any ongoing rulemaking to revise the design basis threats.

(b) Factors When conducting its rulemaking, the Commission shall consider the following, but not be limited to—

(1) the events of September 11, 2001;

(2) an assessment of physical, cyber, biochemical, and other terrorist threats;

(3) the potential for attack on facilities by multiple coordinated teams of a large number of individuals;

(4) the potential for assistance in an attack from several persons employed at the facility;

(5) the potential for suicide attacks;

(6) the potential for water-based and air-based threats;

(7) the potential use of explosive devices of considerable size and other modern weaponry;

(8) the potential for attacks by persons with a sophisticated knowledge of facility operations;

(9) the potential for fires, especially fires of long duration;

(10) the potential for attacks on spent fuel shipments by multiple coordinated teams of a large number of individuals;

(11) the adequacy of planning to protect the public health and safety at and around nuclear facilities, as appropriate, in the event of a terrorist attack against a nuclear facility; and

(12) the potential for theft and diversion of nuclear materials from such facilities.

*([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 170E, as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title VI, § 651(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/58/tVI/s651/a/1), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 799](/us/stat/119/799).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58), which was approved August 8, 2005.
