---
title: "§ 1712. Disqualification from benefits"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1712"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1712"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Dec. 2, 1942, ch. 668](/us/act/1942-12-02/ch668), title II, § 202, [56 Stat. 1034](/us/stat/56/1034).)"
---
# § 1712. Disqualification from benefits

##### § 1712. Disqualification from benefits

No person convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any subversive act against the United States or any of its Allies, committed after the declaration by the President on May 27, 1941, of the national emergency, shall be entitled to compensation or other benefits under subchapter I, nor shall any compensation be payable with respect to his death or detention under said subchapter, and upon indictment or the filing of an information charging the commission of any such subversive act, all such compensation or other benefits shall be suspended and remain suspended until acquittal or withdrawal of such charge, but upon conviction thereof or upon death occurring prior to a final disposition thereof, all such payments and all benefits under said subchapter shall be forfeited and terminated. If the charge is withdrawn, or there is an acquittal, all such compensation withheld shall be paid to the person or persons entitled thereto.

*([Dec. 2, 1942, ch. 668](/us/act/1942-12-02/ch668), title II, § 202, [56 Stat. 1034](/us/stat/56/1034).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### National Emergency Declared on May 27, 1941

The national emergency declared by the President on May 27, 1941, by Proc. No. 2487, 6 F.R. 2617, [55 Stat. 1647](/us/stat/55/1647), was terminated April 28, 1952 by Proc. No. 2974, Apr. 30, 1952, 17 F.R. 3813, 66 Stat. c31, set out as a note preceding [section 1 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s1), War and National Defense.
