---
title: "§ 8676b. Vessels stricken from Naval Vessel Register: transfer by gift or otherwise for use as artificial reefs"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8676b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8676b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, § 1013(a)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tX/s1013/a), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1590](/us/stat/117/1590), § 7306b; amended [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title X, § 1071(a)(36)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tX/s1071/a/36), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2400](/us/stat/120/2400); [Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title X, § 1073(a)(31)](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tX/s1073/a/31), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2474](/us/stat/123/2474); renumbered § 8676b, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(2)](/us/pl"
---
# § 8676b. Vessels stricken from Naval Vessel Register: transfer by gift or otherwise for use as artificial reefs

##### § 8676b. Vessels stricken from Naval Vessel Register: transfer by gift or otherwise for use as artificial reefs

(a) Authority To Make Transfer.— The Secretary of the Navy may transfer, by gift or otherwise, any vessel stricken from the Naval Vessel Register to any State, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States, or any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof, for use as provided in subsection (b).

(b) Vessel To Be Used as Artificial Reef.— An agreement for the transfer of a vessel under subsection (a) shall require that—

(1) the recipient use, site, construct, monitor, and manage the vessel only as an artificial reef in accordance with the requirements of the National Fishing Enhancement Act of 1984 ([33 U.S.C. 2101](/us/usc/t33/s2101) et seq.), except that the recipient may use the artificial reef to enhance diving opportunities if that use does not have an adverse effect on fishery resources (as that term is defined in section 3(14) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act ([16 U.S.C. 1802(14)](/us/usc/t16/s1802/14))); and

(2) the recipient obtain, and bear all responsibility for complying with, applicable Federal, State, interstate, and local permits for using, siting, constructing, monitoring, and managing the vessel as an artificial reef.

(c) Preparation of Vessel for Use as Artificial Reef.— The Secretary shall ensure that the preparation of a vessel transferred under subsection (a) for use as an artificial reef is conducted in accordance with—

(1) the environmental best management practices developed pursuant to section 3504(b) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 ([Public Law 107–314](/us/pl/107/314); [16 U.S.C. 1220](/us/usc/t16/s1220) note); and

(2) any applicable environmental laws.

(d) Cost Sharing.— The Secretary may share with the recipient of a vessel transferred under subsection (a) any costs associated with transferring the vessel under that subsection, including costs of the preparation of the vessel under subsection (c).

(e) No Limitation on Number of Vessels Transferable to Particular Recipient.— A State, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States, or any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof, may be the recipient of more than one vessel transferred under subsection (a).

(f) Additional Terms and Conditions.— The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with a transfer authorized by subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(g) Construction.— Nothing in this section shall be construed to establish a preference for the use as artificial reefs of vessels stricken from the Naval Vessel Register in lieu of other authorized uses of such vessels, including the domestic scrapping of such vessels, or other disposals of such vessels, under this chapter or other applicable authority.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, § 1013(a)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tX/s1013/a), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1590](/us/stat/117/1590), § 7306b; amended [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title X, § 1071(a)(36)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tX/s1071/a/36), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2400](/us/stat/120/2400); [Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title X, § 1073(a)(31)](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tX/s1073/a/31), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2474](/us/stat/123/2474); renumbered § 8676b, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Fishing Enhancement Act of 1984, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is title II of [Pub. L. 98–623](/us/pl/98/623), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3394](/us/stat/98/3394), which enacted chapter 35 (§ 2101 et seq.) of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters, and [section 1220d of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1220d), Conservation, and amended sections 1220 to 1220c of Title 16. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2101 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s2101) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 7306b of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7306b) as this section.

2009—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 111–84](/us/pl/111/84) substituted “1802(14)))” for “1802(14))”.

2006—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 109–364](/us/pl/109/364) substituted “3(14)” for “2(14)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
