---
title: "§ 2797b–1. Notification of admittance of MTCR adherents"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2797b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2797b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), ch. 7, § 73A, as added [Pub. L. 103–236, title VII, § 735(d)](/us/pl/103/236/tVII/s735/d), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 506](/us/stat/108/506); amended [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. B, title XI, § 1136(d)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dB/tXI/s1136/d), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–496.)"
---
# § 2797b–1. Notification of admittance of MTCR adherents

##### § 2797b–1. Notification of admittance of MTCR adherents

(a) Policy report Following any action by the United States that results in a country becoming a MTCR adherent, the President shall transmit promptly to the Congress a report which describes the rationale for such action, together with an assessment of that country’s nonproliferation policies, practices, and commitments. Such report shall also include the text of any agreements or understandings between the United States and such country regarding the terms and conditions of the country’s adherence to the MTCR.

(b) Intelligence assessment report At such times that a report is transmitted pursuant to subsection (a), the Director of Central Intelligence shall promptly prepare and submit to the Congress a separate report containing any credible information indicating that the country described in subsection (a) has engaged in any activity identified under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of [section 2797b(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2797b/a/1) within the previous two years.

*([Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), ch. 7, § 73A, as added [Pub. L. 103–236, title VII, § 735(d)](/us/pl/103/236/tVII/s735/d), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 506](/us/stat/108/506); amended [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. B, title XI, § 1136(d)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dB/tXI/s1136/d), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–496.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1999—[Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence. Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. See section 1081(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458), set out as a note under [section 3001 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s3001), War and National Defense.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under this section delegated to Secretary of State by Memorandum of President of the United States, July 26, 1994, 59 F.R. 40205, set out as a note under [section 2370a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2370a).
