---
title: "§ 4931. Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4931"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4931"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–283, title I, § 4](/us/pl/103/283/tI/s4), July 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 1427](/us/stat/108/1427); [Pub. L. 104–53, title I, § 6](/us/pl/104/53/tI/s6), Nov. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 518](/us/stat/109/518).)"
---
# § 4931. Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund

##### § 4931. Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund

(a) Establishment There is established in the Treasury of the United States a revolving fund within the contingent fund of the Senate to be known as the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund (hereafter referred to in this section as the “fund”). The fund shall consist of all rental payments and other moneys collected or received by the Sergeant at Arms with regard to the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence. All moneys in the fund shall be available without fiscal year limitation for disbursement by the Secretary of the Senate in connection with operation and maintenance of the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence not normally performed by the Architect of the Capitol. In addition, such moneys may be used by the Sergeant at Arms to purchase food and food related items and fund activities for the pages.

(b) Deposit of moneys All moneys received from rental payments and other moneys (including donated moneys) collected or received by the Sergeant at Arms with regard to the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence shall be deposited in the fund and shall be available for purposes of this section.

(c) Vouchers Disbursements from the fund shall be made upon vouchers approved by the Sergeant at Arms, or the designee of the Sergeant at Arms.

(d) Regulations The Sergeant at Arms is authorized to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section and to provide for the operations of the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence.

*([Pub. L. 103–283, title I, § 4](/us/pl/103/283/tI/s4), July 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 1427](/us/stat/108/1427); [Pub. L. 104–53, title I, § 6](/us/pl/104/53/tI/s6), Nov. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 518](/us/stat/109/518).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 88b–7 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s88b–7) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1995, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1995.

#### Amendments

1995—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–53](/us/pl/104/53) inserted “(including donated moneys)” after “other moneys”.
