---
title: "§ 3109. Indian forest land assistance account"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3109"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3109"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–630, title III, § 310](/us/pl/101/630/tIII/s310), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4538](/us/stat/104/4538).)"
---
# § 3109. Indian forest land assistance account

##### § 3109. Indian forest land assistance account

(a) Establishment At the request of an Indian tribe, the Secretary may establish a special Indian forest land assistance account within the tribe’s trust fund account to fund the Indian forest land management activities of such tribe.

(b) Deposits and expenditures

(1) The Secretary may deposit into the Indian forest land assistance account established pursuant to subsection (a) any funds received by the Secretary or in the Secretary’s possession from—

Funds deposited in such account shall be for the purpose of conducting forest land management activities on the Indian forest lands of such tribe.

(A) non-Federal sources, if such funds are related to activities on or for the Indian forest lands of such tribe’s reservation,

(B) donations and contributions,

(C) unobligated forestry appropriations for the benefit of such Indian tribe, and

(D) user fees or other funds transferred under Federal interagency agreements if otherwise authorized by Federal law and, if such funds are related to activities on or for the Indian forest lands of such tribe’s reservation.

(2) Funds in the Indian forest land assistance account and any interest or other income earned thereon shall remain available until expended and shall not be available to otherwise offset Federal appropriations for meeting the Federal responsibility for management of Indian forest lands.

(c) Audits At the request of an Indian tribe or upon the Secretary’s own volition, the Secretary may conduct audits of the Indian forest land assistance account and shall publish the results of such audit.

*([Pub. L. 101–630, title III, § 310](/us/pl/101/630/tIII/s310), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4538](/us/stat/104/4538).)*
