---
title: "§ 3998. Land rights of servicemembers"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3998"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3998"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title V, § 508, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2857](/us/stat/117/2857); amended [Pub. L. 111–97, § 4(a)](/us/pl/111/97/s4/a), Nov. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 3008](/us/stat/123/3008).)"
---
# § 3998. Land rights of servicemembers

##### § 3998. Land rights of servicemembers

(a) No age limitations Any servicemember under the age of 21 in military service shall be entitled to the same rights under the laws relating to lands owned or controlled by the United States, including mining and mineral leasing laws, as those servicemembers who are 21 years of age.

(b) Residency requirement Any requirement related to the establishment of a residence within a limited time shall be suspended as to entry by a servicemember in military service or the spouse of such servicemember until 180 days after termination of or release from military service.

(c) Entry applications Applications for entry may be verified before a person authorized to administer oaths under [section 1044a of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1044a) or under the laws of the State where the land is situated.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title V, § 508, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2857](/us/stat/117/2857); amended [Pub. L. 111–97, § 4(a)](/us/pl/111/97/s4/a), Nov. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 3008](/us/stat/123/3008).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 568 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 508 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. V, [54 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/54/1189), related to irrigation rights and suspension of residence requirements, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189).

#### Amendments

2009—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–97](/us/pl/111/97) inserted “or the spouse of such servicemember” after “a servicemember in military service”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–97, § 4(b)](/us/pl/111/97/s4/b), Nov. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 3008](/us/stat/123/3008), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to servicemembers in military service (as defined in section 101 of such Act (50 U.S.C. App. 511) [now [50 U.S.C. 3911](/us/usc/t50/s3911)]) on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 11, 2009].”

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
