---
title: "§ 5506. Tax exemption for conveyed lands and gross receipts; distribution of gross receipts to tribal members"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5506"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5506"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–114, § 6](/us/pl/94/114/s6), Oct. 17, 1975, [89 Stat. 579](/us/stat/89/579).)"
---
# § 5506. Tax exemption for conveyed lands and gross receipts; distribution of gross receipts to tribal members

##### § 5506. Tax exemption for conveyed lands and gross receipts; distribution of gross receipts to tribal members

All property conveyed to tribes pursuant to this chapter and all the receipts therefrom referred to in [section 5505 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5505), shall be exempt from Federal, State, and local taxation so long as such property is held in trust by the United States. Any distribution of such receipts to tribal members shall neither be considered as income or resources of such members for purposes of any such taxation nor as income, resources, or otherwise utilized as the basis for denying or reducing the financial assistance or other benefits to which such member or his household would otherwise be entitled to under the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 301](/us/usc/t42/s301) et seq.] or any other Federal or federally assisted program.

*([Pub. L. 94–114, § 6](/us/pl/94/114/s6), Oct. 17, 1975, [89 Stat. 579](/us/stat/89/579).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620), which is classified generally to chapter 7 (§ 301 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 459e of this title](/us/usc/t25/s459e) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
