---
title: "§ 283j–1. Audit"
identifier: "USC-T22-S283j–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section283j–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–147, § 14](/us/pl/86/147/s14), as added [Pub. L. 90–88, § 1](/us/pl/90/88/s1), Sept. 22, 1967, [81 Stat. 227](/us/stat/81/227); amended [Pub. L. 104–316, title I, § 111(b)](/us/pl/104/316/tI/s111/b), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3833](/us/stat/110/3833).)"
---
# § 283j–1. Audit

##### § 283j–1. Audit

(a) Establishment The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director to propose the establishment by the Board of Executive Directors of a program of selective but continuing independent and comprehensive audit of the Inter-American Development Bank, in accordance with such terms of reference as the Board of Executive Directors itself (or through a subcommittee), may prescribe. Such proposal shall provide that the audit reports be submitted to the Board of Executive Directors and to the Board of Governors.

(b) Scope and standards The Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare the scope of the audit and the auditing and reporting standards for the use of the United States Executive Director in assisting in the formulation of the terms of reference.

(c) Reports The reports of the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies to the Congress shall include, among other things, an appraisal of the effectiveness of the implementation and administration of the loans made by the Bank based upon the audit reports. The Comptroller General may review the reports of audit and findings issued and report to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Congress any suggestions he might have in improving the scope of the audit or auditing and reporting standards of the independent auditing firm, group, or staff.

*([Pub. L. 86–147, § 14](/us/pl/86/147/s14), as added [Pub. L. 90–88, § 1](/us/pl/90/88/s1), Sept. 22, 1967, [81 Stat. 227](/us/stat/81/227); amended [Pub. L. 104–316, title I, § 111(b)](/us/pl/104/316/tI/s111/b), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3833](/us/stat/110/3833).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–316](/us/pl/104/316) substituted “Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare” for “Comptroller General of the United States shall prepare for the Secretary of the Treasury”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 104–316](/us/pl/104/316) substituted “may review” for “shall periodically review” in second sentence.
