---
title: "§ 1720a. Applicability of civil and criminal penalties to various uses of Federal or Indian lands and Outer Continental Shelf"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1720a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1720a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–88, div. A, title I, § 114](/us/pl/111/88/dA/tI/s114), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2928](/us/stat/123/2928).)"
---
# § 1720a. Applicability of civil and criminal penalties to various uses of Federal or Indian lands and Outer Continental Shelf

##### § 1720a. Applicability of civil and criminal penalties to various uses of Federal or Indian lands and Outer Continental Shelf

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, Sections 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. 1719 and 1720 22 See References in Text note below. of this title shall, for fiscal year 2010 and each fiscal year thereafter, apply to any lease authorizing exploration for or development of coal, any other solid mineral, or any geothermal resource on any Federal or Indian lands and any lease, easement, right of way, or other agreement, regardless of form, for use of the Outer Continental Shelf or any of its resources under sections 1337(k) and 1337(p) of title 43 to the same extent as if such lease, easement, right of way, or other agreement, regardless of form, were an oil and gas lease, except that in such cases the term “royalty payment” shall include any payment required by such lease, easement, right of way or other agreement, regardless of form, or by applicable regulation.

*([Pub. L. 111–88, div. A, title I, § 114](/us/pl/111/88/dA/tI/s114), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2928](/us/stat/123/2928).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 1719 and 1720 of this title, referred to in text, was in the original “Sections 109 and 110 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act” and was translated as meaning sections 109 and 110 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, and not as part of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 which comprises this chapter.
