---
title: "§ 5316. Annual budget submission"
identifier: "USC-T7-S5316"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section5316"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–445, title I, § 106](/us/pl/101/445/tI/s106), Oct. 22, 1990, [104 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/104/1040).)"
---
# § 5316. Annual budget submission

##### § 5316. Annual budget submission

(a) Annual report The President, at the same time as the submission of the annual budget to the Congress, shall submit a report to the Committees on Agriculture and Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and to the Committees on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and Governmental Affairs of the Senate on expenditures required for carrying out the coordinated program and implementing the comprehensive plan. The report shall detail, for each of the agencies that are allocated responsibilities under the coordinated program—

(1) the amounts spent on the coordinated program during the fiscal year most recently ended;

(2) the amounts expected to be spent during the current fiscal year; and

(3) the amounts requested in the annual budget for the fiscal year for which the budget is being submitted.

(b) Existing authority not affected Nothing in this subchapter is intended to either—

(1) authorize the appropriation or require the expenditure of any funds in excess of the amount of funds that would be authorized or expended for the same purposes in the absence of the coordinated program; or

(2) limit the authority of any of the participating agencies to request and receive funds for such purposes (for use in the coordinated program) under other laws.

*([Pub. L. 101–445, title I, § 106](/us/pl/101/445/tI/s106), Oct. 22, 1990, [104 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/104/1040).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Governmental Affairs of Senate changed to Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of Senate, effective Jan. 4, 2005, by Senate Resolution No. 445, One Hundred Eighth Congress, Oct. 9, 2004.

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which the report required by subsec. (a) of this section is listed on page 31), see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, and section 1(a)(4) [div. A, § 1402] of [Pub. L. 106–554](/us/pl/106/554), set out as notes under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance.
