---
title: "§ 247b–14a. Identification of interventions that reduce the burden and transmission of oral, dental, and craniofacial diseases in high risk populations; development of approaches for pediatric oral and craniofacial assessment"
identifier: "USC-T42-S247b–14a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section247b–14a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title XVI, § 1601](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tXVI/s1601), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/114/1148).)"
---
# § 247b–14a. Identification of interventions that reduce the burden and transmission of oral, dental, and craniofacial diseases in high risk populations; development of approaches for pediatric oral and craniofacial assessment

##### § 247b–14a. Identification of interventions that reduce the burden and transmission of oral, dental, and craniofacial diseases in high risk populations; development of approaches for pediatric oral and craniofacial assessment

(a) In general The Secretary of Health and Human Services, through the Maternal and Child Health Bureau, the Indian Health Service, and in consultation with the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall—

(1) support community-based research that is designed to improve understanding of the etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of pediatric oral, dental, craniofacial diseases and conditions and their sequelae in high risk populations;

(2) support demonstrations of preventive interventions in high risk populations including nutrition, parenting, and feeding techniques; and

(3) develop clinical approaches to assess individual patients for the risk of pediatric dental disease.

(b) Compliance with State practice laws Treatment and other services shall be provided pursuant to this section by licensed dental health professionals in accordance with State practice and licensing laws.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section for each 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “of”. the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.

*([Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title XVI, § 1601](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tXVI/s1601), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/114/1148).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Children’s Health Act of 2000, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
