---
title: "§ 1596. Penalties"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1596"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1596"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Aug. 9, 1939, ch. 615](/us/act/1939-08-09/ch615), title IV, § 406, [53 Stat. 1286](/us/stat/53/1286); [July 9, 1956, ch. 520, § 1](/us/act/1956-07-09/ch520/s1), [70 Stat. 508](/us/stat/70/508).)"
---
# § 1596. Penalties

##### § 1596. Penalties

(a) Any person who knowingly, or as a result either of gross negligence or of a failure to make a reasonable effort to inform himself of the pertinent facts, violates any provision of this chapter or the rules and regulations made and promulgated thereunder shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall pay a fine of not more than $1,000, for the first offense, and upon conviction for each subsequent offense not more than $2,000.

(b) Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or the rules and regulations made and promulgated thereunder shall forfeit to the United States a sum, not less than $25 or more than $500, for each such violation, which forfeiture shall be recoverable in a civil suit brought in the name of the United States.

*([Aug. 9, 1939, ch. 615](/us/act/1939-08-09/ch615), title IV, § 406, [53 Stat. 1286](/us/stat/53/1286); [July 9, 1956, ch. 520, § 1](/us/act/1956-07-09/ch520/s1), [70 Stat. 508](/us/stat/70/508).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1956—Act July 9, 1956, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted “knowingly or as a result either of gross negligence or of a failure to make a reasonable effort to inform himself of the pertinent facts,” and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1956 Amendment

[Act July 9, 1956, ch. 520, § 4](/us/act/1956-07-09/ch520/s4), [70 Stat. 508](/us/stat/70/508), provided that: “The amendments made by this Act [amending sections 1574, 1596, and 1602 of this title] shall be applicable only with respect to violations occurring after the enactment of this Act [July 9, 1956].”

#### Effective Date

See [section 1610 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1610).
