---
title: "§ 1701z–3. Experimental housing allowance payment program"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701z–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701z–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–609, title V, § 504](/us/pl/91/609/tV/s504), Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1786](/us/stat/84/1786); [Pub. L. 93–383, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/93/383/tVIII/s804), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 725](/us/stat/88/725); [Pub. L. 94–375, § 23(b)](/us/pl/94/375/s23/b), Aug. 3, 1976, [90 Stat. 1078](/us/stat/90/1078); [Pub. L. 98–35, § 6(a)](/us/pl/98/35/s6/a), May 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 198](/us/stat/97/198).)"
---
# § 1701z–3. Experimental housing allowance payment program

##### § 1701z–3. Experimental housing allowance payment program

(a) Purpose of payments The Secretary is authorized to undertake on an experimental basis programs to demonstrate the feasibility of providing housing allowance payments to assist families in meeting rental or homeownership expenses.

(b) Termination date of payments; termination date for contracts; contracts for performance of administrative functions

(1) No housing allowance payments shall be made after July 1, 1985. After January 1, 1975, the Secretary shall not enter into contracts under the United States Housing Act of 1937 [[42 U.S.C. 1437](/us/usc/t42/s1437) et seq.] to carry out the purposes of this section. The Secretary may contract with public or private agencies for the performance of administrative functions in connection with the programs authorized by this section.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, to the extent approved in appropriation Acts, extend the annual contributions contracts for the experimental housing allowance supply program through September 30, 1989, on the same terms and conditions as the original contracts, for the sole purpose of providing assistance for homeowners participating in such program on June 1, 1983. In extending such contracts, the Secretary may, to the extent approved in appropriation Acts, use authority available under section 5(c) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [[42 U.S.C. 1437c(c)](/us/usc/t42/s1437c/c)].

(c) Report to Congress The Secretary shall report to the Congress on his findings pursuant to this section not later than eighteen months after August 22, 1974.

*([Pub. L. 91–609, title V, § 504](/us/pl/91/609/tV/s504), Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1786](/us/stat/84/1786); [Pub. L. 93–383, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/93/383/tVIII/s804), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 725](/us/stat/88/725); [Pub. L. 94–375, § 23(b)](/us/pl/94/375/s23/b), Aug. 3, 1976, [90 Stat. 1078](/us/stat/90/1078); [Pub. L. 98–35, § 6(a)](/us/pl/98/35/s6/a), May 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 198](/us/stat/97/198).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The United States Housing Act of 1937, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is [act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896](/us/act/1937-09-01/ch896), as revised generally by [Pub. L. 93–383, title II](/us/pl/93/383/tII), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 653](/us/stat/88/653), which is classified to chapter 8 (§ 1437 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1437 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1437) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1983—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–35](/us/pl/98/35) designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

1976—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–375](/us/pl/94/375) struck out provisions which authorized the Secretary to make or contract to make housing allowance payments, authorized sums to be appropriated as necessary, including sums for contract payments and administrative costs, and limited the aggregate amount of contracts for making housing allowance payments.

1974—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383) substituted provisions authorizing the Secretary to undertake programs on an experimental basis of housing allowance payments to assist families in meeting rental or homeownership expenses, for provisions authorizing the Secretary in carrying out activities under [section 1701z–1 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701z–1) to undertake programs on an experimental basis of housing allowances to assist families of low income to obtain rental housing of their choice in existing units.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383) substituted provisions relating to the authority of the Secretary to make or contract to make payments to or on behalf of participating families, authorizing appropriations, and setting forth limits on the contracting power of the Secretary, for provisions setting forth limitations on the amount of family allowances and conditioning payment of such allowances.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383) substituted provisions requiring the Secretary to report to Congress not later than 18 months after Aug. 22, 1974, for provisions setting forth the contracting authority of the Secretary for services.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383) struck out subsec. (d) which set forth limits on aggregate family allowances and authorizing appropriations to make payments.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383) struck out subsec. (e) which required a report to Congress by the Secretary as soon as practicable in calendar years 1972 and 1973.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383) struck out subsec. (f) which defined “families of low income” and “existing standard housing”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383) struck out subsec. (g) which prohibited payments after June 30, 1973.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1983 Amendment

[Pub. L. 98–35, § 6(b)](/us/pl/98/35/s6/b), May 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 199](/us/stat/97/199), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall become effective on October 1, 1983.”
