---
title: "§ 8483. Trail pilot program"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8483"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8483"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title II, § 213](/us/pl/118/234/tII/s213), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2882](/us/stat/138/2882).)"
---
# § 8483. Trail pilot program

##### § 8483. Trail pilot program

(a) In general Not later than 2 years after January 4, 2025, the Secretary concerned shall carry out a pilot program to enter into partnerships with eligible entities to—

(1) measure high-priority trails as part of the assessment required under [section 8482 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8482);

(2) develop accessible trails under [section 8484 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8484); and

(3) make minor modifications to existing trails to enhance recreational experiences for individuals with disabilities using assistive technology—

(A) in compliance with all applicable land use and management plans of the Federal recreational lands and waters on which the accessible trail is located; and

(B) in consultation with stakeholders, including veterans organizations and organizations with expertise or experience providing outdoor recreation opportunities to individuals with disabilities.

(b) Locations

(1) In general The Secretary concerned shall select no fewer than 5 units or subunits under the jurisdiction of the respective Secretary concerned to carry out the pilot program established under subsection (a).

(2) Special rule of construction for the Department of the Interior In selecting the locations of the pilot program, the Secretary shall ensure that the pilot program is carried out in at least one unit managed by the—

(A) National Park Service;

(B) Bureau of Land Management; and

(C) United States Fish and Wildlife Service.

(c) Sunset The pilot program established under this subsection 11 So in original. Probably should be “this section”. shall terminate on the date that is 7 years after January 4, 2025.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title II, § 213](/us/pl/118/234/tII/s213), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2882](/us/stat/138/2882).)*
