---
title: "§ 2709. Termination or suspension of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2709"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2709"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–428, § 10](/us/pl/93/428/s10), Oct. 1, 1974, [88 Stat. 1176](/us/stat/88/1176).)"
---
# § 2709. Termination or suspension of orders

##### § 2709. Termination or suspension of orders

(a) Authority of Secretary The Secretary shall, whenever he finds that any order issued under this chapter, or any provisions thereof, obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of this chapter, terminate or suspend the operation of such order or such provisions thereof.

(b) Referendum to terminate or suspend; eligible voters; requirements for approval; termination or suspension date The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time, and shall hold a referendum on request of 10 per centum or more of the number of egg producers voting in the referendum approving the order, to determine whether such producers favor the termination or suspension of the order, and he shall suspend or terminate such order six months after he determines that suspension or termination of the order is approved or favored by a majority of the egg producers voting in such referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production of commercial eggs, and who produced more than 50 per centum of the volume of eggs produced by the egg producers voting in the referendum.

(c) Termination or suspension not to be considered as order The termination or suspension of any order, or any provision thereof, shall not be considered an order within the meaning of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 93–428, § 10](/us/pl/93/428/s10), Oct. 1, 1974, [88 Stat. 1176](/us/stat/88/1176).)*
