---
title: "§ 971. Agreements to indemnify against loss or damage"
identifier: "USC-T20-S971"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section971"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–158, § 2](/us/pl/94/158/s2), Dec. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 844](/us/stat/89/844); [Pub. L. 99–194, title III, § 301](/us/pl/99/194/tIII/s301), Dec. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 1345](/us/stat/99/1345).)"
---
# § 971. Agreements to indemnify against loss or damage

##### § 971. Agreements to indemnify against loss or damage

(a) Authorization of Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities The Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the “Council”), established under [section 958 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s958), is authorized to make agreements to indemnify against loss or damage such items as may be eligible for such indemnity agreements under [section 972 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s972)—

(1) in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and

(2) on such terms and conditions as the Council shall prescribe, by regulation, in order to achieve the purposes of this chapter and, consistent with such purposes, to protect the financial interest of the United States.

(b) Council as “agency”

(1) For purposes of this chapter, the Council shall be an “agency” within the meaning of the appropriate definitions of such term in title 5.

(2) For purposes of this chapter, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Director of the National Gallery of Art, the member designated by the Chairman of the Senate Commission of Art and Antiquities and the member designated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall not serve as members of the Council.

*([Pub. L. 94–158, § 2](/us/pl/94/158/s2), Dec. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 844](/us/stat/89/844); [Pub. L. 99–194, title III, § 301](/us/pl/99/194/tIII/s301), Dec. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 1345](/us/stat/99/1345).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1985—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–194](/us/pl/99/194) designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 94–158, § 9](/us/pl/94/158/s9), Dec. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 846](/us/stat/89/846), provided that: “This Act [see Short Title note below] shall become effective 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 20, 1975].”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 94–158, § 1](/us/pl/94/158/s1), Dec. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 844](/us/stat/89/844), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter and provisions set out as a note under this section] may be cited as the ‘Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act’.”
