---
title: "§ 7809. Deposit of collections"
identifier: "USC-T26-S7809"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section7809"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 918](/us/stat/68A/918); [Pub. L. 87–870, § 3(b)](/us/pl/87/870/s3/b), Oct. 23, 1962, [76 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/76/1161); [Pub. L. 89–719, title I, § 112(b)](/us/pl/89/719/tI/s112/b), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1146](/us/stat/80/1146); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XII, § 1202(h)(5)](/us/pl/94/455/tXII/s1202/h/5), title XIX, §§ 1906(a)(59), (b)(13)(A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/90/1688), 1833, 1834; [Pub. L. 94–528, § 2(d)](/us/pl/"
---
# § 7809. Deposit of collections

##### § 7809. Deposit of collections

(a) General rule Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) and in sections 6306, 7651, 7652, 7654, and 7810, the gross amount of all taxes and revenues received under the provisions of this title, and collections of whatever nature received or collected by authority of any internal revenue law, shall be paid daily into the Treasury of the United States under instructions of the Secretary as internal revenue collections, by the officer or employee receiving or collecting the same, without any abatement or deduction on account of salary, compensation, fees, costs, charges, expenses, or claims of any description. A certificate of such payment, stating the name of the depositor and the specific account on which the deposit was made, signed by the Treasurer of the United States, designated depositary, or proper officer of a deposit bank, shall be transmitted to the Secretary.

(b) Deposit funds In accordance with instructions of the Secretary, there shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States in a deposit fund account—

Upon the acceptance of such offer in compromise or offer for the purchase of such real estate, the amount so accepted shall be withdrawn from such deposit fund account and deposited in the Treasury of the United States as internal revenue collections. Upon the rejection of any such offer, the Secretary shall refund to the maker of such offer the amount thereof.

(1) Sums offered in compromise Sums offered in compromise under the provisions of section 7122;

(2) Sums offered for purchase of real estate Sums offered for the purchase of real estate under the provisions of section 7506;

(3) Surplus proceeds in sales under levy Surplus proceeds in any sale under levy, after making allowance for the amount of the tax, interest, penalties, and additions thereto, and for costs and charges of the levy and sale; and

(4) Surplus proceeds in sales of redeemed property Surplus proceeds in any sale under section 7506 of real property redeemed by the United States, after making allowance for the amount of the tax, interest, penalties, and additions thereto, and for the costs of sale.

(c) Deposit of certain receipts Moneys received in payment for—

shall be deposited in a separate account which may be used to reimburse appropriations which bore all or part of the costs of such work or services, or to refund excess sums when necessary.

(1) work or services performed pursuant to section 6103(p) (relating to furnishing of copies of returns or of return information), and section 6108(b) (relating to special statistical studies and compilations);

(2) work or services performed (including materials supplied) pursuant to section 7516 (relating to the supplying of training and training aids on request);

(3) other work or services performed for a State or a department or agency of the Federal Government (subject to all provisions of law and regulations governing disclosure of information) in supplying copies of, or data from, returns, statements, or other documents filed under authority of this title or records maintained in connection with the administration and enforcement of this title; and

(4) work or services performed (including materials supplied) pursuant to section 6110 (relating to public inspection of written determinations),

(d) Deposit of funds for law enforcement agency account

(1) In general In the case of any amounts recovered as the result of information provided to the Internal Revenue Service by State and local law enforcement agencies which substantially contributed to such recovery, an amount equal to 10 percent of such amounts shall be deposited in a separate account which shall be used to make the reimbursements required under section 7624.

(2) Deposit in Treasury as internal revenue collections If any amounts remain in such account after payment of any qualified costs incurred under section 7624, such amounts shall be withdrawn from such account and deposited in the Treasury of the United States as internal revenue collections.

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 918](/us/stat/68A/918); [Pub. L. 87–870, § 3(b)](/us/pl/87/870/s3/b), Oct. 23, 1962, [76 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/76/1161); [Pub. L. 89–719, title I, § 112(b)](/us/pl/89/719/tI/s112/b), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1146](/us/stat/80/1146); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XII, § 1202(h)(5)](/us/pl/94/455/tXII/s1202/h/5), title XIX, §§ 1906(a)(59), (b)(13)(A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/90/1688), 1833, 1834; [Pub. L. 94–528, § 2(d)](/us/pl/94/528/s2/d), Oct. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 2483](/us/stat/90/2483); [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7602(b)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7602/b), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4507](/us/stat/102/4507); [Pub. L. 108–357, title VIII, § 881(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/108/357/tVIII/s881/a/2/A), Oct. 22, 2004, [118 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/118/1626); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. U, title IV, § 401(a)(334)](/us/pl/115/141/dU/tIV/s401/a/334), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1200](/us/stat/132/1200).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–141](/us/pl/115/141) substituted “work” for “Work”.

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–357](/us/pl/108/357) inserted “6306,” before “7651”.

1988—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) added subsec. (d).

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 1906(a)(59)](/us/pl/94/455/s1906/a/59), (b)(13)(A), struck out “4735, 4762” after “and in sections”, and “or his delegate” after “Secretary” in two places.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/s1906/b/13/A), struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 1202(h)(5)](/us/pl/94/455/s1202/h/5), substituted “section 6103(p) (relating to furnishing of copies of returns or of return information), and section 6108(b) (relating to special statistical studies and compilations)” for “section 7515 (relating to special statistical studies and compilations for other services on request)” after “performed pursuant to”.

Subsec. (c)(4). [Pub. L. 94–528](/us/pl/94/528) added par. (4).

1966—Subsecs. (a), (b)(4). [Pub. L. 89–719](/us/pl/89/719) inserted reference to section 7810 in subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b)(4).

1962—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 87–870, § 3(b)(1)](/us/pl/87/870/s3/b/1), substituted “subsections (b) and (c) and in” for “subsection (b),”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 87–870, § 3(b)(2)](/us/pl/87/870/s3/b/2), added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) applicable to information first provided more than 90 days after Nov. 18, 1988, see [section 7602(e) of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s7602/e), set out as a note under [section 6103 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s6103).

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendments

[Pub. L. 94–528, § 2(e)](/us/pl/94/528/s2/e), Oct. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 2484](/us/stat/90/2484), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and provisions set out as notes under sections 6334, 6851, and 7609 of this title] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 [Oct. 4, 1976].”

Amendment by [section 1202(h)(5) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s1202/h/5) effective Jan. 1, 1977, see [section 1202(i) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s1202/i), set out as a note under [section 6103 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s6103).

#### Effective Date of 1966 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 89–719](/us/pl/89/719) applicable after Nov. 2, 1966, regardless of when title or lien of United States arose or when lien or interest of another person was acquired, with certain exceptions, see section 114(a)–(c) of [Pub. L. 89–719](/us/pl/89/719), set out as a note under [section 6323 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s6323).

#### Authorization of Appropriations

[Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7602(f)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7602/f), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4508](/us/stat/102/4508), provided that: “There is authorized to be appropriated from the account referred to in section 7809(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 such sums as may be necessary to make the payments authorized by section 7624 of such Code.”
