---
title: "§ 20158. Railroad safety technology grants"
identifier: "USC-T49-S20158"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section20158"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. A, title I, § 105(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dA/tI/s105/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4858](/us/stat/122/4858).)"
---
# § 20158. Railroad safety technology grants

##### § 20158. Railroad safety technology grants

(a) Grant Program.— The Secretary of Transportation shall establish a grant program for the deployment of train control technologies, train control component technologies, processor-based technologies, electronically controlled pneumatic brakes, rail integrity inspection systems, rail integrity warning systems, switch position indicators and monitors, remote control power switch technologies, track integrity circuit technologies, and other new or novel railroad safety technology.

(b) Grant Criteria.—

(1) Eligibility.— Grants shall be made under this section to eligible passenger and freight railroad carriers, railroad suppliers, and State and local governments for projects described in subsection (a) that have a public benefit of improved safety and network efficiency.

(2) Considerations.— Priority shall be given to projects that—

(A) focus on making technologies interoperable between railroad systems, such as train control technologies;

(B) accelerate train control technology deployment on high-risk corridors, such as those that have high volumes of hazardous materials shipments or over which commuter or passenger trains operate; or

(C) benefit both passenger and freight safety and efficiency.

(3) Implementation plans.— Grants may not be awarded under this section to entities that fail to develop and submit to the Secretary the plans required by sections 20156(e)(2) and 20157.

(4) Matching requirements.— Federal funds for any eligible project under this section shall not exceed 80 percent of the total cost of such project.

(c) Authorization of Appropriations.— There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013 to carry out this section. Amounts appropriated pursuant to this section shall remain available until expended.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. A, title I, § 105(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dA/tI/s105/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4858](/us/stat/122/4858).)*
