---
title: "§ 4302. Maximum annual rate of compensation of Chief of Staff of Joint Committee on Taxation"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–206, title II, § 214(e)](/us/pl/90/206/tII/s214/e), Dec. 16, 1967, [81 Stat. 636](/us/stat/81/636); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 2(a)](/us/pl/103/437/s2/a), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4581](/us/stat/108/4581); [Pub. L. 116–94, div. E, title II, § 212(b)(4)](/us/pl/116/94/dE/tII/s212/b/4), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2778](/us/stat/133/2778).)"
---
# § 4302. Maximum annual rate of compensation of Chief of Staff of Joint Committee on Taxation

##### § 4302. Maximum annual rate of compensation of Chief of Staff of Joint Committee on Taxation

The maximum annual rate of compensation of the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation shall not exceed the greater of $173,900 or the rate of pay in effect for such position under an order issued by the Speaker of the House of Representatives pursuant to the authority of [section 4532 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4532).

*([Pub. L. 90–206, title II, § 214(e)](/us/pl/90/206/tII/s214/e), Dec. 16, 1967, [81 Stat. 636](/us/stat/81/636); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 2(a)](/us/pl/103/437/s2/a), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4581](/us/stat/108/4581); [Pub. L. 116–94, div. E, title II, § 212(b)(4)](/us/pl/116/94/dE/tII/s212/b/4), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2778](/us/stat/133/2778).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 74a–2 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s74a–2) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2019—[Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94) substituted “The maximum annual rate of compensation of the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation shall not exceed the greater of $173,900 or the rate of pay in effect for such position under an order issued by the Speaker of the House of Representatives pursuant to the authority of [section 4532 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4532).” for “The per annum rate of compensation of the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation shall be the same as the per annum rate of compensation of the Legislative Counsel of the House of Representatives.”

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Joint Committee on Taxation” for “Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94) effective on the later of the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after Jan. 1, 2020, or the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after Dec. 20, 2019, see [section 212(c) of Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94/s212/c), set out as a note under [section 282b of this title](/us/usc/t2/s282b).

#### Effective Date

Section effective as of beginning of first pay period which begins on or after Oct. 1, 1967, see [section 220(a)(2) of Pub. L. 90–206](/us/pl/90/206/s220/a/2), set out as an Effective Date of 1967 Amendment note under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Cross References

Compensation of Legislative Counsel of House of Representatives, see [section 282b of this title](/us/usc/t2/s282b).
