---
title: "§ 146. General powers of corporation"
identifier: "USC-T15-S146"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section146"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Sept. 19, 1922, ch. 346, § 6](/us/act/1922-09-19/ch346/s6), [42 Stat. 851](/us/stat/42/851); [Feb. 26, 1925, ch. 345, § 6](/us/act/1925-02-26/ch345/s6), [43 Stat. 996](/us/stat/43/996).)"
---
# § 146. General powers of corporation

##### § 146. General powers of corporation

(a) Shall have the right of succession during the existence of the corporation;

(b) Shall have a corporate seal and may, with the approval of the Secretary, alter it;

(c) May sue and be sued;

(d) Shall have the right to transact the business authorized by its articles of incorporation and such further business as is properly connected therewith or necessary and incidental thereto;

(e) May make contracts and incur liabilities;

(f) May acquire and hold real or personal property, necessary to effect the purpose for which it is formed, and dispose of such property when no longer needed for such purposes;

(g) May borrow money and issue its notes, coupon or registered bonds, or other evidences of debt, and secure their payment by a mortgage of its property; and

(h) May establish such branch offices at such places in China as it deems advisable.

*([Sept. 19, 1922, ch. 346, § 6](/us/act/1922-09-19/ch346/s6), [42 Stat. 851](/us/stat/42/851); [Feb. 26, 1925, ch. 345, § 6](/us/act/1925-02-26/ch345/s6), [43 Stat. 996](/us/stat/43/996).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1925—Par. (b). Act Feb. 26, 1925, substituted “Shall” for “May”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Treaty

Par. (h) of this section has been affected by the 1943 Treaty between United States of America and the Republic of China, [57 Stat. 767](/us/stat/57/767), in which the United States relinquished all extraterritorial jurisdiction and rights in China. See Codification note set out under [section 142 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s142).
