---
title: "§ 8960. Studies, reports, and audits"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8960"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8960"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–496, § 2](/us/pl/108/496/s2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 4005](/us/stat/118/4005).)"
---
# § 8960. Studies, reports, and audits

##### § 8960. Studies, reports, and audits

(a) Each contract shall contain provisions requiring the qualified company to—

(1) furnish such reasonable reports as the Office determines to be necessary to enable it to carry out its functions under this chapter; and

(2) permit the Office and representatives of the Government Accountability Office to examine such records of the qualified company as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.

(b) Each Federal agency shall keep such records, make such certifications, and furnish the Office, the qualified company, or both, with such information and reports as the Office may require.

(c) The Office shall conduct periodic reviews of plans under this chapter, including a comparison of the dental benefits available under chapter 89, to ensure the competitiveness of plans under this chapter. The Office shall cooperate with the Government Accountability Office to provide periodic evaluations of the program.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–496, § 2](/us/pl/108/496/s2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 4005](/us/stat/118/4005).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 23, 2004, and applicable to contracts that take effect with respect to the calendar year 2006, see [section 7 of Pub. L. 108–496](/us/pl/108/496/s7), set out as a note under [section 8951 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8951).
