---
title: "§ 327. Application for grant by department or agency"
identifier: "USC-T25-S327"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section327"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Feb. 5, 1948, ch. 45, § 5](/us/act/1948-02-05/ch45/s5), [62 Stat. 18](/us/stat/62/18).)"
---
# § 327. Application for grant by department or agency

##### § 327. Application for grant by department or agency

Rights-of-way for the use of the United States may be granted under sections 323 to 328 of this title upon application by the department or agency having jurisdiction over the activity for which the right-of-way is to be used.

*([Feb. 5, 1948, ch. 45, § 5](/us/act/1948-02-05/ch45/s5), [62 Stat. 18](/us/stat/62/18).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of the Interior relating to compliance with rights-of-way across Indian lands, issued under section 321 et seq. of this title with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(e), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, [93 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/93/1373), 1376, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, effective July 1, 1979, pursuant to Ex. Ord. No. 12142, § 1–101, June 21, 1979, 44 F.R. 36927, set out as a note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e), Commerce and Trade. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by [section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486/s3012/b), set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e). Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by [section 720d(f) of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s720d/f).
