---
title: "§ 10493. Uses of funds"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10493"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10493"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2303](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2303), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXI, § 210201(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXI/s210201/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2062](/us/stat/108/2062); amended [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(4)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/4), July 25, 2019, [133 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/133/1036).)"
---
# § 10493. Uses of funds

##### § 10493. Uses of funds

(a) In general A State or local law enforcement agency or organization that receives a grant under this subchapter 11 See References in Text note below. shall use amounts provided under the grant to establish or improve training and support programs for law enforcement personnel.

(b) Required activities A law enforcement agency or organization that receives funds under this subchapter shall provide at least one of the following services:

(1) Counseling for law enforcement officers and family members.

(2) Child care on a 24-hour basis.

(3) Marital and adolescent support groups.

(4) Evidence-based programs to reduce stress, prevent suicide, and promote mental health.

(5) Stress education for law enforcement recruits and families.

(6) Technical assistance and training programs to support any or all of the services described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5).

(c) Optional activities A law enforcement agency or organization that receives funds under this subchapter may provide the following services:

(1) Post-shooting debriefing for officers and their spouses.

(2) Group therapy.

(3) Hypertension clinics.

(4) Critical incident response on a 24-hour basis.

(5) Law enforcement family crisis, mental health crisis, and suicide prevention telephone services on a 24-hour basis.

(6) Counseling for law enforcement personnel exposed to infectious disease.

(7) Counseling for peers.

(8) Counseling for families of personnel killed, injured, or permanently disabled in the line of duty.

(9) Seminars regarding alcohol, drug use, gambling, and overeating.

(10) Specialized training for identifying, reporting, and responding to officer mental health crises and suicide.

(11) Technical assistance and training to support any or all of the services described in paragraphs (1) through (10).

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2303](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2303), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXI, § 210201(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXI/s210201/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2062](/us/stat/108/2062); amended [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(4)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/4), July 25, 2019, [133 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/133/1036).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, and was translated as reading “this part”, meaning part W of title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796jj–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796jj–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(4)(A)(i)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/4/A/i), inserted “officers and” after “law enforcement”.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(4)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/4/A/ii), amended par. (4) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (4) read as follows: “Stress reduction programs.”

Subsec. (c)(5). [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(4)(B)(i)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/4/B/i), inserted “, mental health crisis, and suicide prevention” after “family crisis”.

Subsec. (c)(6). [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(4)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/4/B/ii), substituted “infectious disease” for “the human immunodeficiency virus”.

Subsec. (c)(8). [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(4)(B)(iii)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/4/B/iii), inserted “, injured, or permanently disabled” after “killed”.

Subsec. (c)(10), (11). [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(4)(B)(iv)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/4/B/iv), added pars. (10) and (11) and struck out former par. (10) which read as follows: “Technical assistance and training to support any or all of the services described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), and (9).”
