---
title: "§ 6102. State marine casualty reporting system"
identifier: "USC-T46-S6102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section6102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 536](/us/stat/97/536); [Pub. L. 98–557, § 7(b)(2)](/us/pl/98/557/s7/b/2), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2862](/us/stat/98/2862).)"
---
# § 6102. State marine casualty reporting system

##### § 6102. State marine casualty reporting system

(a) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for a uniform State marine casualty reporting system for vessels. Regulations shall prescribe the casualties to be reported and the manner of reporting. A State shall compile and submit to the Secretary reports, information, and statistics on casualties reported to the State, including information and statistics concerning the number of casualties in which the use of alcohol contributed to the casualty.

(b) The Secretary shall collect, analyze, and publish reports, information, and statistics on marine casualties together with findings and recommendations the Secretary considers appropriate. If a State marine casualty reporting system provides that information derived from casualty reports (except statistical information) may not be publicly disclosed, or otherwise prohibits use by the State or any person in any action or proceeding against a person, the Secretary may use the information provided by the State only in the same way that the State may use the information.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 536](/us/stat/97/536); [Pub. L. 98–557, § 7(b)(2)](/us/pl/98/557/s7/b/2), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2862](/us/stat/98/2862).)*

Section 6102(a) requires the Secretary to prescribe regulations for a uniform State marine casualty reporting system for vessels. The Secretary may limit the scope and types of casualties to be investigated and reported by the State. It also requires the State to submit to the Secretary reports, information, and statistics on casualties reported to the State.

Subsection (b) requires the Secretary to analyze the information that is received from the State. It also prohibits the Secretary from disclosing the information, proceeding against any person based on this information, or otherwise using the information, if the State cannot use the information in the same way.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 6102 | 46:1486 |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–557](/us/pl/98/557) inserted provisions relating to alcohol as a contributing factor to the casualty.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Plan To Increase Marine Casualty Reporting

[Pub. L. 104–324, title III, § 314(a)](/us/pl/104/324/tIII/s314/a), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3922](/us/stat/110/3922), provided that: “Not later than one year after enactment of this Act [Oct. 19, 1996], the Secretary of Transportation shall, in consultation with appropriate State agencies, submit to the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural Resources] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a plan to increase reporting of vessel accidents to appropriate State law enforcement officials.”
