---
title: "§ 6871. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6871"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6871"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–62, § 2](/us/pl/119/62/s2), Dec. 26, 2025, [139 Stat. 1979](/us/stat/139/1979).)"
---
# § 6871. Definitions

##### § 6871. Definitions

(1) Federal fishing restriction The term “Federal fishing restriction” means a defined area in which all or certain fishing activities are temporarily or permanently prohibited or restricted by a Federal land or water management agency.

(2) Federal land or water management agency The term “Federal land or water management agency” means—

(A) the Bureau of Reclamation;

(B) the National Park Service;

(C) the Bureau of Land Management;

(D) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; and

(E) the Forest Service.

(3) Federal waterway The term “Federal waterway” means waters managed by 1 or more of the relevant Secretaries.

(4) Federal waterway restriction The term “Federal waterway restriction” means a restriction on the access or use of a Federal waterway applied under applicable law by 1 or more of the Secretaries.

(5) Secretaries The term “Secretaries” means—

(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service; and

(B) the Secretary of the Interior.

(6) State The term “State” means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each territory of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 119–62, § 2](/us/pl/119/62/s2), Dec. 26, 2025, [139 Stat. 1979](/us/stat/139/1979).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 119–62, § 1](/us/pl/119/62/s1), Dec. 26, 2025, [139 Stat. 1979](/us/stat/139/1979), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Modernizing Access to our Public Waters Act of 2025’ or the ‘MAPWaters Act of 2025’.”
