---
title: "§ 9068. Air Force Global Strike Command"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9068"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9068"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title XVI, § 1642(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tXVI/s1642/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1191](/us/stat/139/1191).)"
---
# § 9068. Air Force Global Strike Command

##### § 9068. Air Force Global Strike Command

(a) Establishment.— There is in the Air Force a major command, which shall be known as Air Force Global Strike Command.

(b) Commander.—

(1) The Commander of Air Force Global Strike Command shall hold the grade of general while serving in that position, without vacating that officer’s permanent grade. The commander shall be appointed to that grade by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for service in that position.

(2) The commander shall serve as the single accountable officer responsible to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force for carrying out all aspects of Air Force nuclear and long-range strike missions in support of United States Strategic Command, including such aspects described in subsection (c).

(c) Functions.— The Commander of Air Force Global Strike Command shall be responsible for carrying out all aspects and activities of the Air Force nuclear and long-range strike missions in support of United States Strategic Command. Such aspects include nuclear weapons, nuclear weapon delivery systems, long-range strike bomber aircraft, and the nuclear command, control, and communication systems. Such activities include the following:

(1) Providing combat-ready nuclear and long-range conventional strike forces in support of Presidential and combatant commander directives.

(2) Administrating, organizing, training, and equipping assigned and gained forces.

(3) Assessing the readiness of assigned and gained forces and submitting to the Secretary and the Air Force Chief of Staff periodic reports with respect to such assessments.

(4) Leading development in the Air Force of—

(A) military requirements with respect to nuclear and long-range strike missions;

(B) budget proposals necessary to carry out the missions of the Air Force Global Strike Command;

(C) long-range investment plans and priorities to sustain, modernize, and recapitalize assigned forces; and

(D) employment strategies, concepts, tactics, techniques, and procedures with respect to strategic deterrence, nuclear deterrence operation, and long-range strike operations.

(5) Advising the Secretary, as necessary, on the adequacy of resources of the Department of the Air Force dedicated to support and execute nuclear missions.

(6) Such other functions as the Secretary determines necessary or appropriate for execution of nuclear deterrence and long-range strike missions.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title XVI, § 1642(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tXVI/s1642/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1191](/us/stat/139/1191).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 9068 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9068) resulted from the redesignation of [section 9084 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9084) as [section 9068 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9068) by [section 952(b)(1) of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/s952/b/1). Such section 9068 was renumbered [section 9083 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9083) by [section 952(e) of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/s952/e) and subsequently repealed by [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 921(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s921/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3804](/us/stat/134/3804).

A prior section 9069 was renumbered [section 9064 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9064).

A prior section 9074 was renumbered [section 9065 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9065).

A prior section 9075 was renumbered [section 9066 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9066).
