---
title: "§ 11505. Disposal of forfeitures"
identifier: "USC-T46-S11505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section11505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 584](/us/stat/97/584); [Pub. L. 103–206, title IV, § 421](/us/pl/103/206/tIV/s421), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2438](/us/stat/107/2438).)"
---
# § 11505. Disposal of forfeitures

##### § 11505. Disposal of forfeitures

(a) Money, property, and wages forfeited under this chapter for desertion may be applied to compensate the owner or master of the vessel for expenses caused by the desertion. The balance shall be transferred to the appropriate district court of the United States when the voyage is completed.

(b) If it appears to the district court that the forfeiture was imposed properly, the property transferred may be sold in the same manner prescribed for the disposition of the property of deceased seamen. The court shall deposit in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts the proceeds of the sale and any money and wages transferred to the court.

(c) When an owner or master fails to transfer the balance as required under subsection (a) of this section, the owner or master is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of 2 times the amount of the balance, recoverable by the Secretary in the same manner that seaman’s wages are recovered.

(d) In all other cases of forfeiture of wages, the forfeiture shall be for the benefit of the owner of the vessel.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 584](/us/stat/97/584); [Pub. L. 103–206, title IV, § 421](/us/pl/103/206/tIV/s421), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2438](/us/stat/107/2438).)*

Section 11505 provides for the disposal of wages forfeited by deserting seamen.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 11505 | 46:706 |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–206, § 421(1)](/us/pl/103/206/s421/1), substituted “The balance shall be transferred to the appropriate district court of the United States when the voyage is completed.” for “The balance shall be transferred to the Secretary when the voyage is completed, as prescribed by the Secretary.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–206, § 421(2)](/us/pl/103/206/s421/2), struck out at beginning “Within one month of receiving the balance under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall transfer the balance to the appropriate district court of the United States.”
