---
title: "§ 5306. Criminal activities involving grants, contracts, etc.; penalties"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–638, § 6](/us/pl/93/638/s6), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2205](/us/stat/88/2205).)"
---
# § 5306. Criminal activities involving grants, contracts, etc.; penalties

##### § 5306. Criminal activities involving grants, contracts, etc.; penalties

Whoever, being an officer, director, agent, or employee of, or connected in any capacity with, any recipient of a contract, subcontract, grant, or subgrant pursuant to this chapter or the Act of April 16, 1934 ([48 Stat. 596](/us/stat/48/596)), as amended [[25 U.S.C. 5342](/us/usc/t25/s5342) et seq.], embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any of the money, funds, assets, or property which are the subject of such a grant, subgrant, contract, or subcontract, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than two years, or both, but if the amount so embezzled, misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud does not exceed $100, he shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.

*([Pub. L. 93–638, § 6](/us/pl/93/638/s6), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2205](/us/stat/88/2205).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), known as the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

Act of April 16, 1934, referred to in text, is [act Apr. 16, 1934, ch. 147](/us/act/1934-04-16/ch147), [48 Stat. 596](/us/stat/48/596), popularly known as the Johnson-O’Malley Act, which is classified generally to section 5342 et seq. of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 450d of this title](/us/usc/t25/s450d) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
