---
title: "§ 541. Supervision and direction"
identifier: "USC-T40-S541"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section541"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1086](/us/stat/116/1086).)"
---
# § 541. Supervision and direction

##### § 541. Supervision and direction

Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the Administrator of General Services shall supervise and direct the disposition of surplus property in accordance with this subtitle.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1086](/us/stat/116/1086).)*

The words “shall supervise and direct the disposition of surplus property in accordance with this subtitle” are substituted for “shall have supervision and direction over the disposition of surplus property. Such property shall be disposed of to such extent, at such time, in such areas, by such agencies, at such terms and conditions, and in such manner, as may be prescribed in or pursuant to this Act” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 541 | 40:484(a). | June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title II, § 203(a), 63 Stat. 385. |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transferred Properties; Requests Prior to November 30, 1983

[Pub. L. 98–181, title I](/us/pl/98/181/tI) [title I, § 126(a)(2), (3)], Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1175](/us/stat/97/1175), provided that: “(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) [repealing former [40 U.S.C. 484b](/us/usc/t40/s484b)], the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture may dispose of Federal surplus real property pursuant to the terms of section 414 of such Act [former [40 U.S.C. 484b](/us/usc/t40/s484b)] if, prior to the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 30, 1983], either Secretary had requested the Administrator of General Services to transfer such property for such disposition. “(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), section 414(b) [former [40 U.S.C. 484b(b)](/us/usc/t40/s484b/b)] of such Act shall continue to apply, where applicable, to all property transferred by either Secretary pursuant to section 414 of such Act, including properties transferred pursuant to paragraph (2).”
