---
title: "§ 247d–12. Coordination and collaboration regarding blood supply"
identifier: "USC-T42-S247d–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section247d–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2233](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2233), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5754](/us/stat/136/5754).)"
---
# § 247d–12. Coordination and collaboration regarding blood supply

##### § 247d–12. Coordination and collaboration regarding blood supply

(1) ensure coordination and collaboration between relevant Federal departments and agencies related to the safety and availability of the blood supply, including—

(A) the Department of Health and Human Services, including the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and the Health Resources and Services Administration;

(B) the Department of Defense; and

(C) the Department of Veterans Affairs; and

(2) consult and communicate with private stakeholders, including blood collection establishments, health care providers, accreditation organizations, researchers, and patients, regarding issues related to the safety and availability of the blood supply.

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2233](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2233), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5754](/us/stat/136/5754).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Prepare for and Respond to Existing Viruses, Emerging New Threats, and Pandemics Act, also known as the PREVENT Pandemics Act, and also as part of the Health Extenders, Improving Access to Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP, and Strengthening Public Health Act of 2022, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Streamlining Blood Donor Input

[Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title III, § 3631](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tIII/s3631), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5895](/us/stat/136/5895), provided that: “Chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, shall not apply to the collection of information to which a response is voluntary and that is initiated by the Secretary [of Health and Human Services] to solicit information from blood donors or potential blood donors to support the development of recommendations by the Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, concerning blood donation.”
