---
title: "§ 2076a. Report on civil penalties"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2076a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2076a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–608, title I, § 115(d)](/us/pl/101/608/tI/s115/d), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3121](/us/stat/104/3121).)"
---
# § 2076a. Report on civil penalties

##### § 2076a. Report on civil penalties

(1) Beginning 1 year after November 16, 1990, and every year thereafter, the Consumer Product Safety Commission shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives the information specified in paragraph (2). Such information may be included in the annual report to the Congress submitted by the Commission.

(2) The Commission shall submit information with respect to the imposition of civil penalties under the statutes which it administers. The information shall include the number of civil penalties imposed, an identification of the violations that led to the imposition of such penalties, and the amount of revenue recovered from the imposition of such penalties.

*([Pub. L. 101–608, title I, § 115(d)](/us/pl/101/608/tI/s115/d), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3121](/us/stat/104/3121).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 1990, and not as part of the Consumer Product Safety Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.
