---
title: "§ 8571. Statement of policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8571"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8571"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–50, div. J, § 2](/us/pl/118/50/dJ/s2), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 963](/us/stat/138/963).)"
---
# § 8571. Statement of policy

##### § 8571. Statement of policy

(1) to deny Iran the ability to engage in destabilizing activities, support international terrorism, fund the development and acquisition of weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver such weapons by limiting export of petroleum and petroleum products by Iran;

(2) to deny Iran funds to oppress and commit human rights violations against the Iranian people assembling to peacefully redress the Iranian regime;

(3) to fully enforce sanctions against those entities which provide support to the Iranian energy sector; and

(4) to counter Iran’s actions to finance and facilitate the participation of foreign terrorist organizations in ongoing conflicts and illicit activities due to the threat such actions pose to the vital national interests of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 118–50, div. J, § 2](/us/pl/118/50/dJ/s2), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 963](/us/stat/138/963).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Stop Harboring Iranian Petroleum Act, also known as the SHIP Act, and not as part of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of this subchapter as the “Stop Harboring Iranian Petroleum Act”, also known as the “SHIP Act”, see [section 1 of div. J of Pub. L. 118–50](/us/pl/118/50/dJ/s1), set out as a Short Title of 2024 Amendment note under [section 8501 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8501).
