---
title: "§ 8962. PFAS research and development"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8962"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8962"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXIII, § 7362](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXIII/s7362), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2290](/us/stat/133/2290).)"
---
# § 8962. PFAS research and development

##### § 8962. PFAS research and development

(a) In general The Administrator, acting through the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Research and Development, shall—

(1)

(A) further examine the effects of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances on human health and the environment; and

(B) make publicly available information relating to the findings under subparagraph (A);

(2) develop a process for prioritizing which perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, or classes of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, should be subject to additional research efforts that is based on—

(A) the potential for human exposure to the substances or classes of substances;

(B) the potential toxicity of the substances or classes of substances; and

(C) information available about the substances or classes of substances;

(3) develop new tools to characterize and identify perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the environment, including in drinking water, wastewater, surface water, groundwater, solids, and the air;

(4) evaluate approaches for the remediation of contamination by perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the environment; and

(5) develop and implement new tools and materials to communicate with the public about perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.

(b) Funding There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXIII, § 7362](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXIII/s7362), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2290](/us/stat/133/2290).)*
