---
title: "§ 2168. Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center: degree of Associate or Bachelor of Arts in foreign language"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2168"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2168"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title V, § 531(a)](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tV/s531/a), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1104](/us/stat/115/1104); amended [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, § 556(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tV/s556/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1739](/us/stat/135/1739).)"
---
# § 2168. Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center: degree of Associate or Bachelor of Arts in foreign language

##### § 2168. Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center: degree of Associate or Bachelor of Arts in foreign language

(a) Subject to subsection (b), the Commandant of the Defense Language Institute may confer—

(1) an Associate of Arts degree in a foreign language upon any graduate of the Foreign Language Center of the Institute who fulfills the requirements for that degree; or

(2) a Bachelor of Arts degree in a foreign language upon any graduate of the Foreign Language Center of the Institute who fulfills the requirements for that degree.

(b) A degree may be conferred upon a student under this section only if the Provost of the Center certifies to the Commandant that the student has satisfied all the requirements prescribed for the degree.

(c) The authority provided by subsection (a) shall be exercised under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title V, § 531(a)](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tV/s531/a), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1104](/us/stat/115/1104); amended [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, § 556(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tV/s556/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1739](/us/stat/135/1739).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 117–81, § 556(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/s556/a/1), substituted “Associate or Bachelor” for “Associate” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–81, § 556(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/81/s556/a/2), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: “Subject to subsection (b), the Commandant of the Defense Language Institute may confer an Associate of Arts degree in a foreign language upon any graduate of the Foreign Language Center of the Institute who fulfills the requirements for that degree.”
