---
title: "§ 4003. Federal institutions in States without appropriate facilities"
identifier: "USC-T18-S4003"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section4003"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 848](/us/stat/62/848).)"
---
# § 4003. Federal institutions in States without appropriate facilities

##### § 4003. Federal institutions in States without appropriate facilities

If by reason of the refusal or inability of the authorities having control of any jail, workhouse, penal, correctional, or other suitable institution of any State or Territory, or political subdivision thereof, to enter into a contract for the imprisonment, subsistence, care, or proper employment of United States prisoners, or if there are no suitable or sufficient facilities available at reasonable cost, the Attorney General may select a site either within or convenient to the State, Territory, or judicial district concerned and cause to be erected thereon a house of detention, workhouse, jail, prison-industries project, or camp, or other place of confinement, which shall be used for the detention of persons held under authority of any Act of Congress, and of such other persons as in the opinion of the Attorney General are proper subjects for confinement in such institutions.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 848](/us/stat/62/848).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 753c ([May 14, 1930, ch. 274, § 4](/us/act/1930-05-14/ch274/s4), [46 Stat. 326](/us/stat/46/326)).

Words “with or without hard labor” were omitted as unnecessary in view of omission of “hard labor” as part of the punishment. (See reviser’s note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1).)

The phrase “held under authority of any Act of Congress,” was substituted for the following “held as material witnesses, persons awaiting trial, persons sentenced to imprisonment and awaiting transfer to other institutions, persons held for violation of the immigration laws or awaiting deportation, and for the confinement of persons convicted of offenses against the United States and sentenced to imprisonment”.

Minor changes in arrangement and phraseology were made.
