---
title: "§ 40724. DNA research and development"
identifier: "USC-T34-S40724"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section40724"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–405, title III, § 305](/us/pl/108/405/tIII/s305), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2273](/us/stat/118/2273); [Pub. L. 114–324, § 8(a)](/us/pl/114/324/s8/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1954](/us/stat/130/1954).)"
---
# § 40724. DNA research and development

##### § 40724. DNA research and development

(a) Improving DNA technology The Attorney General shall make grants for research and development to improve forensic DNA technology, including increasing the identification accuracy and efficiency of DNA analysis, decreasing time and expense, and increasing portability.

(b) Demonstration projects The Attorney General shall make grants to appropriate entities under which research is carried out through demonstration projects involving coordinated training and commitment of resources to law enforcement agencies and key criminal justice participants to demonstrate and evaluate the use of forensic DNA technology in conjunction with other forensic tools. The demonstration projects shall include scientific evaluation of the public safety benefits, improvements to law enforcement operations, and cost-effectiveness of increased collection and use of DNA evidence.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 108–405, title III, § 305](/us/pl/108/405/tIII/s305), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2273](/us/stat/118/2273); [Pub. L. 114–324, § 8(a)](/us/pl/114/324/s8/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1954](/us/stat/130/1954).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14136b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14136b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–324](/us/pl/114/324) substituted “$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021” for “$15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2009”.
