---
title: "§ 4242. Determination of the existence of insanity at the time of the offense"
identifier: "USC-T18-S4242"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section4242"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 855](/us/stat/62/855); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 403(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s403/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2059](/us/stat/98/2059).)"
---
# § 4242. Determination of the existence of insanity at the time of the offense

##### § 4242. Determination of the existence of insanity at the time of the offense

(a) Motion for Pretrial Psychiatric or Psychological Examination.— Upon the filing of a notice, as provided in Rule 12.2 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, that the defendant intends to rely on the defense of insanity, the court, upon motion of the attorney for the Government, shall order that a psychiatric or psychological examination of the defendant be conducted, and that a psychiatric or psychological report be filed with the court, pursuant to the provisions of section 4247(b) and (c).

(b) Special Verdict.— If the issue of insanity is raised by notice as provided in Rule 12.2 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure on motion of the defendant or of the attorney for the Government, or on the court’s own motion, the jury shall be instructed to find, or, in the event of a nonjury trial, the court shall find the defendant—

(1) guilty;

(2) not guilty; or

(3) not guilty only by reason of insanity.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 855](/us/stat/62/855); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 403(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s403/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2059](/us/stat/98/2059).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 877 ([May 13, 1930, ch. 254, § 7](/us/act/1930-05-13/ch254/s7), [46 Stat. 272](/us/stat/46/272)).

Minor change was made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) amended section generally, substituting “Determination of the existence of insanity at the time of the offense” for “Retransfer upon recovery” in section catchline, and substituting provisions relating to motion for pretrial psychiatric or psychological examination, and special verdict, for provisions relating to retransfer to a penal or correctional institution upon recovery of an inmate of the United States hospital for defective delinquents.
