---
title: "§ 3107. Certification of compliance with oversight requirements"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 508, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 332(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s332/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2686](/us/stat/124/2686).)"
---
# § 3107. Certification of compliance with oversight requirements

##### § 3107. Certification of compliance with oversight requirements

(1) a certification that, to the best of the knowledge of the head of such element—

(A) the head of such element is in full compliance with the requirements of this subchapter; and

(B) any information required to be submitted by the head of such element under this chapter before the date of the submission of such certification has been properly submitted; or

(2) if the head of such element is unable to submit a certification under paragraph (1), a statement—

(A) of the reasons the head of such element is unable to submit such a certification;

(B) describing any information required to be submitted by the head of such element under this chapter before the date of the submission of such statement that has not been properly submitted; and

(C) that the head of such element will submit such information as soon as possible after the submission of such statement.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 508, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 332(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s332/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2686](/us/stat/124/2686).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in pars. (1)(B) and (2)(B), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), [61 Stat. 495](/us/stat/61/495), known as the National Security Act of 1947, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 415d of this title](/us/usc/t50/s415d) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Applicability Date

[Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 332(b)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s332/b), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2687](/us/stat/124/2687), provided that: “The first certification or statement required to be submitted by the head of each element of the intelligence community under section 508 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3107](/us/usc/t50/s3107)], as added by subsection (a), shall be submitted not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 7, 2010].”

[For definition of “intelligence community” as used in [section 332(b) of Pub. L. 111–259](/us/pl/111/259/s332/b), set out above, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 111–259](/us/pl/111/259/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).]
