---
title: "§ 24310. Management accountability"
identifier: "USC-T49-S24310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section24310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title II, § 221(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tII/s221/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4931](/us/stat/122/4931).)"
---
# § 24310. Management accountability

##### § 24310. Management accountability

(a) In General.— Within 3 years after the date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, and 2 years thereafter, the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation shall complete an overall assessment of the progress made by Amtrak management and the Department of Transportation in implementing the provisions of that Act.

(b) Assessment.— The management assessment undertaken by the Inspector General may include a review of—

(1) effectiveness in improving annual financial planning;

(2) effectiveness in implementing improved financial accounting;

(3) efforts to implement minimum train performance standards;

(4) progress maximizing revenues, minimizing Federal subsidies, and improving financial results; and

(5) any other aspect of Amtrak operations the Inspector General finds appropriate to review.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title II, § 221(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dB/tII/s221/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4931](/us/stat/122/4931).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, referred to in subsec. (a), is div. B of [Pub. L. 110–432](/us/pl/110/432), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4907](/us/stat/122/4907). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2008 Amendment note set out under [section 20101 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s20101) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 24310, [Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 914](/us/stat/108/914), allowed petition or application for assistance in upgrading facilities to correct dangerous conditions or State and local violations, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 105–134, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/105/134/tIV/s403), Dec. 2, 1997, [111 Stat. 2585](/us/stat/111/2585).
