---
title: "§ 2297g–1. Deposits"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2297g–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2297g–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title II, § 1802, as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/102/486/tXI/s1101), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2953](/us/stat/106/2953); amended [Pub. L. 105–388, § 11(c)](/us/pl/105/388/s11/c), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3485](/us/stat/112/3485); [Pub. L. 107–222, § 1(c)](/us/pl/107/222/s1/c), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1336](/us/stat/116/1336).)"
---
# § 2297g–1. Deposits

##### § 2297g–1. Deposits

(a) Amount The Fund shall consist of deposits in the amount of $518,233,333 per fiscal year (to be annually adjusted for inflation beginning on October 24, 1992, using the Consumer Price Index for all-urban consumers published by the Department of Labor) as provided in this section.

(b) Source Deposits described in subsection (a) shall be from the following sources:

(1) Sums collected pursuant to subsection (c).

(2) Appropriations made pursuant to subsection (d).

(c) Special assessment The Secretary shall collect a special assessment from domestic utilities. The total amount collected for a fiscal year shall not exceed $150,000,000 (to be annually adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index for all-urban consumers published by the Department of Labor). The amount collected from each utility pursuant to this subsection for a fiscal year shall be in the same ratio to the amount required under subsection (a) to be deposited for such fiscal year as the total amount of separative work units such utility has purchased from the Department of Energy for the purpose of commercial electricity generation, before October 24, 1992, bears to the total amount of separative work units purchased from the Department of Energy for all purposes (including units purchased or produced for defense purposes) before October 24, 1992. For purposes of this subsection—

(1) a utility shall be considered to have purchased a separative work unit from the Department if such separative work unit was produced by the Department, but purchased by the utility from another source; and

(2) a utility shall not be considered to have purchased a separative work unit from the Department if such separative work unit was purchased by the utility, but sold to another source.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Fund, for the period encompassing 15 years after October 24, 1992, such sums as are necessary to ensure that the amount required under subsection (a) is deposited for each fiscal year.

(e) Termination of assessments The collection of amounts under subsection (c) shall cease after the earlier of—

(1) 15 years after October 24, 1992; or

(2) the collection of $2,250,000,000 (to be annually adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index for all-urban consumers published by the Department of Labor) under such subsection.

(f) Continuation of deposits Except as provided in subsection (e), deposits shall continue to be made into the Fund under subsection (d) for the period specified in such subsection.

(g) Treatment of assessment Any special assessment levied under this section on domestic utilities for the decontamination and decommissioning of the Department’s gaseous diffusion enrichment facilities shall be deemed a necessary and reasonable current cost of fuel and shall be fully recoverable in rates in all jurisdictions in the same manner as the utility’s other fuel cost.

*([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title II, § 1802, as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/102/486/tXI/s1101), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2953](/us/stat/106/2953); amended [Pub. L. 105–388, § 11(c)](/us/pl/105/388/s11/c), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3485](/us/stat/112/3485); [Pub. L. 107–222, § 1(c)](/us/pl/107/222/s1/c), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1336](/us/stat/116/1336).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–222](/us/pl/107/222) substituted “$518,233,333” for “$488,333,333” and inserted “beginning on October 24, 1992,” after “inflation”.

1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–388](/us/pl/105/388) substituted “$488,333,333” for “$480,000,000”.
