---
title: "§ 3055. Horseracing anti-doping and medication control program"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3055"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3055"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title XII, § 1206](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tXII/s1206), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3263](/us/stat/134/3263).)"
---
# § 3055. Horseracing anti-doping and medication control program

##### § 3055. Horseracing anti-doping and medication control program

(a) Program required

(1) In general Not later than the program effective date, and after notice and an opportunity for public comment in accordance with [section 3053 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3053), the Authority shall establish a horseracing anti-doping and medication control program applicable to all covered horses, covered persons, and covered horseraces in accordance with the registration of covered persons under [section 3054(d) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3054/d).

(2) Consideration of other breeds In developing the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program with respect to a breed of horse that is made subject to this chapter by election of a State racing commission or the breed governing organization for such horse under section 3054(k) 11 So in original. Probably should be “section 3054(*l*)”. of this title, the Authority shall consider the unique characteristics of such breed.

(b) Considerations in development of program In developing the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program, the Authority shall take into consideration the following:

(1) Covered horses should compete only when they are free from the influence of medications, other foreign substances, and methods that affect their performance.

(2) Covered horses that are injured or unsound should not train or participate in covered races, and the use of medications, other foreign substances, and treatment methods that mask or deaden pain in order to allow injured or unsound horses to train or race should be prohibited.

(3) Rules, standards, procedures, and protocols regulating medication and treatment methods for covered horses and covered races should be uniform and uniformly administered nationally.

(4) To the extent consistent with this chapter, consideration should be given to international anti-doping and medication control standards of the International Federation of Horseracing Authorities and the Principles of Veterinary Medical Ethics of the American Veterinary Medical Association.

(5) The administration of medications and treatment methods to covered horses should be based upon an examination and diagnosis that identifies an issue requiring treatment for which the medication or method represents an appropriate component of treatment.

(6) The amount of therapeutic medication that a covered horse receives should be the minimum necessary to address the diagnosed health concerns identified during the examination and diagnostic process.

(7) The welfare of covered horses, the integrity of the sport, and the confidence of the betting public require full disclosure to regulatory authorities regarding the administration of medications and treatments to covered horses.

(c) Activities The following activities shall be carried out under the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program:

(1) Standards for anti-doping and medication control Not later than 120 days before the program effective date, the Authority shall issue, by rule—

(A) uniform standards for—

(i) the administration of medication to covered horses by covered persons; and

(ii) laboratory testing accreditation and protocols; and

(B) a list of permitted and prohibited medications, substances, and methods, including allowable limits of permitted medications, substances, and methods.

(2) Review process for administration of medication The development of a review process for the administration of any medication to a covered horse during the 48-hour period preceding the next racing start of the covered horse.

(3) Agreement requirements The development of requirements with respect to agreements under [section 3054(e) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3054/e).

(4) Anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency

(A) Control rules, protocols, etc Except as provided in paragraph (5), the anti-doping and medication control program enforcement agency under [section 3054(e) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3054/e) shall, in consultation with the anti-doping and medication control standing committee of the Authority and consistent with international best practices, develop and recommend anti-doping and medication control rules, protocols, policies, and guidelines for approval by the Authority.

(B) Results management The anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency shall conduct and oversee anti-doping and medication control results management, including independent investigations, charging and adjudication of potential medication control rule violations, and the enforcement of any civil sanctions for such violations. Any final decision or civil sanction of the anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency under this subparagraph shall be the final decision or civil sanction of the Authority, subject to review in accordance with [section 3058 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3058).

(C) Testing The anti-doping enforcement agency shall perform and manage test distribution planning (including intelligence-based testing), the sample collection process, and in-competition and out-of-competition testing (including no-advance-notice testing).

(D) Testing laboratories The anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency shall accredit testing laboratories based upon the standards established under this chapter, and shall monitor, test, and audit accredited laboratories to ensure continuing compliance with accreditation standards.

(5) Anti-doping and medication control standing committee The anti-doping and medication control standing committee shall, in consultation with the anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency, develop lists of permitted and prohibited medications, methods, and substances for recommendation to, and approval by, the Authority. Any such list may prohibit the administration of any substance or method to a horse at any time after such horse becomes a covered horse if the Authority determines such substance or method has a long-term degrading effect on the soundness of a horse.

(d) Prohibition Except as provided in subsections (e) and (f), the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program shall prohibit the administration of any prohibited or otherwise permitted substance to a covered horse within 48 hours of its next racing start, effective as of the program effective date.

(e) Advisory committee study and report

(1) In general Not later than the program effective date, the Authority shall convene an advisory committee comprised of horseracing anti-doping and medication control industry experts, including a member designated by the anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency, to conduct a study on the use of furosemide on horses during the 48-hour period before the start of a race, including the effect of furosemide on equine health and the integrity of competition and any other matter the Authority considers appropriate.

(2) Report Not later than three years after the program effective date, the Authority shall direct the advisory committee convened under paragraph (1) to submit to the Authority a written report on the study conducted under that paragraph that includes recommended changes, if any, to the prohibition in subsection (d).

(3) Modification of prohibition

(A) In general After receipt of the report required by paragraph (2), the Authority may, by unanimous vote of the Board of the Authority, modify the prohibition in subsection (d) and, notwithstanding subsection (f), any such modification shall apply to all States beginning on the date that is three years after the program effective date.

(B) Condition In order for a unanimous vote described in subparagraph (A) to effect a modification of the prohibition in subsection (d), the vote must include unanimous adoption of each of the following findings:

(i) That the modification is warranted.

(ii) That the modification is in the best interests of horse racing.

(iii) That furosemide has no performance enhancing effect on individual horses.

(iv) That public confidence in the integrity and safety of racing would not be adversely affected by the modification.

(f) Exemption

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), only during the three-year period beginning on the program effective date, a State racing commission may submit to the Authority, at such time and in such manner as the Authority may require, a request for an exemption from the prohibition in subsection (d) with respect to the use of furosemide on covered horses during such period.

(2) Exceptions An exemption under paragraph (1) may not be requested for—

(A) two-year-old covered horses; or

(B) covered horses competing in stakes races.

(3) Contents of request A request under paragraph (1) shall specify the applicable State racing commission’s requested limitations on the use of furosemide that would apply to the State under the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program during such period. Such limitations shall be no less restrictive on the use and administration of furosemide than the restrictions set forth in State’s laws and regulations in effect as of September 1, 2020.

(4) Grant of exemption Subject to subsection (e)(3), the Authority shall grant an exemption requested under paragraph (1) for the remainder of such period and shall allow the use of furosemide on covered horses in the applicable State, in accordance with the requested limitations.

(g) Baseline anti-doping and medication control rules

(1) In general Subject to paragraph (3), the baseline anti-doping and medication control rules described in paragraph (2) shall—

(A) constitute the initial rules of the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program; and

(B) except as exempted pursuant to subsections (e) and (f), remain in effect at all times after the program effective date.

(2) Baseline anti-doping medication control rules described

(A) In general The baseline anti-doping and medication control rules described in this paragraph are the following:

(i) The lists of permitted and prohibited substances (including drugs, medications, and naturally occurring substances and synthetically occurring substances) in effect for the International Federation of Horseracing Authorities, including the International Federation of Horseracing Authorities International Screening Limits for urine, dated May 2019, and the International Federation of Horseracing Authorities International Screening Limits for plasma, dated May 2019.

(ii) The World Anti-Doping Agency International Standard for Laboratories (version 10.0), dated November 12, 2019.

(iii) The Association of Racing Commissioners International out-of-competition testing standards, Model Rules of Racing (version 9.2).

(iv) The Association of Racing Commissioners International penalty and multiple medication violation rules, Model Rules of Racing (version 6.2).

(B) Conflict of rules In the case of a conflict among the rules described in subparagraph (A), the most stringent rule shall apply.

(3) Modifications to baseline rules

(A) Development by anti-doping and medication control standing committee The anti-doping and medication control standing committee, in consultation with the anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency, may develop and submit to the Authority for approval by the Authority proposed modifications to the baseline anti-doping and medication control rules.

(B) Authority approval If the Authority approves a proposed modification under this paragraph, the proposed modification shall be submitted to and considered by the Commission in accordance with [section 3053 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3053).

(C) Anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency veto authority The Authority shall not approve any proposed modification that renders an anti-doping and medication control rule less stringent than the baseline anti-doping and medication control rules described in paragraph (2) (including by increasing permitted medication thresholds, adding permitted medications, removing prohibited medications, or weakening enforcement mechanisms) without the approval of the anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title XII, § 1206](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tXII/s1206), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3263](/us/stat/134/3263).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(2), (b)(4), and (c)(4)(D), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title XII of div. FF of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
