---
title: "§ 17151. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17151"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17151"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title V, § 541](/us/pl/110/140/tV/s541), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1667](/us/stat/121/1667).)"
---
# § 17151. Definitions

##### § 17151. Definitions

(1) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means—

(A) a State;

(B) an eligible unit of local government; and

(C) an Indian tribe.

(2) Eligible unit of local government The term “eligible unit of local government” means—

(A) an eligible unit of local government-alternative 1; and

(B) an eligible unit of local government-alternative 2.

(3)

(A) Eligible unit of local government-alternative 1 The term “eligible unit of local government-alternative 1” means—

(i) a city with a population—

(I) of at least 35,000; or

(II) that causes the city to be 1 of the 10 highest-populated cities of the State in which the city is located; and

(ii) a county with a population—

(I) of at least 200,000; or

(II) that causes the county to be 1 of the 10 highest-populated counties of the State in which the county is located.

(B) Eligible unit of local government-alternative 2 The term “eligible unit of local government-alternative 2” means—

(i) a city with a population of at least 50,000; or

(ii) a county with a population of at least 200,000.

(4) Indian tribe The term “Indian tribe” has the meaning given the term in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(5) Program The term “program” means the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program established under [section 17152(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17152/a).

(6) State The term “State” means—

(A) a State;

(B) the District of Columbia;

(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and

(D) any other territory or possession of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title V, § 541](/us/pl/110/140/tV/s541), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1667](/us/stat/121/1667).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
