---
title: "§ 2123. Office of Travel Promotion"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–63, title II, § 202](/us/pl/87/63/tII/s202), as added [Pub. L. 111–145, § 9(i)](/us/pl/111/145/s9/i), formerly § 9(g), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 63](/us/stat/124/63); renumbered 9(i), [Pub. L. 113–235, div. B, title VI, § 606(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dB/tVI/s606/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2219](/us/stat/128/2219).)"
---
# § 2123. Office of Travel Promotion

##### § 2123. Office of Travel Promotion

(a) Office established There is established within the Department of Commerce an office to be known as the Office of Travel Promotion.

(b) Director

(1) Appointment The Office shall be headed by a Director who shall be appointed by the Secretary.

(2) Qualifications The Director shall be a citizen of the United States and have experience in a field directly related to the promotion of travel to and within the United States.

(3) Duties The Director shall be responsible for ensuring the office is carrying out its functions effectively and shall report to the Secretary.

(c) Functions The Office shall—

(1) serve as liaison to the Corporation for Travel Promotion established by subsection (b) of section 11 of the Travel Promotion Act of 2009 11 See References in Text note below. and support and encourage the development of programs to increase the number of international visitors to the United States for business, leisure, educational, medical, exchange, and other purposes;

(2) work with the Corporation, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security—

(A) to disseminate information more effectively to potential international visitors about documentation and procedures required for admission to the United States as a visitor;

(B) to ensure that arriving international visitors are generally welcomed with accurate information and in an inviting manner;

(C) to collect accurate data on the total number of international visitors that visit each State; and

(D) enhance the entry and departure experience for international visitors through the use of advertising, signage, and customer service; and

(3) support State, regional, and private sector initiatives to promote travel to and within the United States.

(d) Reports to Congress Within a year after March 4, 2010, and periodically thereafter as appropriate, the Secretary shall transmit a report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce, the House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security, and the House of Representatives Committee on Foreign Affairs describing the Office’s work with the Corporation, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security to carry out subsection (c)(2).

*([Pub. L. 87–63, title II, § 202](/us/pl/87/63/tII/s202), as added [Pub. L. 111–145, § 9(i)](/us/pl/111/145/s9/i), formerly § 9(g), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 63](/us/stat/124/63); renumbered 9(i), [Pub. L. 113–235, div. B, title VI, § 606(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dB/tVI/s606/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2219](/us/stat/128/2219).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subsection (b) of section 11 of the Travel Promotion Act of 2009, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), probably should be a reference to subsection (b) of the Travel Promotion Act of 2009, which is classified to [section 2131(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2131/b).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2123, [Pub. L. 87–63, title II, § 202](/us/pl/87/63/tII/s202), formerly § 3, June 29, 1961, [75 Stat. 130](/us/stat/75/130); [Pub. L. 91–477](/us/pl/91/477), §§ 1, 2, Oct. 21, 1970, [84 Stat. 1071](/us/stat/84/1071), 1072; renumbered and amended [Pub. L. 97–63, § 3(c)](/us/pl/97/63/s3/c), (d), (e)(1), Oct. 16, 1981, [95 Stat. 1012](/us/stat/95/1012), 1013; [Pub. L. 102–372](/us/pl/102/372), §§ 4(n), 6(b), (c), 7, 8(b), Sept. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 1174](/us/stat/106/1174), 1176, 1178, enumerated duties of Secretary of Commerce in carrying out national tourism policy, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 104–288, § 9(a)](/us/pl/104/288/s9/a), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3407](/us/stat/110/3407).
