---
title: "§ 12721. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12721"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12721"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 202](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s202), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4094](/us/stat/104/4094).)"
---
# § 12721. Findings

##### § 12721. Findings

(1) the Nation has not made adequate progress toward the goal of national housing policy, as set out in the Housing Act of 1949 [[42 U.S.C. 1441](/us/usc/t42/s1441) et seq.] and reaffirmed in the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, which would provide decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable living environments for all Americans;

(2) the supply of affordable rental housing is diminishing;

(3) the Tax Reform Act of 1986 removed major tax incentives for the production of affordable rental housing;

(4) the living environments of an increasing number of Americans have deteriorated over the past several years as a result of reductions in Federal assistance to low-income and moderate-income families;

(5) many Americans face the possibility of homelessness unless Federal, State, and local governments work together with the private sector to develop and rehabilitate the housing stock of the Nation to provide decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing for very low-income and low-income families;

(6) reliable Federal leadership is needed to achieve an adequate supply of affordable housing for all Americans;

(7) to achieve the goal of national housing policy, there is a need to strengthen nationwide a cost-effective community-based housing partnership designed to—

(A) expand the supply of rental housing that is affordable to very low-income and low-income families,

(B) improve homeownership opportunities for low-income families,

(C) carry out comprehensive housing strategies tailored to local housing market conditions, and

(D) protect the Federal, State, and local investment in low-income housing to ensure affordability of the housing for the remaining useful life of the property;

(8) direct assistance to expand the supply of affordable rental housing should be provided in a way that is more cost-effective and targeted than tax incentives;

(9) much of the Nation’s housing system works very well and provides a strong base on which national housing policy should build;

(10) an increasing number of States and local governments have been successful in producing cost-effective low-income and moderate-income housing by working in partnership with the private sector, including nonprofit community development corporations, community action agencies, neighborhood housing services corporations, trade unions, groups sponsored by religious organizations, limited equity cooperatives, and other tenant organizations;

(11) during the 1980’s, nonprofit community housing development organizations, despite severe obstacles caused by inadequate funding, have played an increasingly important role in the production and rehabilitation of affordable housing in communities across the Nation;

(12) additional financial resources and technical skills must be made available in local communities if the Nation is to mobilize the capacity of the private sector, including nonprofit community housing development organizations, to provide a more adequate supply of decent, safe, and sanitary housing that is affordable to very low-income, low-income, and moderate-income families and meets the need for large family units and other additional units that are available to very low-income families receiving rental assistance payments from Federal, State, and local governments; and

(13) the long-term success of efforts to provide more affordable housing depends upon tenants and homeowners being fiscally responsible and able managers.

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 202](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s202), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4094](/us/stat/104/4094).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Housing Act of 1949, referred to in par. (1), is [act July 15, 1949, ch. 338](/us/act/1949-07-15/ch338), [63 Stat. 413](/us/stat/63/413), which is classified principally to chapter 8A (§ 1441 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1441 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1441) and Tables.

The Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, referred to in par. (1), is [Pub. L. 90–448](/us/pl/90/448), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 476](/us/stat/82/476). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Amendments note set out under [section 1701 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1701), Banks and Banking, and Tables.

The Tax Reform Act of 1986, referred to in par. (3), is [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/100/2085). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1986 Amendments note set out under [section 1 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s1), Internal Revenue Code, and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of this subchapter as the “HOME Investment Partnerships Act”, see Short Title note set out under [section 12701 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12701).

#### Homelessness Assistance and Supportive Services Program

[Pub. L. 117–2, title III, § 3205](/us/pl/117/2/tIII/s3205), Mar. 11, 2021, [135 Stat. 61](/us/stat/135/61), provided that: “(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this section referred to as the ‘Secretary’) for fiscal year 2021, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, except that amounts authorized under subsection (d)(3) shall remain available until September 30, 2029, for assistance under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act ([42 U.S.C. 12721](/us/usc/t42/s12721) et seq.) for the following activities to primarily benefit qualifying individuals or families:“(1) Tenant-based rental assistance. “(2) The development and support of affordable housing pursuant to section 212(a) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act ([42 U.S.C. 12742(a)](/us/usc/t42/s12742/a)) (‘the Act’ herein). “(3) Supportive services to qualifying individuals or families not already receiving such supportive services, including—“(A) activities listed in section 401(29) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 11360(29)](/us/usc/t42/s11360/29)); “(B) housing counseling; and “(C) homeless prevention services. “(4) The acquisition and development of non-congregate shelter units, all or a portion of which may—“(A) be converted to permanent affordable housing; “(B) be used as emergency shelter under subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 11371–113](/us/usc/t42/s11371–113)78); “(C) be converted to permanent housing under subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 11381–113](/us/usc/t42/s11381–113)89); or “(D) remain as non-congregate shelter units. “(b) Qualifying Individuals or Families Defined.—For the purposes of this section, qualifying individuals or families are those who are—“(1) homeless, as defined in section 103(a) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 11302(a)](/us/usc/t42/s11302/a)); “(2) at-risk of homelessness, as defined in section 401(1) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 11360(1)](/us/usc/t42/s11360/1)); “(3) fleeing, or attempting to flee, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or human trafficking, as defined by the Secretary; “(4) in other populations where providing supportive services or assistance under section 212(a) of the Act ([42 U.S.C. 12742(a)](/us/usc/t42/s12742/a)) would prevent the family’s homelessness or would serve those with the greatest risk of housing instability; or “(5) veterans and families that include a veteran family member that meet one of the preceding criteria. “(c) Terms and Conditions.—“(1) Funding restrictions.—The cost limits in section 212(e) ([42 U.S.C. 12742(e)](/us/usc/t42/s12742/e)), the commitment requirements in section 218(g) ([42 U.S.C. 12748(g)](/us/usc/t42/s12748/g)), the matching requirements in section 220 ([42 U.S.C. 12750](/us/usc/t42/s12750)), and the set-aside for housing developed, sponsored, or owned by community housing development organizations required in section 231 of the Act ([42 U.S.C. 12771](/us/usc/t42/s12771)) shall not apply for amounts made available in this section. “(2) Administrative costs.— Notwithstanding sections 212(c) and (d)(1) of the Act ([42 U.S.C. 12742(c)](/us/usc/t42/s12742/c) and (d)(1)), of the funds made available in this section for carrying out activities authorized in this section, a grantee may use up to fifteen percent of its allocation for administrative and planning costs. “(3) Operating expenses.—Notwithstanding sections 212(a) and (g) of the Act ([42 U.S.C. 12742(a)](/us/usc/t42/s12742/a) and (g)), a grantee may use up to an additional five percent of its allocation for the payment of operating expenses of community housing development organizations and nonprofit organizations carrying out activities authorized under this section, but only if—“(A) such funds are used to develop the capacity of the community housing development organization or nonprofit organization in the jurisdiction or insular area to carry out activities authorized under this section; and “(B) the community housing development organization or nonprofit organization complies with the limitation on assistance in section 234(b) of the Act ([42 U.S.C. 12774(b)](/us/usc/t42/s12774/b)). “(4) Contracting.—A grantee, when contracting with service providers engaged directly in the provision of services under paragraph [probably should be “subsection”] (a)(3), shall, to the extent practicable, enter into contracts in amounts that cover the actual total program costs and administrative overhead to provide the services contracted. “(d) Allocation.—“(1) Formula assistance.—Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary shall allocate amounts made available under this section pursuant to section 217 of the Act ([42 U.S.C. 12747](/us/usc/t42/s12747)) to grantees that received allocations pursuant to that same formula in fiscal year 2021, and shall make such allocations within 30 days of enactment of this Act [Mar. 11, 2021]. “(2) Technical assistance.—Up to $25,000,000 of the amounts made available under this section shall be used, without competition, to make new awards or increase prior awards to existing technical assistance providers to provide an immediate increase in capacity building and technical assistance available to any grantees implementing activities or projects consistent with this section. “(3) Other costs.—Up to $50,000,000 of the amounts made available under this section shall be used for the administrative costs to oversee and administer implementation of this section and the HOME program [[42 U.S.C. 12721](/us/usc/t42/s12721) et seq.] generally, including information technology, financial reporting, and other costs. “(4) Waivers or alternative requirements.—The Secretary may waive or specify alternative requirements for any provision of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act ([42 U.S.C. 12701](/us/usc/t42/s12701) et seq.) and titles I and IV of the McKinney-Vento Homelessness Act [probably means McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act] ([42 U.S.C. 11301](/us/usc/t42/s11301) et seq., 11360 et seq.) or regulation for the administration of the amounts made available under this section other than requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment, upon a finding that the waiver or alternative requirement is necessary to expedite or facilitate the use of amounts made available under this section.”
