---
title: "§ 4217. Embezzlement of fees or of effects of American citizens"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4217"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4217"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 1734; [Dec. 21, 1898, ch. 36, § 3](/us/act/1898-12-21/ch36/s3), [30 Stat. 771](/us/stat/30/771).)"
---
# § 4217. Embezzlement of fees or of effects of American citizens

##### § 4217. Embezzlement of fees or of effects of American citizens

Every consular officer who willfully neglects to render true and just quarterly accounts and returns of the business of his office, and of moneys received by him for the use of the United States, or who neglects to pay over any balance of said moneys due to the United States at the expiration of any quarter, before the expiration of the next succeeding quarter, or who shall receive money, property, or effects belonging to a citizen of the United States and shall not within a reasonable time after demand made upon him by the Secretary of State or by such citizen, his executor, administrator, or legal representative, account for and pay over all moneys, property, and effects, less his lawful fees, due to such citizen, shall be deemed guilty of embezzlement, and shall be punishable by imprisonment for not more than five years, and by a fine of not more than $2,000.

*(R.S. § 1734; [Dec. 21, 1898, ch. 36, § 3](/us/act/1898-12-21/ch36/s3), [30 Stat. 771](/us/stat/30/771).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 1734 derived from [act Mar. 3, 1869, ch. 125, § 5](/us/act/1869-03-03/ch125/s5), [15 Stat. 322](/us/stat/15/322).

Section was not enacted as part of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 1198 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1198), and prior thereto to [section 102 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s102).
