---
title: "§ 7459. Mixed-funded athletic and recreational extracurricular programs: authority to manage appropriated funds in same manner as nonappropriated funds"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7459"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7459"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, § 544(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tV/s544/a/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1906](/us/stat/118/1906), § 4359; renumbered § 7459, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/c/1), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)"
---
# § 7459. Mixed-funded athletic and recreational extracurricular programs: authority to manage appropriated funds in same manner as nonappropriated funds

##### § 7459. Mixed-funded athletic and recreational extracurricular programs: authority to manage appropriated funds in same manner as nonappropriated funds

(a) Authority.— In the case of an Academy mixed-funded athletic or recreational extracurricular program, the Secretary of the Army may designate funds appropriated to the Department of the Army and available for that program to be treated as nonappropriated funds and expended for that program in accordance with laws applicable to the expenditure of nonappropriated funds. Appropriated funds so designated shall be considered to be nonappropriated funds for all purposes and shall remain available until expended.

(b) Covered Programs.— In this section, the term “Academy mixed-funded athletic or recreational extracurricular program” means an athletic or recreational extracurricular program of the Academy to which each of the following applies:

(1) The program is not considered a morale, welfare, or recreation program.

(2) The program is supported through appropriated funds.

(3) The program is supported by a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.

(4) The program is not a private organization and is not operated by a private organization.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, § 544(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tV/s544/a/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1906](/us/stat/118/1906), § 4359; renumbered § 7459, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/c/1), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 4359 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4359) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, § 544(d)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tV/s544/d), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1907](/us/stat/118/1907), provided that: “Sections 4359, 6978, and 9359 [now 7459, 8478, and 9459] of title 10, United States Code, shall apply only with respect to funds appropriated for fiscal years after fiscal year 2004.”
