---
title: "§ 11182. Administrative authority"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11182"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11182"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 299A](/us/pl/93/415/tII/s299A), formerly § 262, Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1129](/us/stat/88/1129); [Pub. L. 95–115, § 6(c)](/us/pl/95/115/s6/c), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1058](/us/stat/91/1058); [Pub. L. 96–509, § 16](/us/pl/96/509/s16), Dec. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 2761](/us/stat/94/2761); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 641](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s641), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2122](/us/stat/98/2122); renumbered § 292, [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7266(3)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI"
---
# § 11182. Administrative authority

##### § 11182. Administrative authority

(a) Authority of Administrator The Office shall be administered by the Administrator under the general authority of the Attorney General.

(b) Certain crime control provisions applicable Sections 10228(c), 10230(a), 10230(b), 10230(c), 10231(a), 10231(b), and 10231(d) of this title, shall apply with respect to the administration of and compliance with this chapter, except that for purposes of this chapter—

(1) any reference to the Office of Justice Programs in such sections shall be deemed to be a reference to the Assistant Attorney General who heads the Office of Justice Programs; and

(2) the term “this chapter” as it appears in such sections shall be deemed to be a reference to this chapter.

(c) Certain other crime control provisions applicable Sections 10221(a), 10221(c), and 10225 of this title shall apply with respect to the administration of and compliance with this chapter, except that for purposes of this chapter—

(1) any reference to the Attorney General, the Assistant Attorney General who heads the Office of Justice Programs, the Director of the National Institute of Justice, the Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, or the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall be deemed to be a reference to the Administrator;

(2) any reference to the Office of Justice Programs, the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, or the Bureau of Justice Statistics shall be deemed to be a reference to the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention; and

(3) the term “this chapter” as it appears in such sections shall be deemed to be a reference to this chapter.

(d) Rules, regulations, and procedures

(1) The Administrator is authorized to establish such rules, regulations, guidance, and procedures as are necessary for the exercise of the functions of the Office and only to the extent necessary to ensure that there is compliance with the specific requirements of this subchapter or to respond to requests for clarification and guidance relating to such compliance. In developing guidance and procedures, the Administrator shall consult with representatives of States and units of local government, including those individuals responsible for administration of this chapter and compliance with the core requirements.

(2) The Administrator shall ensure that—

(A) reporting, compliance reporting, State plan requirements, and other similar documentation as may be required from States is requested in a manner that respects confidentiality, encourages efficiency and reduces the duplication of reporting efforts; and

(B) States meeting all the core requirements are encouraged to experiment with offering innovative, data-driven programs designed to further improve the juvenile justice system.

(e) Presumption of State compliance If a State requires by law compliance with the core requirements, then for the period such law is in effect in such State such State shall be rebuttably presumed to satisfy such requirements.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 299A](/us/pl/93/415/tII/s299A), formerly § 262, Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1129](/us/stat/88/1129); [Pub. L. 95–115, § 6(c)](/us/pl/95/115/s6/c), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1058](/us/stat/91/1058); [Pub. L. 96–509, § 16](/us/pl/96/509/s16), Dec. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 2761](/us/stat/94/2761); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 641](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s641), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2122](/us/stat/98/2122); renumbered § 292, [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7266(3)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7266/3), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4449](/us/stat/102/4449); renumbered § 299A, [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(i)(1)(B)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/i/1/B), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5006](/us/stat/106/5006); [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12214](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12214), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1892](/us/stat/116/1892); [Pub. L. 115–385, title II, § 209](/us/pl/115/385/tII/s209), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5144](/us/stat/132/5144).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (b), (c), and (d)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1109](/us/stat/88/1109), known as the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1974 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5672 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5672), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 115–385, § 209(1)](/us/pl/115/385/s209/1), designated existing provisions as par. (1), struck out “, after appropriate consultation with representatives of States and units of local government,” after “Administrator is authorized”, inserted “guidance,” after “regulations,” and “In developing guidance and procedures, the Administrator shall consult with representatives of States and units of local government, including those individuals responsible for administration of this chapter and compliance with the core requirements.” at end, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 115–385, § 209(2)](/us/pl/115/385/s209/2), substituted “core requirements” for “requirements described in paragraphs (11), (12), and (13) of [section 11133(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11133/a)”.

2002—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 12214(1)](/us/pl/107/273/s12214/1), substituted “only to the extent necessary to ensure that there is compliance with the specific requirements of this subchapter or to respond to requests for clarification and guidance relating to such compliance” for “as are consistent with the purpose of this chapter”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 12214(2)](/us/pl/107/273/s12214/2), added subsec. (e).

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending subsec. (a) generally, substituted provisions setting forth the administrative authority of the Office for former provisions which incorporated other administrative provisions into this chapter as well as construing certain references as authorizing the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention to perform the same actions as other officials.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending subsec. (b) generally, substituted provisions relating to the applicability of other provisions to this chapter as well as defining certain references therein for former provisions which directed the Office of Justice Assistance, Research and Statistics to provide staff support and coordinate the activities of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending section generally, added subsecs. (c) and (d).

1980—[Pub. L. 96–509](/us/pl/96/509) brought relevant applicable administrative provisions of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 into conformance subsequent to the Justice System Improvement Amendments of 1979 and provided that the Office of Justice Assistance, Research, and Statistics provide staff support to, and coordinate the activities of the Office in the same manner as it does for the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, National Institute of Justice, and Bureau of Justice Statistics pursuant to former [section 3781(b) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3781/b).

1977—[Pub. L. 95–115](/us/pl/95/115) substituted provisions setting forth applicability of specified statutory requirements, for provisions setting forth prohibitions against discrimination and required terms in grants, contracts, and agreements and enforcement procedures thereof.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385) not applicable with respect to funds appropriated for any fiscal year that begins before Dec. 21, 2018, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385/s3), set out as a note under [section 11102 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11102).

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273) effective on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, and applicable only with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, see [section 12223 of Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273/s12223), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 670(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s670/a), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–115](/us/pl/95/115) effective Oct. 1, 1977, see [section 263(c) of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s263/c), as added by [section 6(d)(2) of Pub. L. 95–115](/us/pl/95/115/s6/d/2) and repealed by [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7266(2)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7266/2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4449](/us/stat/102/4449), formerly set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).
