---
title: "§ 11312. Duties and functions of the Administrator"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11312"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11312"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title V, § 503](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s503), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12222(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12222/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/116/1894); amended [Pub. L. 115–385, title III, § 303](/us/pl/115/385/tIII/s303), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5147](/us/stat/132/5147).)"
---
# § 11312. Duties and functions of the Administrator

##### § 11312. Duties and functions of the Administrator

(1) make such arrangements as are necessary and appropriate to facilitate coordination and policy development among all activities funded through the Department of Justice relating to delinquency prevention (including the preparation of an annual comprehensive plan for facilitating such coordination and policy development);

(2) provide adequate staff and resources necessary to properly carry out this subchapter; and

(3) not later than 180 days after the end of each fiscal year, submit a report to the chairman of the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate—

(A) describing activities and accomplishments of grant activities funded under this subchapter;

(B) describing procedures followed to disseminate grant activity products and research findings;

(C) describing activities conducted to develop policy and to coordinate Federal agency and interagency efforts related to delinquency prevention; and

(D) identifying successful approaches and making recommendations for future activities to be conducted under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title V, § 503](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s503), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12222(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12222/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/116/1894); amended [Pub. L. 115–385, title III, § 303](/us/pl/115/385/tIII/s303), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5147](/us/stat/132/5147).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5782 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5782), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 503 of title V of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s503), as added [Pub. L. 102–586, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/586/s5/a), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5027](/us/stat/106/5027), defined “State advisory group”, prior to the general amendment of title V of [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415) by [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273).

Another prior [section 503 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s503), title V, Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/88/1135), amended [section 5033 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s5033), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–385, title III, § 307](/us/pl/115/385/tIII/s307), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5152](/us/stat/132/5152).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385) redesignated pars. (2) to (4) as (1) to (3), respectively, and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: “issue such rules as are necessary or appropriate to carry out this subchapter;”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385) not applicable with respect to funds appropriated for any fiscal year that begins before Dec. 21, 2018, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385/s3), set out as a note under [section 11102 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11102).
