---
title: "§ 20305. Grants for specialized technical assistance and training programs"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 214A](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s214A), formerly § 213, Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4793](/us/stat/104/4793); renumbered § 214A and amended [Pub. L. 102–586, § 6(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/586/s6/b/1), (d), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5029](/us/stat/106/5029), 5034; [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12221(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12221/b/1/B), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/116/1894); [Pub. L. 115–424, § 2(e)](/us/pl/115/424/s2/e), (h)(3), Jan. 7, 2019, [132 Stat. "
---
# § 20305. Grants for specialized technical assistance and training programs

##### § 20305. Grants for specialized technical assistance and training programs

(a) In general The Administrator shall make grants to national organizations to provide technical assistance and training to—

(1) prosecutors and other attorneys and allied professionals instrumental to the criminal prosecution of child abuse cases in State or Federal courts, for the purpose of improving the quality of criminal prosecution of such cases; and

(2) child abuse professionals instrumental to the protection of children, intervention in child abuse cases, and treatment of victims of child abuse, for the purpose of—

(A) improving the quality of such protection, intervention, and treatment; and

(B) promoting the effective delivery of the evidence-informed Children’s Advocacy Center Model and the multidisciplinary response to child abuse, including best practices in programmatic evaluation and financial oversight of Federal funding.

(b) Grantee organizations

(1) Prosecutors An organization to which a grant is made for specific training and technical assistance for prosecutors under subsection (a)(1) shall be one that has—

(A) a significant connection to prosecutors who handle child abuse cases in State courts, such as a membership organization or support service providers; and

(B) demonstrated experience in providing training and technical assistance for prosecutors.

(2) Child abuse professionals An organization to which a grant is made for specific training and technical assistance for child abuse professionals under subsection (a)(2) shall be one that has—

(A) a diverse portfolio of training and technical resources for the diverse professionals responding to child abuse, including a digital library to promote evidence-informed practice; and

(B) demonstrated experience in providing training and technical assistance for child abuse professionals, especially law enforcement officers, child protective service workers, prosecutors, forensic interviewers, medical professionals, victim advocates, and mental health professionals.

(c) Grant criteria

(1) The Administrator shall establish the criteria to be used for evaluating applications for grants under this section, consistent with sections 11183 and 11186 of this title.

(2) The grant criteria established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall require, in the case of a grant made under subsection (a)(1), that a program provide training and technical assistance that includes information regarding improved child interview techniques, thorough investigative methods, interagency coordination and effective presentation of evidence in court, including the use of alternative courtroom procedures described in this title.11 See References in Text note below.

*([Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 214A](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s214A), formerly § 213, Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4793](/us/stat/104/4793); renumbered § 214A and amended [Pub. L. 102–586, § 6(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/586/s6/b/1), (d), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5029](/us/stat/106/5029), 5034; [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12221(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12221/b/1/B), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/116/1894); [Pub. L. 115–424, § 2(e)](/us/pl/115/424/s2/e), (h)(3), Jan. 7, 2019, [132 Stat. 5469](/us/stat/132/5469), 5470; [Pub. L. 117–354, § 3(5)](/us/pl/117/354/s3/5), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6276](/us/stat/136/6276).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), means title II of [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647), known as the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see Short Title of 1990 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13003 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13003), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 117–354, § 3(5)(A)(i)](/us/pl/117/354/s3/5/A/i), substituted “prosecutors and other attorneys and allied” for “attorneys and other allied”.

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 117–354, § 3(5)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/117/354/s3/5/A/ii), inserted “Center” after “Advocacy”.

Subsec. (b)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 117–354, § 3(5)(B)](/us/pl/117/354/s3/5/B), added subpar. (A) and struck out former subpar. (A) which read as follows: “a broad representation of attorneys who prosecute criminal cases in State courts; and”.

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–424, § 2(e)(1)](/us/pl/115/424/s2/e/1), substituted “to—” and pars. (1) and (2) for “to attorneys and others instrumental to the criminal prosecution of child abuse cases in State or Federal courts, for the purpose of improving the quality of criminal prosecution of such cases.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–424, § 2(e)(2)](/us/pl/115/424/s2/e/2), added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “An organization to which a grant is made pursuant to subsection (a) shall be one that has, or is affiliated with one that has, broad membership among attorneys who prosecute criminal cases in State courts and has demonstrated experience in providing training and technical assistance for prosecutors.”

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–424, § 2(h)(3)](/us/pl/115/424/s2/h/3), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to sections 11183 and 11186 of this title.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 115–424, § 2(e)(3)](/us/pl/115/424/s2/e/3), inserted “, in the case of a grant made under subsection (a)(1),” after “shall require”.

2002—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273) substituted “sections 5673 and 5676 of this title” for “sections 5665a, 5673, and 5676 of this title”.

1992—Subsecs. (a), (c)(1). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 6(d)](/us/pl/102/586/s6/d), substituted “Administrator” for “Director”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273) effective on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, and applicable only with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, see [section 12223 of Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273/s12223), as amended, set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).
