---
title: "§ 80508. Amendments to Convention"
identifier: "USC-T46-S80508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section80508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 11](/us/pl/109/304/s11), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1697](/us/stat/120/1697).)"
---
# § 80508. Amendments to Convention

##### § 80508. Amendments to Convention

(a) Proposals by United States.— The Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, may propose amendments to the Convention or request a conference for amending the Convention as provided in article IX of the Convention.

(b) Proposals by Other Countries.— An amendment communicated to the United States under article IX(2) of the Convention may be accepted for the United States by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate. The President may declare that the United States does not accept an amendment.

(c) Amendments to Annexes.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating—

(A) may propose amendments to the annexes to the Convention;

(B) may propose a conference for amending annexes to the Convention; and

(C) shall consider and act on amendments to the annexes to the Convention adopted by the Maritime Safety Committee of the International Maritime Organization and communicated to the United States under article X(2) of the Convention.

(2) Action following approval or objection.— If a proposed amendment to an annex is approved by the United States, the amendment shall enter into force as provided in article X of the Convention. If a proposed amendment is objected to, the Secretary of State promptly shall communicate the objection as provided in article X(3) of the Convention.

(d) Appointment of Arbitrator.— The Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall appoint an arbitrator when one is required to resolve a dispute within the meaning of article XIII of the Convention.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 11](/us/pl/109/304/s11), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1697](/us/stat/120/1697).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 80508 | 46 App.:1507. | Pub. L. 95–208, § 8, Dec. 13, 1977, 91 Stat. 1479. |
