---
title: "§ 2635. Powers"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2635"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2635"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–3, title III, § 305](/us/pl/103/3/tIII/s305), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 25](/us/stat/107/25).)"
---
# § 2635. Powers

##### § 2635. Powers

(a) Meetings The Commission shall first meet not later than 30 days after the date on which all members are appointed, and the Commission shall meet thereafter on the call of the chairperson or a majority of the members.

(b) Hearings and sessions The Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission considers appropriate. The Commission may administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses appearing before it.

(c) Access to information The Commission may secure directly from any Federal agency information necessary to enable it to carry out this subchapter, if the information may be disclosed under [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552). Subject to the previous sentence, on the request of the chairperson or vice chairperson of the Commission, the head of such agency shall furnish such information to the Commission.

(d) Use of facilities and services Upon the request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency may make available to the Commission any of the facilities and services of such agency.

(e) Personnel from other agencies On the request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency may detail any of the personnel of such agency to serve as an Executive Director of the Commission or assist the Commission in carrying out the duties of the Commission. Any detail shall not interrupt or otherwise affect the civil service status or privileges of the Federal employee.

(f) Voluntary service Notwithstanding [section 1342 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1342), the chairperson of the Commission may accept for the Commission voluntary services provided by a member of the Commission.

*([Pub. L. 103–3, title III, § 305](/us/pl/103/3/tIII/s305), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 25](/us/stat/107/25).)*
