---
title: "§ 1383. Insurance of cotton; reconcentration"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1383"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1383"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30](/us/act/1938-02-16/ch30), title III, § 383, [52 Stat. 67](/us/stat/52/67).)"
---
# § 1383. Insurance of cotton; reconcentration

##### § 1383. Insurance of cotton; reconcentration

(a) The Commodity Credit Corporation shall place all insurance of every nature taken out by it on cotton, and all renewals, extensions, or continuations of existing insurance, with insurance agents who are bonafide residents of and doing business in the State where the cotton is warehoused: *Provided*, That such insurance may be secured at a cost not greater than similar insurance offered on said cotton elsewhere.

(b) Cotton held as security for any loan heretofore or hereafter made or arranged for by the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not hereafter be reconcentrated without the written consent of the producer or borrower.

*([Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30](/us/act/1938-02-16/ch30), title III, § 383, [52 Stat. 67](/us/stat/52/67).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Administration of program of Commodity Credit Corporation transferred to Secretary of Agriculture by 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 501, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7877, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Exceptions From Transfer of Functions

Functions of Corporations of Department of Agriculture, boards of directors and officers of such corporations; Advisory Board of Commodity Credit Corporation; and Farm Credit Administration or any agency, officer, or entity of, under, or subject to supervision of said Administration excepted from functions of officers, agencies, and employees transferred to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, effective June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2201).
