---
title: "§ 111. New Mexico"
identifier: "USC-T28-S111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 885](/us/stat/62/885).)"
---
# § 111. New Mexico

##### § 111. New Mexico

New Mexico constitutes one judicial district.

Court shall be held at Albuquerque, Las Cruces, Las Vegas, Roswell, Santa Fe, and Silver City.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 885](/us/stat/62/885).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 177 ([June 20, 1910, ch. 310, § 13](/us/act/1910-06-20/ch310/s13), [36 Stat. 565](/us/stat/36/565); [Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 149](/us/act/1921-03-04/ch149), [41 Stat. 1361](/us/stat/41/1361); [June 7, 1924, ch. 332](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch332), [43 Stat. 642](/us/stat/43/642)).

The reference to Raton as a place of holding court was omitted on advice of the clerk that court is no longer held there.

Provisions for furnishing rooms and accommodations at Las Vegas were omitted as obsolete upon advice of Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts that Federal accommodations are now available.

Provision for adjournment or continuance in case of insufficient business by orders made anywhere in the district was omitted as covered by [section 138 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s138).

Provisions for transfer of causes, civil or criminal, from one place of holding court to another were omitted. Such provisions, as to civil cases, are covered by [section 1404 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1404), and, as to criminal cases, are rendered unnecessary because of inherent power of the court, and Rules 18–20 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, relating to venue.

Provisions for appointment of deputy clerks and deputy marshals and maintenance of offices at various cities were omitted as covered by sections 541 [see 561], 542 [see 561], and 751 of this title.

The provision respecting court accommodations at Silver City was omitted as covered by [section 142 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s142).

Changes in arrangement and phraseology were made.
