---
title: "§ 1341. Rights and protections under Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; procedures for remedy of violations"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1341"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1341"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–1, title II, § 215](/us/pl/104/1/tII/s215), Jan. 23, 1995, [109 Stat. 16](/us/stat/109/16); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814); [Pub. L. 110–437, title IV, § 422(b)(4)](/us/pl/110/437/tIV/s422/b/4), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4996](/us/stat/122/4996); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. I, title I, § 153(a)(2)(D)](/us/pl/115/141/dI/tI/s153/a/2/D), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 785](/us/stat/132/785); [Pub. L. 115–397, title III, § 308(b)(9"
---
# § 1341. Rights and protections under Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; procedures for remedy of violations

##### § 1341. Rights and protections under Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; procedures for remedy of violations

(a) Occupational safety and health protections

(1) In general Each employing office and each covered employee shall comply with the provisions of section 5 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ([29 U.S.C. 654](/us/usc/t29/s654)).

(2) Definitions For purposes of the application under this section of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 [[29 U.S.C. 651](/us/usc/t29/s651) et seq.]—

(A) the term “employer” as used in such Act means an employing office;

(B) the term “employee” as used in such Act means a covered employee;

(C) the term “employing office” includes the Government Accountability Office and any entity listed in subsection (a) of [section 1331 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1331) that is responsible for correcting a violation of this section, irrespective of whether the entity has an employment relationship with any covered employee in any employing office in which such a violation occurs; and

(D) the term “employee” includes employees of the Government Accountability Office.

(b) Remedy The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) shall be an order to correct the violation, including such order as would be appropriate if issued under section 13(a) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ([29 U.S.C. 662(a)](/us/usc/t29/s662/a)).

(c) Procedures

(1) Requests for inspections Upon written request of any employing office or covered employee, the General Counsel shall exercise the authorities granted to the Secretary of Labor by subsections (a), (d), (e), and (f) of section 8 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ([29 U.S.C. 657(a)](/us/usc/t29/s657/a), (d), (e), and (f)) to inspect and investigate places of employment under the jurisdiction of employing offices.

(2) Citations, notices, and notifications For purposes of this section, the General Counsel shall exercise the authorities granted to the Secretary of Labor in sections 9 and 10 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ([29 U.S.C. 658](/us/usc/t29/s658) and 659), to issue—

(A) a citation or notice to any employing office responsible for correcting a violation of subsection (a); or

(B) a notification to any employing office that the General Counsel believes has failed to correct a violation for which a citation has been issued within the period permitted for its correction.

(3) Hearings and review If after issuing a citation or notification, the General Counsel determines that a violation has not been corrected, the General Counsel may file a complaint with the Office against the employing office named in the citation or notification. The complaint shall be submitted to a hearing officer for decision pursuant to subsections (b) through (h) of [section 1405 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1405), subject to review by the Board pursuant to [section 1406 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1406).

(4) Variance procedures An employing office may request from the Board an order granting a variance from a standard made applicable by this section. For the purposes of this section, the Board shall exercise the authorities granted to the Secretary of Labor in sections 6(b)(6) and 6(d) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ([29 U.S.C. 655(b)(6)](/us/usc/t29/s655/b/6) and 655(d)) to act on any employing office’s request for a variance. The Board shall refer the matter to a hearing officer pursuant to subsections (b) through (h) of [section 1405 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1405), subject to review by the Board pursuant to [section 1406 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1406).

(5) Judicial review The General Counsel or employing office aggrieved by a final decision of the Board under paragraph (3) or (4), may file a petition for review with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit pursuant to [section 1407 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1407).

(6) Compliance date If new appropriated funds are necessary to correct a violation of subsection (a) for which a citation is issued, or to comply with an order requiring correction of such a violation, correction or compliance shall take place as soon as possible, but not later than the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the citation is issued or the order requiring correction becomes final and not subject to further review.

(d) Regulations to implement section

(1) In general The Board shall, pursuant to [section 1384 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1384), issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsection (a) except to the extent that the Board may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section.

(3) Employing office responsible for correction The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall include a method of identifying, for purposes of this section and for different categories of violations of subsection (a), the employing office responsible for correction of a particular violation.

(e) Periodic inspections; report to Congress

(1) Periodic inspections On a regular basis, and at least once each Congress, the General Counsel, exercising the same authorities of the Secretary of Labor as under subsection (c)(1), shall conduct periodic inspections of all facilities of the House of Representatives, the Senate, the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services, the Capitol Police, the Congressional Budget Office, the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Office of the Attending Physician, the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights, the Office of Technology Assessment, the Library of Congress, and the Government Accountability Office to report on compliance with subsection (a).

(2) Report On the basis of each periodic inspection, the General Counsel shall prepare and submit a report—

(A) to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the Office of the Architect of the Capitol or other employing office responsible for correcting the violation of this section uncovered by such inspection, and

(B) containing the results of the periodic inspection, identifying the employing office responsible for correcting the violation of this section uncovered by such inspection, describing any steps necessary to correct any violation of this section, and assessing any risks to employee health and safety associated with any violation.

(3) Action after report If a report identifies any violation of this section, the General Counsel shall issue a citation or notice in accordance with subsection (c)(2)(A).

(4) Detailed personnel The Secretary of Labor may, on request of the Executive Director, detail to the Office such personnel as may be necessary to advise and assist the Office in carrying out its duties under this section.

(f) Initial period for study and corrective action The period from January 23, 1995, until December 31, 1996, shall be available to the Office of the Architect of the Capitol and other employing offices to identify any violations of subsection (a), to determine the costs of compliance, and to take any necessary corrective action to abate any violations. The Office shall assist the Office of the Architect of the Capitol and other employing offices by arranging for inspections and other technical assistance at their request. Prior to July 1, 1996, the General Counsel shall conduct a thorough inspection under subsection (e)(1) and shall submit the report under subsection (e)(2) for the One Hundred Fourth Congress.

(g) Effective date

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e)(3) shall be effective on January 1, 1997.

(2) Government Accountability Office and Library of Congress This section shall be effective with respect to the Government Accountability Office and the Library of Congress 1 year after transmission to the Congress of the study under [section 1371 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1371).

*([Pub. L. 104–1, title II, § 215](/us/pl/104/1/tII/s215), Jan. 23, 1995, [109 Stat. 16](/us/stat/109/16); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814); [Pub. L. 110–437, title IV, § 422(b)(4)](/us/pl/110/437/tIV/s422/b/4), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4996](/us/stat/122/4996); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. I, title I, § 153(a)(2)(D)](/us/pl/115/141/dI/tI/s153/a/2/D), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 785](/us/stat/132/785); [Pub. L. 115–397, title III, § 308(b)(9)](/us/pl/115/397/tIII/s308/b/9), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5326](/us/stat/132/5326).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [Pub. L. 91–596](/us/pl/91/596), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1590](/us/stat/84/1590), which is classified principally to chapter 15 (§ 651 et seq.) of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 651 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s651) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a)(2)(C). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 153(a)(2)(D)(i)](/us/pl/115/141/s153/a/2/D/i), struck out “, the Library of Congress,” after “the Government Accountability Office”.

Subsec. (a)(2)(D). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 153(a)(2)(D)(ii)](/us/pl/115/141/s153/a/2/D/ii), struck out “and the Library of Congress” after “the Government Accountability Office”.

Subsec. (e)(1). [Pub. L. 115–397](/us/pl/115/397) substituted “Office of Congressional Workplace Rights” for “Office of Compliance”.

2008—Subsec. (e)(1). [Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437) substituted “the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services,” for “the Capitol Guide Service,”.

2004—Subsecs. (a)(2)(C), (D), (e)(1) . [Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271) substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office”.

Subsec. (g)(2). [Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271) substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office” in heading and text.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–397](/us/pl/115/397) effective Dec. 21, 2018, and any reference to the Office of Compliance in any law, rule, regulation, or other official paper in effect as of such date to be considered to refer and apply to the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights, see [section 308(d) of Pub. L. 115–397](/us/pl/115/397/s308/d), set out as a note under [section 1381 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1381).

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437) effective first day of first pay period (applicable to employees transferred under [section 2241 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s2241)) on or after 30 days after Oct. 20, 2008, see [section 422(d) of Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437/s422/d), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1301).
