---
title: "§ 2271. Jurisdictions unaffected"
identifier: "USC-T2-S2271"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section2271"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–437, title V, § 501](/us/pl/110/437/tV/s501), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4997](/us/stat/122/4997).)"
---
# § 2271. Jurisdictions unaffected

##### § 2271. Jurisdictions unaffected

(a) Security jurisdiction unaffected Nothing in this chapter granting any authority to the Architect of the Capitol or Chief Executive Officer shall be construed to affect the exclusive jurisdiction of the Capitol Police, the Capitol Police Board, the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives to provide security for the Capitol, including the Capitol Visitor Center.

(b) Architect of the Capitol jurisdiction unaffected

(1) In general Nothing in this chapter granting any authority to the Chief Executive Officer shall be construed to affect the exclusive jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol for the care and superintendence of the Capitol Visitor Center. All maintenance services, groundskeeping services, improvements, alterations, additions, and repairs for the Capitol Visitor Center shall be made under the direction and supervision of the Architect, subject to the approval of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the House Office Building Commission as to matters of general policy.

(2) Omitted

*([Pub. L. 110–437, title V, § 501](/us/pl/110/437/tV/s501), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4997](/us/stat/122/4997).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4983](/us/stat/122/4983), known as the Capitol Visitor Center Act of 2008, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s2201) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 501 of Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437/s501). Subsec. (b)(2) of [section 501 of Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437/s501) repealed [section 1825 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1825).
