---
title: "§ 1305. Renewal or extension of agreement; participation of subsequent owner or operator in program"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–559, § 6](/us/pl/91/559/s6), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/84/1471).)"
---
# § 1305. Renewal or extension of agreement; participation of subsequent owner or operator in program

##### § 1305. Renewal or extension of agreement; participation of subsequent owner or operator in program

Any agreement may be renewed or extended at the end of the agreement period for an additional period of ten years by mutual agreement of the Secretary and the owner or operator, subject to any rate redetermination by the Secretary. If during the agreement period the owner or operator sells or otherwise divests himself of the ownership or right of occupancy of such land, the new owner or operator may continue such agreement under the same terms or conditions, or enter into a new agreement in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, including the provisions for renewal and adjustment of payment rates, or he may choose not to participate in such program.

*([Pub. L. 91–559, § 6](/us/pl/91/559/s6), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/84/1471).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### One-Year Extension of Agreements

[Pub. L. 103–393](/us/pl/103/393), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4105](/us/stat/108/4105), provided that: “SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘Water Bank Extension Act of 1994’. “SEC. 2. SPECIAL AUTHORITY TO EXTEND WATER BANK ACT AGREEMENTS.“(a) Subject to subsection (b), any agreement entered into under the Water Bank Act ([16 U.S.C. 1301](/us/usc/t16/s1301) et seq.) and due to expire on December 31, 1994, may be extended for 1 year under section 6 of the Water Bank Act ([16 U.S.C. 1305](/us/usc/t16/s1305)). “(b) The authority to extend Water Bank Act agreements under this Act may only be exercised to the extent that the amount available for obligation under the Wetlands Reserve Program ([16 U.S.C. 1637](/us/usc/t16/s1637) et seq.) [probably meant former [16 U.S.C. 3837](/us/usc/t16/s3837) et seq.], and the amount used for the extension of Water Bank Act agreements under subsection (a), does not exceed $93,200,000 as provided for the Wetlands Reserve Program under the Agricultural, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995 [[Pub. L. 103–330](/us/pl/103/330), [108 Stat. 2453](/us/stat/108/2453)].”
