---
title: "§ 7906. Prohibited uses of funds"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8526](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8526), formerly title IX, § 9526, as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/107/110/tIX/s901), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1982](/us/stat/115/1982); renumbered title VIII, § 8526, and amended [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII), §§ 8001(a)(6), 8022, Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2088](/us/stat/129/2088), 2089, 2112; [Pub. L. 117–159, div. A, title III, § 13401](/us/pl/117/159/dA/tIII/s13401), June 25, 2022, [136 Stat. 1338]"
---
# § 7906. Prohibited uses of funds

##### § 7906. Prohibited uses of funds

(1) for construction, renovation, or repair of any school facility, except as authorized under this chapter;

(2) for transportation unless otherwise authorized under this chapter;

(3) to develop or distribute materials, or operate programs or courses of instruction directed at youth, that are designed to promote or encourage sexual activity, whether homosexual or heterosexual;

(4) to distribute or to aid in the distribution by any organization of legally obscene materials to minors on school grounds;

(5) to provide sex education or HIV-prevention education in schools unless that instruction is age appropriate and includes the health benefits of abstinence;

(6) to operate a program of contraceptive distribution in schools; or

(7) for the provision to any person of a dangerous weapon, as defined in [section 930(g)(2) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s930/g/2), or training in the use of a dangerous weapon, except that this paragraph shall not apply to the use of funds under this chapter for activities carried out under programs authorized by this chapter that are otherwise permissible under such programs and that provide students with educational instruction or educational enrichment activities, such as archery, hunting, other shooting sports, or culinary arts.

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8526](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8526), formerly title IX, § 9526, as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/107/110/tIX/s901), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1982](/us/stat/115/1982); renumbered title VIII, § 8526, and amended [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII), §§ 8001(a)(6), 8022, Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2088](/us/stat/129/2088), 2089, 2112; [Pub. L. 117–159, div. A, title III, § 13401](/us/pl/117/159/dA/tIII/s13401), June 25, 2022, [136 Stat. 1338](/us/stat/136/1338); [Pub. L. 118–17, § 2](/us/pl/118/17/s2), Oct. 6, 2023, [137 Stat. 102](/us/stat/137/102).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7906, [Pub. L. 89–10, title IX, § 9206](/us/pl/89/10/tIX/s9206), as added [Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101](/us/pl/103/382/tI/s101), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 3800](/us/stat/108/3800), authorized grants for a Native Hawaiian higher education program, prior to the general amendment of former subchapter IX of this chapter by [Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110).

#### Amendments

2023—Par. (7). [Pub. L. 118–17](/us/pl/118/17) inserted before period at end “, except that this paragraph shall not apply to the use of funds under this chapter for activities carried out under programs authorized by this chapter that are otherwise permissible under such programs and that provide students with educational instruction or educational enrichment activities, such as archery, hunting, other shooting sports, or culinary arts”.

2022—Par. (7). [Pub. L. 117–159](/us/pl/117/159) added par. (7).

2015—[Pub. L. 114–95, § 8022](/us/pl/114/95/s8022), substituted “Prohibited uses of funds” for “General prohibitions” in section catchline, in subsec. (a), struck out “(a) Prohibition” before introductory provisions, substituted “No funds under this chapter may be used” for “None of the funds authorized under this chapter shall be used” in introductory provisions, added pars. (1) and (2) and redesignated former pars. (1) to (4) as (3) to (6), respectively, and struck out subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (b) read as follows: “Nothing in this section shall be construed to—

“(1) authorize an officer or employee of the Federal Government to mandate, direct, review, or control a State, local educational agency, or school’s instructional content, curriculum, and related activities;

“(2) limit the application of the General Education Provisions Act;

“(3) require the distribution of scientifically or medically false or inaccurate materials or to prohibit the distribution of scientifically or medically true or accurate materials; or

“(4) create any legally enforceable right.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95) effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as a note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
