---
title: "§ 8792. Imposition of sanctions with respect to the transfer of goods or technologies to Syria that are likely to be used to commit human rights abuses"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8792"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8792"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–158, title VII, § 703](/us/pl/112/158/tVII/s703), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/126/1266).)"
---
# § 8792. Imposition of sanctions with respect to the transfer of goods or technologies to Syria that are likely to be used to commit human rights abuses

##### § 8792. Imposition of sanctions with respect to the transfer of goods or technologies to Syria that are likely to be used to commit human rights abuses

(a) In general The President shall impose sanctions described in [section 8791(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8791/c) with respect to—

(1) each person on the list required by subsection (b); and

(2) any person that—

(A) is a successor entity to a person on the list;

(B) owns or controls a person on the list, if the person that owns or controls the person on the list had actual knowledge or should have known that the person on the list engaged in the activity described in subsection (b)(2) for which the person was included in the list; or

(C) is owned or controlled by, or under common ownership or control with, the person on the list, if the person owned or controlled by, or under common ownership or control with (as the case may be), the person on the list knowingly engaged in the activity described in subsection (b)(2) for which the person was included in the list.

(b) List

(1) In general Not later than 120 days after August 10, 2012, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of persons that the President determines have knowingly engaged in an activity described in paragraph (2) on or after August 10, 2012.

(2) Activity described

(A) In general A person engages in an activity described in this paragraph if the person—

(i) transfers, or facilitates the transfer of, goods or technologies described in subparagraph (C) to Syria; or

(ii) provides services with respect to goods or technologies described in subparagraph (C) after such goods or technologies are transferred to Syria.

(B) Applicability to contracts and other agreements A person engages in an activity described in subparagraph (A) without regard to whether the activity is carried out pursuant to a contract or other agreement entered into before, on, or after August 10, 2012.

(C) Goods or technologies described Goods or technologies described in this subparagraph are goods or technologies that the President determines are likely to be used by the Government of Syria or any of its agencies or instrumentalities to commit human rights abuses against the people of Syria, including—

(i) firearms or ammunition (as those terms are defined in [section 921 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s921)), rubber bullets, police batons, pepper or chemical sprays, stun grenades, electroshock weapons, tear gas, water cannons, or surveillance technology; or

(ii) sensitive technology.

(D) Sensitive technology defined

(i) In general For purposes of subparagraph (C), the term “sensitive technology” means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology, that the President determines is to be used specifically—

(I) to restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Syria; or

(II) to disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Syria.

(ii) Exception The term “sensitive technology” does not include information or informational materials the exportation of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to [section 1702(b)(3) of title 50](/us/usc/t50/s1702/b/3).

(3) Special rule to allow for termination of sanctionable activity The President shall not be required to include a person on the list required by paragraph (1) if the President certifies in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that—

(A) the person is no longer engaging in, or has taken significant verifiable steps toward stopping, the activity described in paragraph (2) for which the President would otherwise have included the person on the list; and

(B) the President has received reliable assurances that the person will not knowingly engage in any activity described in paragraph (2) in the future.

(4) Updates of list The President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an updated list under paragraph (1)—

(A) not later than 300 days after August 10, 2012, and every 180 days thereafter; and

(B) as new information becomes available.

(5) Form of report; public availability

(A) Form The list required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.

(B) Public availability The unclassified portion of the list required by paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public and posted on the websites of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State.

*([Pub. L. 112–158, title VII, § 703](/us/pl/112/158/tVII/s703), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/126/1266).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section, see [section 8795 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8795).
