---
title: "§ 18952. Standards development organization grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18952"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18952"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title II, § 10248](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tII/s10248), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1495](/us/stat/136/1495).)"
---
# § 18952. Standards development organization grants

##### § 18952. Standards development organization grants

(a) Nongovernmental standards development organization defined In this section, the term “nongovernmental standards development organization” means a nongovernmental standards development organization (as defined in section 2(e) of the Office of Management and Budget Circular A–119 (relating to Federal participation in the development and use of voluntary consensus standards in conformity assessment activities), or any successor document) that adheres to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Essential Requirements for Due Process for American National Standards.

(b) Grant authority The Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director, shall establish a competitive program of grants for nongovernmental standards development organizations for the purposes described in subsection (c).

(c) Purposes A grant awarded under subsection (b) shall be used to develop, approve, disseminate, maintain, and review forensic science voluntary consensus standards and best practices that shall be available to the public free of charge.

(d) Additional requirements The Director may promulgate such requirements, guidelines, and procedures as may be necessary to carry out this section.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title II, § 10248](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tII/s10248), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1495](/us/stat/136/1495).)*
