---
title: "§ 3683. Uniform rates for books; films; other materials"
identifier: "USC-T39-S3683"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section3683"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 765](/us/stat/84/765); [Pub. L. 94–421, § 12](/us/pl/94/421/s12), Sept. 24, 1976, [90 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/90/1312); [Pub. L. 103–123, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/103/123/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 28, 1993, [107 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/107/1272).)"
---
# § 3683. Uniform rates for books; films; other materials

##### § 3683. Uniform rates for books; films; other materials

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the rates of postage established for mail matter enumerated in former [section 4554 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s4554) shall be uniform for such mail of the same weight, and shall not vary with the distance transported.

(b) The rates of postage under former [section 4554(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t39/s4554/b/1) shall not be effective except with respect to mailings which—

(1) constitute materials specified in former [section 4554(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t39/s4554/b/2); and

(2) are sent between—

(A) an institution, organization, or association listed in subparagraph (A) or (B) of such former section 4554(b)(1) and any other such institution, organization, or association;

(B) an institution, organization, or association referred to in subparagraph (A) and any individual (other than an individual having a financial interest in the sale, promotion, or distribution of the materials involved);

(C) an institution, organization, or association referred to in subparagraph (A) and a qualified nonprofit organization (as defined in former [section 4452(d) of this title](/us/usc/t39/s4452/d)) that is not such an institution, organization, or association; or

(D) an institution, organization, or association referred to in subparagraph (A) and a publisher, if such institution, organization, or association has placed an order to purchase such materials for delivery to such institution, organization, or association.

*([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 765](/us/stat/84/765); [Pub. L. 94–421, § 12](/us/pl/94/421/s12), Sept. 24, 1976, [90 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/90/1312); [Pub. L. 103–123, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/103/123/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 28, 1993, [107 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/107/1272).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Former sections 4452 and 4554 of this title, referred to in text, mean sections 4452 and 4554 of former Title 39, The Postal Service, prior to the general revision and reenactment of Title 39 by [Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 719](/us/stat/84/719).

#### Amendments

1993—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–123](/us/pl/103/123) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows: “The rates for mail matter specified in former section 4554(a)(1) or 4554(b)(2)(A) of this title, when mailed from a publisher or a distributor to a school, college, university, or library, shall be the rate currently in effect for such mail matter under the provisions of former [section 4554(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t39/s4554/b/1).”

1976—[Pub. L. 94–421](/us/pl/94/421) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1993 Amendment

[Pub. L. 103–123, title VII, § 706(b)](/us/pl/103/123/tVII/s706/b), Oct. 28, 1993, [107 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/107/1272), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to mail sent after September 30, 1993.”

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 20, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–10 of the Board of Governors. See [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375/s15/a), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s101).
