---
title: "§ 1152. Prohibitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1152"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1152"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–702, title I, § 102](/us/pl/89/702/tI/s102), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1091](/us/stat/80/1091); [Pub. L. 98–129, § 2](/us/pl/98/129/s2), Oct. 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 836](/us/stat/97/836); [Pub. L. 103–199, title VI, § 602(2)](/us/pl/103/199/tVI/s602/2), Dec. 17, 1993, [107 Stat. 2327](/us/stat/107/2327).)"
---
# § 1152. Prohibitions

##### § 1152. Prohibitions

It is unlawful, except as provided in this chapter or by regulation of the Secretary, for any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to engage in the taking of fur seals in the North Pacific Ocean or on lands or waters under the jurisdiction of the United States, or to use any port or harbor or other place under the jurisdiction of the United States for any purpose connected in any way with such taking, or for any person to transport, import, offer for sale, or possess at any port or place or on any vessel, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, fur seals or the parts thereof, including, but not limited to, raw, dressed, or dyed fur seal skins, taken contrary to the provisions of this chapter or the Convention, or for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to refuse to permit, except within the Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States, a duly authorized official of Canada, Japan, or Russia to board and search any vessel which is outfitted for the harvesting of living marine resources and which is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to determine whether such vessel is engaged in sealing contrary to the provisions of said Convention.

*([Pub. L. 89–702, title I, § 102](/us/pl/89/702/tI/s102), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1091](/us/stat/80/1091); [Pub. L. 98–129, § 2](/us/pl/98/129/s2), Oct. 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 836](/us/stat/97/836); [Pub. L. 103–199, title VI, § 602(2)](/us/pl/103/199/tVI/s602/2), Dec. 17, 1993, [107 Stat. 2327](/us/stat/107/2327).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—[Pub. L. 103–199](/us/pl/103/199) substituted “Russia” for “the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics”.

1983—[Pub. L. 98–129](/us/pl/98/129) amended section generally, substituting provisions enumerating the activities prohibited under this chapter, which were previously contained in [section 1151 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1151), for provisions authorizing sealing by Aleuts, Eskimos, and Indians. See [section 1153 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1153).
