---
title: "§ 604. Disposal of sand, peat moss, etc., in Alaska; contracts"
identifier: "USC-T30-S604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([July 31, 1947, ch. 406, § 4](/us/act/1947-07-31/ch406/s4), as added [Aug. 31, 1950, ch. 830](/us/act/1950-08-31/ch830), [64 Stat. 572](/us/stat/64/572).)"
---
# § 604. Disposal of sand, peat moss, etc., in Alaska; contracts

##### § 604. Disposal of sand, peat moss, etc., in Alaska; contracts

Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary may dispose of sand, stone, gravel, and vegetative materials located below highwater mark of navigable waters of the Territory of Alaska. Any contract, unexecuted in whole or in part, for the disposal under this subchapter of materials from land, title to which is transferred to a future State upon its admission to the Union, and which is situated within its boundaries, may be terminated or adopted by such State.

*([July 31, 1947, ch. 406, § 4](/us/act/1947-07-31/ch406/s4), as added [Aug. 31, 1950, ch. 830](/us/act/1950-08-31/ch830), [64 Stat. 572](/us/stat/64/572).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Secretary or other appropriate officer or entity in Departments of Agriculture and the Interior under this subchapter to Federal Inspector of Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see note set out under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s601).

#### Admission of Alaska as State

Admission of Alaska into the Union was accomplished Jan. 3, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3269, Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16, as required by sections 1 and 8(c) of [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 339](/us/stat/72/339), set out as notes preceding [section 21 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s21), Territories and Insular Possessions.
