---
title: "§ 2057a. Banning of butyl nitrite"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2057a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2057a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–690, title II, § 2404](/us/pl/100/690/tII/s2404), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4231](/us/stat/102/4231).)"
---
# § 2057a. Banning of butyl nitrite

##### § 2057a. Banning of butyl nitrite

(a) In general Except as provided in subsection (b), butyl nitrite shall be considered a banned hazardous product under [section 2057 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2057).

(b) Lawful purposes For the purposes of [section 2057 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2057), it shall not be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, offer for sale, distribute in commerce, or import into the United States butyl nitrite for any commercial purpose or any other purpose approved under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 301](/us/usc/t21/s301) et seq.].

(c) Definitions For purposes of this section:

(1) The term “butyl nitrite” includes n-butyl nitrite, isobutyl nitrite, secondary butyl nitrite, tertiary butyl nitrite, and mixtures containing these chemicals.

(2) The term “commercial purpose” means any commercial purpose other than for the production of consumer products containing butyl nitrite that may be used for inhaling or otherwise introducing butyl nitrite into the human body for euphoric or physical effects.

(d) Effective date This section shall take effect 90 days after November 18, 1988.

*([Pub. L. 100–690, title II, § 2404](/us/pl/100/690/tII/s2404), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4231](/us/stat/102/4231).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act June 25, 1938, ch. 675](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675), [52 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/52/1040), which is classified generally to chapter 9 (§ 301 et seq.) of Title 21, Food and Drugs. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 301 of Title 21](/us/usc/t21/s301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, and not as part of the Consumer Product Safety Act which comprises this chapter.
