---
title: "§ 1281. Omitted"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1281"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1281"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
---
# § 1281. Omitted

##### § 1281. Omitted

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section, [act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, § 231](/us/act/1946-04-30/ch244/tII/s231), [60 Stat. 148](/us/stat/60/148), which provided that certain Philippine citizens be granted non-quota status, was omitted on authority of former [section 1345 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1345) which nullified subchapter I of this chapter upon the expiration of the revised agreement between the United States and the Republic of the Philippines which occurred on July 4, 1974.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Philippine Traders as Nonimmigrants

Philippine traders as classifiable as nonimmigrants, see [section 1184a of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1184a), Aliens and Nationality.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Proc. No. 2696. Immigration Quota

Proc. No. 2696, July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7517, [60 Stat. 1353](/us/stat/60/1353), provided:

The annual quota for the Philippine Islands effective July 4, 1946, for the remainder of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1947, and for each fiscal year thereafter, has been determined in accordance with the law to be, and shall be, 100.

The immigration quota of 50 authorized by section 8(a)(1) of the Act approved March 24, 1934, entitled “An Act to provide for the complete independence of the Philippine Islands, to provide for the adoption of a constitution and a form of government for the Philippine Islands, and for other purposes” ([48 Stat. 462](/us/stat/48/462); [53 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/53/1230); [section 1238 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1238), Territories and Insular Possessions), which Act was accepted by concurrent resolution of the Philippine Legislature on May 1, 1934, and which became effective on that date, will become inoperative on July 4, 1946, the date the Government of the United States recognizes the independence of the Philippine Islands as a separate and self-governing nation.

The immigration quota assigned to the Philippine Islands is designed solely for purposes of compliance with the pertinent provisions of the Immigration Act of 1924 [section 145 et seq. of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality] and is not to be regarded as having any significance extraneous to this subject.
