---
title: "§ 1513. Deployment, storage, and disposal; notification to host country and Congress; international law violations; reports to Congress and international organizations"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1513"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1513"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–121, title IV, § 409(c)](/us/pl/91/121/tIV/s409/c), Nov. 19, 1969, [83 Stat. 210](/us/stat/83/210); [Pub. L. 91–441, title V, § 506(b)(2)](/us/pl/91/441/tV/s506/b/2), (3), Oct. 7, 1970, [84 Stat. 912](/us/stat/84/912).)"
---
# § 1513. Deployment, storage, and disposal; notification to host country and Congress; international law violations; reports to Congress and international organizations

##### § 1513. Deployment, storage, and disposal; notification to host country and Congress; international law violations; reports to Congress and international organizations

(1) None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or any other Act may be used for the future deployment, storage, or disposal, at any place outside the United States of—

unless prior notice of such deployment, storage, or disposal has been given to the country exercising jurisdiction over such place. In the case of any place outside the United States which is under the jurisdiction or control of the United States Government, no such action may be taken unless the Secretary gives prior notice of such action to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. As used in this paragraph, the term “United States” means the several States and the District of Columbia.

(A) any lethal chemical or any biological warfare agent, or

(B) any delivery system specifically designed to disseminate any such agent,

(2) None of the funds authorized by this Act or any other Act shall be used for the future testing, development, transportation, storage, or disposal of any lethal chemical or any biological warfare agent outside the United States, or for the disposal of any munitions in international waters, if the Secretary of State, after appropriate notice by the Secretary whenever any such action is contemplated, determines that such testing, development, transportation, storage, or disposal will violate international law. The Secretary of State shall report all determinations made by him under this paragraph to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to all appropriate international organizations, or organs thereof, in the event such report is required by treaty or other international agreement.

*([Pub. L. 91–121, title IV, § 409(c)](/us/pl/91/121/tIV/s409/c), Nov. 19, 1969, [83 Stat. 210](/us/stat/83/210); [Pub. L. 91–441, title V, § 506(b)(2)](/us/pl/91/441/tV/s506/b/2), (3), Oct. 7, 1970, [84 Stat. 912](/us/stat/84/912).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in pars. (1) and (2), means [Pub. L. 91–121](/us/pl/91/121), Nov. 19, 1969, [83 Stat. 204](/us/stat/83/204). Provisions authorizing the appropriation of funds are not classified to the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

1970—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 91–441, § 506(b)(2)](/us/pl/91/441/s506/b/2), inserted reference to disposal of lethal chemical or biological warfare agents or delivery systems for such agents.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 91–441, § 506(b)(3)](/us/pl/91/441/s506/b/3), inserted reference to disposal of munitions in international waters.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Withdrawal of European Chemical Stockpile

[Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title I, § 126](/us/pl/100/180/dA/tI/s126), Dec. 4, 1987, [101 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/101/1044), provided that: “Chemical munitions of the United States stored in Europe on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 1987] should not be removed from Europe unless such munitions are replaced contemporaneously with binary chemical munitions stationed on the soil of at least one European member nation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.”

#### Definitions

For definition of “United States” as used in this section, unless otherwise indicated, see [section 1514 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1514).

“Secretary” means the Secretary of Defense, see [section 1512(1) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1512/1).
