---
title: "§ 9707. Comprehensive program management plan"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–567, § 8](/us/pl/96/567/s8), Dec. 22, 1980, [94 Stat. 3332](/us/stat/94/3332); [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1051](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1051)(*l*), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 717](/us/stat/109/717).)"
---
# § 9707. Comprehensive program management plan

##### § 9707. Comprehensive program management plan

(a) Preparation; scope; consultative requirements The Secretary is authorized and directed to prepare a comprehensive program management plan for the conduct of research, development, and demonstration activities under this chapter consistent with the provisions of [section 9703 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9703). In the preparation of such plan, the Secretary shall consult with the Commission and the Advisory Committee and with the heads of such other Government agencies and such public and private organizations as he deems appropriate.

(b) Transmission to Congressional committees; revisions The Secretary shall transmit the comprehensive program management plan along with any comments by the Commission on the plan to the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate within twelve months after December 22, 1980. Revisions to the plan shall be transmitted to such committees whenever deemed appropriate by the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 96–567, § 8](/us/pl/96/567/s8), Dec. 22, 1980, [94 Stat. 3332](/us/stat/94/3332); [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1051](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1051)(*l*), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 717](/us/stat/109/717).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1995—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66) struck out subsec. (c) which directed Secretary of Energy to transmit to Congress, concurrently with submission of President’s annual budget to Congress, detailed description of comprehensive plan as then in effect.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain functions from Nuclear Regulatory Commission to Chairman thereof, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1980, 45 F.R. 40561, [94 Stat. 3585](/us/stat/94/3585), set out as a note under [section 5841 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5841).
