---
title: "§ 3616. Cooperation with State and local agencies administering fair housing laws; utilization of services and personnel; reimbursement; written agreements; publication in Federal Register"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3616"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3616"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–284, title VIII, § 817](/us/pl/90/284/tVIII/s817), formerly § 816, Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 89](/us/stat/82/89); renumbered § 817, [Pub. L. 100–430, § 8(1)](/us/pl/100/430/s8/1), Sept. 13, 1988, [102 Stat. 1625](/us/stat/102/1625).)"
---
# § 3616. Cooperation with State and local agencies administering fair housing laws; utilization of services and personnel; reimbursement; written agreements; publication in Federal Register

##### § 3616. Cooperation with State and local agencies administering fair housing laws; utilization of services and personnel; reimbursement; written agreements; publication in Federal Register

The Secretary may cooperate with State and local agencies charged with the administration of State and local fair housing laws and, with the consent of such agencies, utilize the services of such agencies and their employees and, notwithstanding any other provision of law, may reimburse such agencies and their employees for services rendered to assist him in carrying out this subchapter. In furtherance of such cooperative efforts, the Secretary may enter into written agreements with such State or local agencies. All agreements and terminations thereof shall be published in the Federal Register.

*([Pub. L. 90–284, title VIII, § 817](/us/pl/90/284/tVIII/s817), formerly § 816, Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 89](/us/stat/82/89); renumbered § 817, [Pub. L. 100–430, § 8(1)](/us/pl/100/430/s8/1), Sept. 13, 1988, [102 Stat. 1625](/us/stat/102/1625).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 817 of Pub. L. 90–284](/us/pl/90/284/s817) was renumbered section 818 and is classified to [section 3617 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3617).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Fair Housing Initiatives Program

[Pub. L. 100–242, title V, § 561](/us/pl/100/242/tV/s561), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1942](/us/stat/101/1942), as amended, which established a demonstration program on fair housing initiatives and was formerly set out as a note under this section, was transferred to [section 3616a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3616a).
