---
title: "§ 4629. Public works programs and projects of District of Columbia government and Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4629"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4629"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–646, title II, § 209](/us/pl/91/646/tII/s209), Jan. 2, 1971, [84 Stat. 1899](/us/stat/84/1899); [Pub. L. 93–198, title IV, § 421](/us/pl/93/198/tIV/s421), Dec. 24, 1973, [87 Stat. 789](/us/stat/87/789).)"
---
# § 4629. Public works programs and projects of District of Columbia government and Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority

##### § 4629. Public works programs and projects of District of Columbia government and Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority

Whenever real property is acquired by the government of the District of Columbia or the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority for a program or project which is not subject to sections 4630 and 4631 of this title, and such acquisition will result in the displacement of any person on or after January 2, 1971, the Mayor of the District of Columbia or the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, as the case may be, shall make all relocation payments and provide all assistance required of a Federal agency by this chapter. Whenever real property is acquired for such a program or project on or after such effective date, such Mayor or Authority, as the case may be, shall make all payments and meet all requirements prescribed for a Federal agency by subchapter III of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 91–646, title II, § 209](/us/pl/91/646/tII/s209), Jan. 2, 1971, [84 Stat. 1899](/us/stat/84/1899); [Pub. L. 93–198, title IV, § 421](/us/pl/93/198/tIV/s421), Dec. 24, 1973, [87 Stat. 789](/us/stat/87/789).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–646](/us/pl/91/646), Jan. 2, 1971, [84 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/84/1894), known as the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4601 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4601) and Tables.

Subchapter III of this chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “title III of this Act”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 91–646](/us/pl/91/646), Jan. 2, 1971, [84 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/84/1904), which enacted subchapter III of this chapter, repealed sections 3071 to 3073 of this title, [section 141 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s141), Highways, and [section 596 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s596), Navigation and Navigable Waters, and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 4651 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4651). For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Mayor” substituted for “Commissioner” pursuant to [section 421 of Pub. L. 93–198](/us/pl/93/198/s421), title IV, Dec. 24, 1973, [87 Stat. 789](/us/stat/87/789). Office of Commissioner of District of Columbia, as established by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1967, abolished as of noon Jan. 2, 1975, by [Pub. L. 93–198, title VII, § 711](/us/pl/93/198/tVII/s711), Dec. 24, 1973, [87 Stat. 818](/us/stat/87/818), and replaced by Office of Mayor of District of Columbia by [section 421 of Pub. L. 93–198](/us/pl/93/198/s421).
