---
title: "§ 80305. Exclusive right to emblems, badges, marks, and words"
identifier: "USC-T36-S80305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section80305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/112/1362).)"
---
# § 80305. Exclusive right to emblems, badges, marks, and words

##### § 80305. Exclusive right to emblems, badges, marks, and words

The corporation has the exclusive right to use all emblems and badges, descriptive or designating marks, and words or phrases the corporation adopts, including the badge of the Girl Scouts, Incorporated, referred to in the Act of August 12, 1937 (ch. 590, [50 Stat. 623](/us/stat/50/623)), and to authorize their use, during the life of the corporation, in connection with the manufacture, advertisement, and sale of equipment and merchandise. This section does not affect any vested rights.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/112/1362).)*

The word “sole” is omitted as included in “exclusive”. The words “to have” and “in carrying out its purposes” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “the corporation adopts” are substituted for “now or heretofore used by the old corporation and by its successor” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate obsolete language. (The term “old corporation” is defined in 36:31.) The words “in carrying out its program” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “including the badge of the Girl Scouts, Incorporated, referred to in the Act of August 12, 1937 (ch. 590, [50 Stat. 623](/us/stat/50/623)), and to authorize their use” are substituted for “including the sole and exclusive right to use, or to authorize the use of . . . the badge of the Girl Scouts, Incorporated, which is referred to in the Act of August 12, 1937 (Public, Numbered 259, Seventy-fifth Congress; [50 Stat. 623](/us/stat/50/623)), and all the other aforesaid emblems and badges, descriptive or designating marks, and words or phrases” to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 80305 | 36:36. | Mar. 16, 1950, ch. 62, § 6, 64 Stat. 24; Aug. 17, 1951, ch. 328, 65 Stat. 192. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of August 12, 1937 (ch. 590, [50 Stat. 623](/us/stat/50/623)), referred to in text, is not classified to the Code.
