---
title: "§ 10421. Grant authorization"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10421"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10421"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1901](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1901), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 32101(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s32101/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1898](/us/stat/108/1898); amended [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII), §§ 2101, 2102(1), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1792](/us/stat/116/1792); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, § 14012](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tXIV/s14012), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1297](/us/stat/130/1297).)"
---
# § 10421. Grant authorization

##### § 10421. Grant authorization

(a) In general The Attorney General may make grants under this subchapter to States, for use by States and units of local government for the purpose of—

(1) developing and implementing residential substance abuse treatment programs within State correctional facilities, as well as within local correctional and detention facilities in which inmates are incarcerated for a period of time sufficient to permit substance abuse treatment;

(2) encouraging the establishment and maintenance of drug-free prisons and jails; and

(3) developing and implementing specialized residential substance abuse treatment programs that identify and provide appropriate treatment to inmates with co-occurring mental health and substance abuse disorders or challenges.

(b) Consultation The Attorney General shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to ensure that projects of substance abuse treatment and related services for State prisoners incorporate applicable components of existing comprehensive approaches including relapse prevention and aftercare services.

(c) Additional use of funds States that demonstrate that they have existing in-prison drug treatment programs that are in compliance with Federal requirements may use funds awarded under this subchapter for treatment and sanctions both during incarceration and after release.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1901](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1901), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 32101(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s32101/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1898](/us/stat/108/1898); amended [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII), §§ 2101, 2102(1), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1792](/us/stat/116/1792); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, § 14012](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tXIV/s14012), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1297](/us/stat/130/1297).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796ff of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796ff), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 1901 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s1901) was renumbered section 2601 and is classified to [section 10541 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10541).

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 114–255](/us/pl/114/255) added par. (3).

2002—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 2102(1)](/us/pl/107/273/s2102/1), substituted “purpose of—” for “purpose of”, inserted par. (1) designation before “developing”, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 2101](/us/pl/107/273/s2101), added subsec. (c).
