---
title: "§ 300x–59. Plans for performance partnerships"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300x–59"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300x–59"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1949, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s203/a), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 408](/us/stat/106/408); amended [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIV, § 3403(a)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXIV/s3403/a), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1219](/us/stat/114/1219); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1241(a)(11)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1241/a/11), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5678](/us/stat/136/5678).)"
---
# § 300x–59. Plans for performance partnerships

##### § 300x–59. Plans for performance partnerships

(a) Development The Secretary in conjunction with States and other interested groups shall develop separate plans for the programs authorized under subparts I and II for creating more flexibility for States and accountability based on outcome and other performance measures. The plans shall each include—

(1) a description of the flexibility that would be given to the States under the plan;

(2) the common set of performance measures that would be used for accountability, including measures that would be used for the program under subpart II for pregnant addicts, HIV transmission, tuberculosis, and those with a co-occurring substance use disorders and mental disorders, and for programs under subpart I for children with serious emotional disturbance and adults with serious mental illness and for individuals with co-occurring mental health and substance use disorders disorders; 11 So in original.

(3) the definitions for the data elements to be used under the plan;

(4) the obstacles to implementation of the plan and the manner in which such obstacles would be resolved;

(5) the resources needed to implement the performance partnerships under the plan; and

(6) an implementation strategy complete with recommendations for any necessary legislation.

(b) Submission Not later than 2 years after October 17, 2000, the plans developed under subsection (a) shall be submitted to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives.

(c) Information As the elements of the plans described in subsection (a) are developed, States are encouraged to provide information to the Secretary on a voluntary basis.

(d) Participants The Secretary shall include among those interested groups that participate in the development of the plan consumers of mental health or substance use disorders services, providers, representatives of political divisions of States, and representatives of racial and ethnic groups including Native Americans.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1949, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s203/a), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 408](/us/stat/106/408); amended [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIV, § 3403(a)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXIV/s3403/a), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1219](/us/stat/114/1219); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1241(a)(11)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1241/a/11), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5678](/us/stat/136/5678).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

October 17, 2000, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “the date of the enactment of this Act”, which was translated as meaning the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 106–310](/us/pl/106/310), which amended this section generally, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsecs. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) substituted “substance use disorders” for “substance abuse” in two places.

Subsecs. (d). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) substituted “substance use disorders” for “substance abuse”.

2000—[Pub. L. 106–310](/us/pl/106/310) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Not later than January 24, 1994, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report on the activities of the States carried out pursuant to the programs established in sections 300x and 300x–21 of this title. Such report may include any recommendations of the Secretary for appropriate changes in legislation.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.
