---
title: "§ 230508. Restrictions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S230508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section230508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1487](/us/stat/112/1487).)"
---
# § 230508. Restrictions

##### § 230508. Restrictions

(a) Stock and Dividends.— The corporation may not issue stock or declare or pay a dividend.

(b) Distribution of Income or Assets.— The income or assets of the corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.

(c) Loans.— The corporation may not make a loan to a director, officer, or employee.

(d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.— The corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United States Government for any of its activities.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1487](/us/stat/112/1487).)*

In subsection (a), the words “any shares of” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), the words “No part of” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “inure to the benefit of” are substituted for “inure to”, the words “the charter granted by this chapter” are substituted for “this charter”, and the words “This subsection does not prevent” are substituted for “Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent”, for consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (d), the words “by virtue of this chapter” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 230508(a) | 36:3809(c). | May 23, 1986, Pub. L. 99–318, § 9, 100 Stat. 475. |
| 230508(b) | 36:3809(a). |  |
| 230508(c) | 36:3809(b). |  |
| 230508(d) | 36:3809(d). |  |
