---
title: "§ 635a–6. Periodic audits of bank transactions"
identifier: "USC-T12-S635a–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section635a–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–122, § 17](/us/pl/112/122/s17), May 30, 2012, [126 Stat. 359](/us/stat/126/359); [Pub. L. 114–94, div. E, title LI, § 51003](/us/pl/114/94/dE/tLI/s51003), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1763](/us/stat/129/1763).)"
---
# § 635a–6. Periodic audits of bank transactions

##### § 635a–6. Periodic audits of bank transactions

(a) In general Within 2 years after May 30, 2012, and periodically (but not less frequently than every 4 years) thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct an audit of the loan and guarantee transactions of the Export-Import Bank of the United States to determine the compliance of the Bank with the underwriting guidelines, lending policies, due diligence procedures, and content guidelines of the Bank.

(b) Review of fraud controls Not later than 4 years after December 4, 2015, and every 4 years thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall—

(1) review the adequacy of the design and effectiveness of the controls used by the Export-Import Bank of the United States to prevent, detect, and investigate fraudulent applications for loans and guarantees and the compliance by the Bank with the controls, including by auditing a sample of Bank transactions; and

(2) submit a written report regarding the findings of the review and providing such recommendations with respect to the controls described in paragraph (1) as the Comptroller General deems appropriate to—

(A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 112–122, § 17](/us/pl/112/122/s17), May 30, 2012, [126 Stat. 359](/us/stat/126/359); [Pub. L. 114–94, div. E, title LI, § 51003](/us/pl/114/94/dE/tLI/s51003), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1763](/us/stat/129/1763).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012, and not as part of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 which comprises this subchapter.

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Comptroller General of the United States shall review the adequacy of the design and effectiveness of the controls used by the Export-Import Bank of the United States to prevent, detect, and investigate fraudulent applications for loans and guarantees, including by auditing a sample of Bank transactions, and submit to the Congress a written report which contains such recommendations with respect to the controls as the Comptroller General deems appropriate.”
