---
title: "§ 16411. Workforce trends and traineeship grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16411"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16411"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/109/58/tXI/s1101), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 937](/us/stat/119/937).)"
---
# § 16411. Workforce trends and traineeship grants

##### § 16411. Workforce trends and traineeship grants

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Energy technology industry The term “energy technology industry” includes—

(A) a renewable energy industry;

(B) a company that develops or commercializes a device to increase energy efficiency;

(C) the oil and gas industry;

(D) the nuclear power industry;

(E) the coal industry;

(F) the electric utility industry; and

(G) any other industrial sector, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(2) Skilled technical personnel The term “skilled technical personnel” means—

(A) journey- and apprentice-level workers who are enrolled in, or have completed, a federally-recognized or State-recognized apprenticeship program; and

(B) other skilled workers in energy technology industries, as determined by the Secretary.

(b) Workforce trends

(1) Monitoring The Secretary, in consultation with, and using data collected by, the Secretary of Labor, shall monitor trends in the workforce of—

(A) skilled technical personnel that support energy technology industries; and

(B) electric power and transmission engineers.

(2) Report on trends Not later than 1 year after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on current trends under paragraph (1), with recommendations (as appropriate) to meet the future labor requirements for the energy technology industries.

(3) Report on shortage As soon as practicable after the date on which the Secretary identifies or predicts a significant national shortage of skilled technical personnel in one or more energy technology industries, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing the shortage.

(c) Traineeship grants for skilled technical personnel The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, may establish programs in the appropriate offices of the Department under which the Secretary provides grants to enhance training (including distance learning) for any workforce category for which a shortage is identified or predicted under subsection (b)(2).

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2008.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/109/58/tXI/s1101), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 937](/us/stat/119/937).)*
