---
title: "§ 7810. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T16-S7810"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section7810"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–327, title II, § 210](/us/pl/114/327/tII/s210), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1993](/us/stat/130/1993).)"
---
# § 7810. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 7810. Authorization of appropriations

(a) In general There is authorized to be appropriated out of funds made available to the Secretary and the Secretary of State $300,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 to carry out this chapter and to pay the United States contribution to the Commission under Article 15 of the South Pacific Fisheries Convention.

(b) International cooperation and assistance

(1) In general Subject to the limits of available appropriations and consistent with applicable law, the Secretary or the Secretary of State may provide appropriate assistance, including grants, to developing nations and international organizations of which such nations are members to assist those nations in meeting their obligations under the South Pacific Fisheries Convention.

(2) Transfer of funds Subject to the limits of available appropriations and consistent with other applicable law, the Secretary and the Secretary of State are authorized to transfer funds to any foreign government and any international, non-governmental, or international organization, including the Commission, for purposes of carrying out the international responsibilities under paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 114–327, title II, § 210](/us/pl/114/327/tII/s210), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1993](/us/stat/130/1993).)*
