---
title: "§ 990. Grant to Missouri"
identifier: "USC-T43-S990"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section990"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1877, ch. 116](/us/act/1877-03-03/ch116), [19 Stat. 395](/us/stat/19/395).)"
---
# § 990. Grant to Missouri

##### § 990. Grant to Missouri

All lands in the State of Missouri selected as swamp and overflowed lands, and regularly reported as such to the General Land Office, and on March 3, 1877, withheld from market as such, so far as the same remain vacant and unappropriated and not interfered with by any preemption, homestead, or other claim under any law of the United States, and the claim whereto has not been on said date rejected by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, or other competent authority, are confirmed to said State, and all title thereto vested in said State: and it is made the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to cause patents to issue for the same.

*([Mar. 3, 1877, ch. 116](/us/act/1877-03-03/ch116), [19 Stat. 395](/us/stat/19/395).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

General Land Office and office of its Commissioner abolished by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100), which transferred functions of former to Bureau of Land Management, and transferred functions of latter to Secretary of the Interior or that officer as he may designate. See section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946, set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1).
