---
title: "§ 42306. Know Your Rights posters"
identifier: "USC-T49-S42306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section42306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title V, § 504(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tV/s504/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1190](/us/stat/138/1190).)"
---
# § 42306. Know Your Rights posters

##### § 42306. Know Your Rights posters

(a) In General.— Each large hub airport, medium hub airport, and small hub airport with scheduled passenger service shall prominently display posters that clearly and concisely outline the rights of airline passengers under Federal law with respect to, at a minimum—

(1) flight delays and cancellations;

(2) refunds;

(3) bumping of passengers from flights and the oversale of flights; and

(4) lost, delayed, or damaged baggage.

(b) Location.— Posters described in subsection (a) shall be displayed in conspicuous locations throughout the airport, including ticket counters, security checkpoints, and boarding gates.

(c) Accessibility Assistance.— Each large hub airport, medium hub airport, and small hub airport with scheduled passenger service shall ensure that passengers with a disability (as such term is defined in section 382.3 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations) who identify themselves as having such a disability are notified of the availability of accessibility assistance and shall assist such passengers in connecting to the appropriate entities to obtain the same information required in this section that is provided to other passengers.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title V, § 504(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tV/s504/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1190](/us/stat/138/1190).)*

#### Delayed Effective Date of Section

Section effective 1 year after May 16, 2024, see Effective Date note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 118–63, title V, § 504(d)](/us/pl/118/63/tV/s504/d), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1191](/us/stat/138/1191), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending [section 46301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s46301)] shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [May 16, 2024].”
