---
title: "§ 11111. Establishment"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/93/415/tII/s201/a)–(f), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1112](/us/stat/88/1112), 1113; [Pub. L. 95–115, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/115/s3/a/1)–(3)(A), (4), (5), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1048](/us/stat/91/1048), 1049; [Pub. L. 96–509](/us/pl/96/509), §§ 6, 19(b), Dec. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 2752](/us/stat/94/2752), 2762; [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 620](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s620), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2108](/us/stat/98/2108); [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7252(a)](/u"
---
# § 11111. Establishment

##### § 11111. Establishment

(a) Placement within Department of Justice under general authority of Attorney General There is hereby established an Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (hereinafter in this division 11 See References in Text note below. referred to as the “Office”) within the Department of Justice under the general authority of the Attorney General.

(b) Administrator; head, appointment, authorities, etc. The Office shall be headed by an Administrator (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Administrator”) appointed by the President from among individuals who have had experience in juvenile justice programs. The Administrator is authorized to prescribe regulations consistent with this chapter to award, administer, modify, extend, terminate, monitor, evaluate, reject, or deny all grants and contracts from, and applications for, funds made available under this subchapter. The Administrator shall have the same reporting relationship with the Attorney General as the directors of other offices and bureaus within the Office of Justice Programs have.

(c) Deputy Administrator; appointment, functions, etc. There shall be in the Office a Deputy Administrator who shall be appointed by the Attorney General. The Deputy Administrator shall perform such functions as the Administrator may from time to time assign or delegate and shall act as the Administrator during the absence or disability of the Administrator.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/93/415/tII/s201/a)–(f), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1112](/us/stat/88/1112), 1113; [Pub. L. 95–115, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/115/s3/a/1)–(3)(A), (4), (5), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1048](/us/stat/91/1048), 1049; [Pub. L. 96–509](/us/pl/96/509), §§ 6, 19(b), Dec. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 2752](/us/stat/94/2752), 2762; [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 620](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s620), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2108](/us/stat/98/2108); [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7252(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7252/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4436](/us/stat/102/4436); [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/a), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 4984](/us/stat/106/4984); [Pub. L. 112–166, § 2(h)(4)](/us/pl/112/166/s2/h/4), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1285](/us/stat/126/1285).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This division, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means division II (§§ 610–670) of chapter VI of title II of [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2107](/us/stat/98/2107), which made numerous amendments to this chapter. For complete classification of this division to the Code, see Short Title of 1984 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1109](/us/stat/88/1109), known as the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1974 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5611 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5611), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2012—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166) struck out “, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,” after “President”.

1992—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–586](/us/pl/102/586) amended third sentence generally, substituting “The Administrator shall have the same reporting relationship with the Attorney General as the directors of other offices and bureaus within the Office of Justice Programs have” for “The Administrator shall report to the Attorney General through the Assistant Attorney General who heads the Office of Justice Programs under part A of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968”.

1988—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) struck out “and whose function shall be to supervise and direct the National Institute for Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention established by [section 5651 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s5651)” after “Attorney General” in first sentence and “also” after “The Deputy Administrator shall” in second sentence.

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending subsec. (a) generally, substituted provisions relating to establishment of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for former provisions which also provided for the establishment of the Office and its administration by an Administrator.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending subsec. (b) generally, substituted provisions relating to functions and duties of the Administrator for former provisions which related to administration of the program.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending subsec. (c) generally, substituted provisions relating to Deputy Administrator for former provisions which related to nomination of the Administrator by the President.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending section generally, struck out subsec. (d) which related to powers of the Administrator. See subsec. (b) of this section.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending section generally, struck out subsec. (e) which related to Deputy Administrator. See subsec. (c) of this section.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), in amending section generally, struck out subsec. (f) which related to supervision of the National Institute for Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.

1980—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 96–509, § 6(a)](/us/pl/96/509/s6/a), substituted “under the general authority of the Attorney General” for “Law Enforcement Assistance Administration”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 96–509, § 19(b)(1)](/us/pl/96/509/s19/b/1), substituted “Administrator” for “Associate Administrator” as the name of the official heading the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention and struck out provisions that had governed the meaning to be placed upon the use of the title “Associate Administrator”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 96–509](/us/pl/96/509), §§ 6(b), 19(b)(2), substituted “Administrator” for “Associate Administrator” wherever appearing, struck out provisions that had required the former Associate Administrator to report directly to the Administrator, and provided that the Administrator exercise all necessary powers under the general authority of the Attorney General rather than the Administrator of the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, clarified that the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention is authorized to prescribe regulations for all grants and contracts available under part B and part C of this subchapter, and provided that the Administrator of the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration and the Director of the National Institute of Justice may delegate authority to the Administrator for all juvenile justice and delinquency prevention grants and contracts for funds made available under the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 96–509](/us/pl/96/509), §§ 6(c), 19(b)(3), substituted “Deputy Administrator” for “Deputy Associate Administrator”, “Administrator” for “Associate Administrator”, “Attorney General” for “Administrator of the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration”, and “office” for “Office”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 96–509](/us/pl/96/509), §§ 6(d), 19(b)(4), substituted “Deputy Administrator” for “Deputy Associate Administrator” and “Attorney General” for “Administrator”.

1977—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/115/s3/a/1), inserted provisions relating to administration of provisions of this chapter.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 3(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/115/s3/a/2), (3)(A), inserted provisions relating to statutory references to the Associate Administrator and substituted “an Associate” for “an Assistant”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 3(a)(3)(A)](/us/pl/95/115/s3/a/3/A), (4), inserted provisions relating to powers of the Associate Administrator over grants and contracts and provisions relating to reporting requirement and substituted “The Associate Administrator shall exercise” for “The Assistant Administrator shall exercise”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 3(a)(3)(A)](/us/pl/95/115/s3/a/3/A), (5), substituted references to Deputy Associate Administrator and Associate Administrator for references to Deputy Assistant Administrator and Assistant Administrator, respectively, wherever appearing.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 3(a)(5)](/us/pl/95/115/s3/a/5), substituted “Associate” for “Assistant”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166) effective 60 days after Aug. 10, 2012, and applicable to appointments made on and after that effective date, including any nomination pending in the Senate on that date, see [section 6(a) of Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166/s6/a), set out as a note under [section 113 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s113), Domestic Security.

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) effective Oct. 1, 1988, see [section 7296(a) of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s7296/a), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 670(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s670/a), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–115](/us/pl/95/115) effective Oct. 1, 1977, see [section 263(c) of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s263/c), as added by [Pub. L. 95–115](/us/pl/95/115) and repealed by [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7266(2)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7266/2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4449](/us/stat/102/4449), formerly set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Mentoring Matches for Youth

[Pub. L. 109–248, title VI](/us/pl/109/248/tVI), subtitle A, July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 631](/us/stat/120/631), 632, provided that: “SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.“This subtitle may be cited as the ‘Mentoring Matches for Youth Act of 2006’. “SEC. 602. FINDINGS.“Congress finds the following:“(1) Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, which was founded in 1904 and chartered by Congress in 1958, is the oldest and largest mentoring organization in the United States. “(2) There are over 450 Big Brothers Big Sisters of America local agencies providing mentoring programs for at-risk children in over 5,000 communities throughout every State, Guam, and Puerto Rico. “(3) Over the last decade, Big Brothers Big Sisters of America has raised a minimum of 75 percent of its annual operating budget from private sources and is continually working to grow private sources of funding to maintain this ratio of private to Federal funds. “(4) In 2005, Big Brothers Big Sisters of America provided mentors for over 235,000 children. “(5) Big Brothers Big Sisters of America has a goal to provide mentors for 1,000,000 children per year. “SEC. 603. GRANT PROGRAM FOR EXPANDING BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS MENTORING PROGRAM.“In each of fiscal years 2007 through 2012, the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (hereafter in this Act referred to as the ‘Administrator’) may make grants to Big Brothers Big Sisters of America to use for expanding the capacity of and carrying out the Big Brothers Big Sisters mentoring programs for at-risk youth. “SEC. 604. BIANNUAL REPORT.“(a) In General.—Big Brothers Big Sisters of America shall submit 2 reports to the Administrator in each of fiscal years 2007 through 2013. Big Brothers Big Sisters of America shall submit the first report in a fiscal year not later than April 1 of that fiscal year and the second report in a fiscal year not later than September 30 of that fiscal year. “(b) Required Content.—Each such report shall include the following:“(1) A detailed statement of the progress made by Big Brothers Big Sisters of America in expanding the capacity of and carrying out mentoring programs for at-risk youth. “(2) A detailed statement of how the amounts received under this Act have been used. “(3) A detailed assessment of the effectiveness of the mentoring programs. “(4) Recommendations for continued grants and the appropriate amounts for such grants. “SEC. 605. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.“There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act—“(1) $9,000,000 for fiscal year 2007; “(2) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2008; “(3) $11,500,000 for fiscal year 2009; “(4) $13,000,000 for fiscal year 2010; and “(5) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2011.”
