---
title: "§ 12115. Temporary endorsement for vessels procured outside the United States"
identifier: "USC-T46-S12115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section12115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 5](/us/pl/109/304/s5), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1498](/us/stat/120/1498).)"
---
# § 12115. Temporary endorsement for vessels procured outside the United States

##### § 12115. Temporary endorsement for vessels procured outside the United States

(a) General Authority.— The Secretary and the Secretary of State, acting jointly, may provide for the issuance of a certificate of documentation with an appropriate endorsement for a vessel procured outside the United States and meeting the ownership requirements of [section 12103 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s12103).

(b) Authorized Activity.— Subject to limitations the Secretary may prescribe, a vessel documented under this section may proceed to the United States and engage en route in foreign trade or trade with Guam, American Samoa, Wake, Midway, or Kingman Reef.

(c) Application of United States Jurisdiction and Laws.— A vessel documented under this section is subject to the jurisdiction and laws of the United States. However, if the Secretary considers it to be in the public interest, the Secretary may suspend for a period of not more than 6 months the application of a vessel inspection law carried out by the Secretary or regulations prescribed under that law.

(d) Surrender of Certificate.— On the vessel’s arrival in the United States, the certificate of documentation shall be surrendered as provided by regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 5](/us/pl/109/304/s5), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1498](/us/stat/120/1498).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 12115(a) | 46:12112(a). |  |
| 12115(b) | 46:12112(b) (1st sentence). |  |
| 12115(c) | 46:12112(c). |  |
| 12115(d) | 46:12112(b) (last sentence). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 12115, [Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 589](/us/stat/97/589), originally derived from section 65d of former Title 46, Shipping, related to names of vessels, prior to being repealed by [Pub. L. 100–710, title I](/us/pl/100/710/tI), §§ 106(b)(5), 107(a), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4752](/us/stat/102/4752), effective Jan. 1, 1989.
