---
title: "§ 5851. Special (occupational) tax exemption"
identifier: "USC-T26-S5851"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section5851"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–618, title II, § 201](/us/pl/90/618/tII/s201), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1233](/us/stat/82/1233); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)"
---
# § 5851. Special (occupational) tax exemption

##### § 5851. Special (occupational) tax exemption

(a) Business with United States Any person required to pay special (occupational) tax under section 5801 shall be relieved from payment of that tax if he establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary that his business is conducted exclusively with, or on behalf of, the United States or any department, independent establishment, or agency thereof. The Secretary may relieve any person manufacturing firearms for, or on behalf of, the United States from compliance with any provision of this chapter in the conduct of such business.

(b) Application The exemption provided for in subsection (a) of this section may be obtained by filing with the Secretary an application on such form and containing such information as may by regulations be prescribed. The exemptions must thereafter be renewed on or before July 1 of each year. Approval of the application by the Secretary shall entitle the applicant to the exemptions stated on the approved application.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–618, title II, § 201](/us/pl/90/618/tII/s201), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1233](/us/stat/82/1233); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5851, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 728](/us/stat/68A/728), as amended by act Sept. 2, 1958, [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 203(h)(1)](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s203/h/1), (2), [72 Stat. 1428](/us/stat/72/1428), related to possessing firearms illegally, prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618). See [section 5861(b) of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5861/b).

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in prior section 5812, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 722](/us/stat/68A/722), prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618).

#### Amendments

1976—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of first month following October 1968, see [section 207 of Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618/s207), set out as a note under [section 5801 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5801).
