---
title: "§ 5737. Relocation expenses of an employee who is performing an extended assignment"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5737"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5737"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVII, § 1716](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVII/s1716), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2756](/us/stat/110/2756).)"
---
# § 5737. Relocation expenses of an employee who is performing an extended assignment

##### § 5737. Relocation expenses of an employee who is performing an extended assignment

(a) Under regulations prescribed under [section 5738 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5738), an agency may pay to or on behalf of an employee assigned from the employee’s official station to a duty station for a period of not less than six months and not greater than 30 months, the following expenses in lieu of payment of expenses authorized under subchapter I of this chapter:

(1) Travel expenses to and from the assignment location in accordance with [section 5724 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724).

(2) Transportation expenses of the immediate family and household goods and personal effects to and from the assignment location in accordance with [section 5724 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724).

(3) A per diem allowance for en route travel of the employee’s immediate family to and from the assignment location in accordance with [section 5724a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724a/a).

(4) Travel and transportation expenses of the employee and spouse to seek new residence quarters at the assignment location in accordance with [section 5724a(b) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724a/b).

(5) Subsistence expenses of the employee and the employee’s immediate family while occupying temporary quarters upon commencement and termination of the assignment in accordance with [section 5724a(c) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724a/c).

(6) An amount, in accordance with section 5724a(f), to be used by the employee for miscellaneous expenses of this title.11 So in original.

(7) The expenses of transporting a privately owned motor vehicle or vehicles to the assignment location in accordance with [section 5727 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5727).

(8) An allowance as authorized under [section 5724b of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724b) for Federal, State, and local income taxes incurred on reimbursement of expenses paid under this section or on services provided in kind under this section.

(9) Expenses of nontemporary storage of household goods and personal effects as defined in [section 5726(a) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5726/a), subject to the limitation that the weight of the household goods and personal effects stored, together with the weight of property transported under [section 5724(a) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724/a), may not exceed the total maximum weight which could be transported in accordance with [section 5724(a) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724/a).

(10) Expenses of property management services.

(b) An agency shall not make payment under this section to or on behalf of the employee for expenses incurred after termination of the temporary assignment.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVII, § 1716](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVII/s1716), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2756](/us/stat/110/2756).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Sept. 23, 1996, see [section 1725(a) of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s1725/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1996 Amendment note under [section 5722 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5722).
