---
title: "§ 10562. Applications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10562"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10562"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2802](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2802), as added [Pub. L. 106–561, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/106/561/s2/c/1), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2788](/us/stat/114/2788); amended [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title V, § 5001(b)(2)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tV/s5001/b/2), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1813](/us/stat/116/1813); [Pub. L. 108–405, title III, § 311(b)](/us/pl/108/405/tIII/s311/b), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2277](/us/stat/118/2277); [Pub. L. 114–324, § 9(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/324/s9/a/1), Dec. 16, 201"
---
# § 10562. Applications

##### § 10562. Applications

(1) a certification that the State or unit of local government has developed a plan for forensic science laboratories under a program described in [section 10564(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10564/a), and a specific description of the manner in which the grant will be used to carry out that plan;

(2) a certification that any forensic science laboratory system, medical examiner’s office, or coroner’s office in the State, including any laboratory operated by a unit of local government within the State, that will receive any portion of the grant amount uses generally accepted laboratory practices and procedures, established by accrediting organizations or appropriate certifying bodies and, except with regard to any medical examiner’s office, or coroner’s office in the State, is accredited by an accrediting body that is a signatory to an internationally recognized arrangement and that offers accreditation to forensic science conformity assessment bodies using an accreditation standard that is recognized by that internationally recognized arrangement, or attests, in a manner that is legally binding and enforceable, to use a portion of the grant amount to prepare and apply for such accreditation not more than 2 years after the date on which a grant is awarded under [section 10561 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10561);

(3) a specific description of any new facility to be constructed as part of the program for a State or local plan described in paragraph (1), and the estimated costs of that facility, and a certification that the amount of the grant used for the costs of the facility will not exceed the limitations set forth in [section 10564(c) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10564/c); and

(4) a certification that a government entity exists and an appropriate process is in place to conduct independent external investigations into allegations of serious negligence or misconduct substantially affecting the integrity of the forensic results committed by employees or contractors of any forensic laboratory system, medical examiner’s office, coroner’s office, law enforcement storage facility, or medical facility in the State that will receive a portion of the grant amount.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2802](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2802), as added [Pub. L. 106–561, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/106/561/s2/c/1), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2788](/us/stat/114/2788); amended [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title V, § 5001(b)(2)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tV/s5001/b/2), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1813](/us/stat/116/1813); [Pub. L. 108–405, title III, § 311(b)](/us/pl/108/405/tIII/s311/b), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2277](/us/stat/118/2277); [Pub. L. 114–324, § 9(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/324/s9/a/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1954](/us/stat/130/1954).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797k of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797k), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2016—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 114–324](/us/pl/114/324) inserted “and, except with regard to any medical examiner’s office, or coroner’s office in the State, is accredited by an accrediting body that is a signatory to an internationally recognized arrangement and that offers accreditation to forensic science conformity assessment bodies using an accreditation standard that is recognized by that internationally recognized arrangement, or attests, in a manner that is legally binding and enforceable, to use a portion of the grant amount to prepare and apply for such accreditation not more than 2 years after the date on which a grant is awarded under [section 3797j of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3797j)” after “bodies”.

2004—Par. (4). [Pub. L. 108–405](/us/pl/108/405) added par. (4).

2002—[Pub. L. 107–273, § 5001(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/107/273/s5001/b/2/A), inserted “or unit of local government” after “State” in introductory provisions.

Par. (1). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 5001(b)(2)(B)](/us/pl/107/273/s5001/b/2/B), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “a certification that the State has developed a consolidated State plan for forensic science laboratories operated by the State or by other units of local government within the State under a program described in [section 3797m(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3797m/a), and a specific description of the manner in which the grant will be used to carry out that plan;”.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 5001(b)(2)(C)](/us/pl/107/273/s5001/b/2/C), inserted “or appropriate certifying bodies” after “accrediting organizations”.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 5001(b)(2)(D)](/us/pl/107/273/s5001/b/2/D), inserted “for a State or local plan” after “program”.
