---
title: "§ 13283. Discount payments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13283"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13283"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title VI, § 613](/us/pl/102/486/tVI/s613), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2902](/us/stat/106/2902).)"
---
# § 13283. Discount payments

##### § 13283. Discount payments

(a) Certification The Secretary shall provide a discount payment to a proposer of a proposal selected under this part for purposes of reimbursing the proposer for a discount provided to the users if the proposer certifies to the Secretary that—

(1) the electric motor vehicles have been purchased or leased by a user or users in accordance with the requirements of this part; and

(2) the proposer has provided to the user or users a discount payment in accordance with the requirements of this part.

(b) Payment Not later than 30 days after receipt from the proposer of certification that the Secretary determines satisfies the requirements of subsection (a), the Secretary shall pay to the proposer the full amount of the discount payment, to the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts.

(c) Calculations of discount payments

(1) The discount payment shall be no greater than—

(A) the price differential; or

(B) the price of the comparable conventionally fueled motor vehicle.

(2) The purchase price of the electric motor vehicle, less the discount payment and less any additional reduction in the purchase price of the electric motor vehicle that may result from contributions provided by other parties, may not be less than the manufacturer’s suggested retail price of a comparable conventionally fueled motor vehicle.

(3) The maximum discount payment shall be no greater than $10,000 per electric motor vehicle.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title VI, § 613](/us/pl/102/486/tVI/s613), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2902](/us/stat/106/2902).)*
