---
title: "§ 10103. Office of Weed and Seed Strategies"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 103](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s103), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1121(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1121/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3104](/us/stat/119/3104).)"
---
# § 10103. Office of Weed and Seed Strategies

##### § 10103. Office of Weed and Seed Strategies

(a) Establishment There is established within the Office an Office of Weed and Seed Strategies, headed by a Director appointed by the Attorney General.

(b) Assistance The Director may assist States, units of local government, and neighborhood and community-based organizations in developing Weed and Seed strategies, as provided in [section 10104 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10104).

(c) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2006, and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2007, 2008, and 2009, to remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 103](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s103), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1121(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1121/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3104](/us/stat/119/3104).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3712a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3712a), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1121(c)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1121/c), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3107](/us/stat/119/3107), as amended by [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(n)(1)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/n/1), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767), provided that: “This section [enacting this section and sections 10104 and 10105 of this title and provisions set out as a note below] and the amendments made by this section take effect with respect to appropriations for fiscal year 2007 and for each fiscal year thereafter.”

#### Abolishment of Executive Office of Weed and Seed; Transfers of Functions

[Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1121(b)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1121/b), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3107](/us/stat/119/3107), provided that: “(1) Abolishment.—The Executive Office of Weed and Seed is abolished. “(2) Transfer.—There are hereby transferred to the Office of Weed and Seed Strategies all functions and activities performed immediately before the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 5, 2006] by the Executive Office of Weed and Seed Strategies.”
