---
title: "§ 2211. Review of fire prevention codes"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2211"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2211"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–498, § 12](/us/pl/93/498/s12), Oct. 29, 1974, [88 Stat. 1543](/us/stat/88/1543).)"
---
# § 2211. Review of fire prevention codes

##### § 2211. Review of fire prevention codes

The Administrator is authorized to review, evaluate, and suggest improvements in State and local fire prevention codes, building codes, and any relevant Federal or private codes and regulations. In evaluating any such code or codes, the Administrator shall consider the human impact of all code requirements, standards, or provisions in terms of comfort and habitability for residents or employees, as well as the fire prevention and control value or potential of each such requirement, standard, or provision.

*([Pub. L. 93–498, § 12](/us/pl/93/498/s12), Oct. 29, 1974, [88 Stat. 1543](/us/stat/88/1543).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see [section 315(a)(1) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s315/a/1), Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of National Fire Prevention and Control Administration [now United States Fire Administration] and National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control generally transferred to Federal Emergency Management Agency. For further details see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 2202 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2202).
