---
title: "§ 619. Marking, labeling, or other identification to show kinds of animals from which derived; separate establishments for preparation and slaughtering activities"
identifier: "USC-T21-S619"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section619"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), title I, § 19, formerly 17th par., [34 Stat. 1264](/us/stat/34/1264); renumbered § 19 and amended [Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201), §§ 1, 9, Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 584](/us/stat/81/584), 590; [Pub. L. 109–97, title VII, § 798[(a)]](/us/pl/109/97/tVII/s798)(3), Nov. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 2166](/us/stat/119/2166).)"
---
# § 619. Marking, labeling, or other identification to show kinds of animals from which derived; separate establishments for preparation and slaughtering activities

##### § 619. Marking, labeling, or other identification to show kinds of animals from which derived; separate establishments for preparation and slaughtering activities

No person, firm, or corporation shall sell, transport, offer for sale or transportation, or receive for transportation, in commerce, any carcasses of species designated by regulations in effect on the day before November 10, 2005, or parts of such carcasses, or the meat or meat food products thereof, unless they are plainly and conspicuously marked or labeled or otherwise identified as required by regulations prescribed by the Secretary to show the kinds of animals from which they were derived. When required by the Secretary, with respect to establishments at which inspection is maintained under this subchapter, such animals and their carcasses, parts thereof, meat and meat food products shall be prepared in establishments separate from those in which other amenable species are slaughtered or their carcasses, parts thereof, meat or meat food products are prepared.

*([Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), title I, § 19, formerly 17th par., [34 Stat. 1264](/us/stat/34/1264); renumbered § 19 and amended [Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201), §§ 1, 9, Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 584](/us/stat/81/584), 590; [Pub. L. 109–97, title VII, § 798[(a)]](/us/pl/109/97/tVII/s798)(3), Nov. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 2166](/us/stat/119/2166).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 87 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s87).

#### Amendments

2005—[Pub. L. 109–97](/us/pl/109/97) substituted “species designated by regulations in effect on the day before November 10, 2005,” for “horses, mules, or other equines” and “other amenable species” for “cattle, sheep, swine, or goats”.

1967—[Pub. L. 90–201, § 9](/us/pl/90/201/s9), substituted provisions for marking, labeling, or other identification of kinds of animals whence the articles are derived and for separate establishments for preparation and slaughtering activities for prohibition against transportation or sale of meat or meat food products without complying with inspection provisions. See [section 610(b) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s610/b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2005 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–97](/us/pl/109/97) effective the day after 120 days after Nov. 10, 2005, see [section 798(b) of Pub. L. 109–97](/us/pl/109/97/s798/b), set out as a note under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s601).

#### Effective Date of 1967 Amendment

Amendment by Pub. L, 90–201 effective Dec. 15, 1967, except that with respect to equines (other than horses) and their carcasses and parts thereof, meat, and meat food products thereof, amendment effective upon expiration, of sixty days after Dec. 15, 1967, see [section 20(b) of Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201/s20/b), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s601).
