---
title: "§ 4163. Monitoring of compliance"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4163"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4163"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–330, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/104/330/tIV/s403), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4039](/us/stat/110/4039); [Pub. L. 110–411, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/110/411/tIV/s402), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4330](/us/stat/122/4330).)"
---
# § 4163. Monitoring of compliance

##### § 4163. Monitoring of compliance

(a) Enforceable agreements Each recipient, through binding contractual agreements with owners and otherwise, shall ensure long-term compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such measures shall provide for (1) enforcement of the provisions of this chapter by the grant beneficiary or by recipients and other intended beneficiaries, and (2) remedies for the breach of such provisions.

(b) Periodic monitoring Not less frequently than annually, each recipient shall review the activities conducted and housing assisted under this chapter to assess compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Such review shall include an appropriate level of onsite inspection of housing to determine compliance with applicable requirements. The results of each review shall be included in the performance report of the recipient submitted to the Secretary under [section 4164 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4164) and made available to the public.

(c) Performance measures The Secretary shall establish such performance measures as may be necessary to assess compliance with the requirements of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 104–330, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/104/330/tIV/s403), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4039](/us/stat/110/4039); [Pub. L. 110–411, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/110/411/tIV/s402), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4330](/us/stat/122/4330).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4016](/us/stat/110/4016), known as the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4101) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–411](/us/pl/110/411) inserted “an appropriate level of” after “shall include”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1997, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s107), set out as a note under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4101).
