---
title: "§ 1681c–3. Adverse information in cases of trafficking"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1681c–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1681c–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, § 605C](/us/pl/90/321/tVI/s605C), as added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXI, § 6102(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXI/s6102/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2383](/us/stat/135/2383).)"
---
# § 1681c–3. Adverse information in cases of trafficking

##### § 1681c–3. Adverse information in cases of trafficking

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Trafficking documentation The term “trafficking documentation” means—

(A) documentation of—

(i) a determination that a consumer is a victim of trafficking made by a Federal, State, or Tribal governmental entity; or

(ii) by a court of competent jurisdiction; and

(B) documentation that identifies items of adverse information that should not be furnished by a consumer reporting agency because the items resulted from a severe form of trafficking in persons or sex trafficking of which the consumer is a victim.

(2) Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 definitions The terms “severe forms of trafficking in persons” and “sex trafficking” have the meanings given, respectively, in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 ([22 U.S.C. 7102](/us/usc/t22/s7102)).

(3) Victim of trafficking The term “victim of trafficking” means a person who is a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons or sex trafficking.

(b) Adverse information A consumer reporting agency may not furnish a consumer report containing any adverse item of information about a consumer that resulted from a severe form of trafficking in persons or sex trafficking if the consumer has provided trafficking documentation to the consumer reporting agency.

(c) Rulemaking

(1) In general Not later than 180 days after December 27, 2021, the Director shall issue rules to implement subsection (a).

(2) Contents The rules issued pursuant to paragraph (1) shall establish a method by which consumers shall submit trafficking documentation to consumer reporting agencies.

*([Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, § 605C](/us/pl/90/321/tVI/s605C), as added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXI, § 6102(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXI/s6102/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2383](/us/stat/135/2383).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXI, § 6102(c)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXI/s6102/c), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2384](/us/stat/135/2384), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section] shall apply on the date that is 30 days after the date on which the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection issues a rule pursuant to section 605C(c) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act [[15 U.S.C. 1681c–3(c)](/us/usc/t15/s1681c–3/c)], as added by subsection (a) of this section. Any rule issued by the Director to implement such section 605C [[15 U.S.C. 1681c–3](/us/usc/t15/s1681c–3)] shall be limited to preventing a consumer reporting agency from furnishing a consumer report containing any adverse item of information about a consumer (as such terms are defined, respectively, in section 603 the Fair Credit Reporting Act ([15 U.S.C. 1681a](/us/usc/t15/s1681a))) that resulted from trafficking.”
