---
title: "§ 1660a. Grants for alcohol and substance abuse related services"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1660a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1660a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 511](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s511), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 502](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s502), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4569](/us/stat/106/4569).)"
---
# § 1660a. Grants for alcohol and substance abuse related services

##### § 1660a. Grants for alcohol and substance abuse related services

(a) Grants The Secretary may make grants for the provision of health-related services in prevention of, treatment of, rehabilitation of, or school and community-based education in, alcohol and substance abuse in urban centers to those urban Indian organizations with whom the Secretary has entered into a contract under this subchapter or under [section 1621 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1621).

(b) Goals of grant Each grant made pursuant to subsection (a) shall set forth the goals to be accomplished pursuant to the grant. The goals shall be specific to each grant as agreed to between the Secretary and the grantee.

(c) Criteria The Secretary shall establish criteria for the grants made under subsection (a), including criteria relating to the—

The Secretary shall develop a methodology for allocating grants made pursuant to this section based on such criteria.

(1) size of the urban Indian population;

(2) accessibility to, and utilization of, other health resources available to such population;

(3) duplication of existing Service or other Federal grants or contracts;

(4) capability of the organization to adequately perform the activities required under the grant;

(5) satisfactory performance standards for the organization in meeting the goals set forth in such grant, which standards shall be negotiated and agreed to between the Secretary and the grantee on a grant-by-grant basis; and

(6) identification of need for services.

(d) Treatment of funds received by urban Indian organizations Any funds received by an urban Indian organization under this chapter for substance abuse prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation shall be subject to the criteria set forth in subsection (c).

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 511](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s511), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 502](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s502), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4569](/us/stat/106/4569).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (d), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400), known as the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 511 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s511) was renumbered section 510 and is classified to [section 1660 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1660).
