---
title: "§ 8801. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8801"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8801"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–368, § 2](/us/pl/115/368/s2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5092](/us/stat/132/5092); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXVI, § 6606(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXVI/s6606/c/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2443](/us/stat/135/2443); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10104(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10104/b/1), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1437](/us/stat/136/1437).)"
---
# § 8801. Definitions

##### § 8801. Definitions

(1) Advisory Committee The term “Advisory Committee” means the National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee established under [section 8814(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8814/a).

(2) Appropriate committees of Congress The term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—

(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate; and

(C) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives.

(3) Coordination Office The term “Coordination Office” means the National Quantum Coordination Office established under [section 8812(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8812/a).

(4) Institution of higher education The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given the term in [section 1001(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a).

(5) Program The term “Program” means the National Quantum Initiative Program implemented under [section 8811(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8811/a).

(6) Quantum information science The term “quantum information science” means the use of the laws of quantum physics for the storage, transmission, manipulation, computing, or measurement of information.

(7) Quantum network infrastructure The term “quantum network infrastructure” means any facility, expertise, or capability that is necessary to enable the development and deployment of scalable and diverse quantum network technologies.

(8) 11 So in original. Two pars. (8) have been enacted. Subcommittee on Economic and Security Implications The term “Subcommittee on Economic and Security Implications” means the Subcommittee on the Economic and Security Implications of Quantum Information Science established under [section 8814a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8814a/a).

(8) ^1 Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science The term “Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science” means the Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science of the National Science and Technology Council established under [section 8813(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8813/a).

*([Pub. L. 115–368, § 2](/us/pl/115/368/s2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5092](/us/stat/132/5092); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXVI, § 6606(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXVI/s6606/c/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2443](/us/stat/135/2443); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10104(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10104/b/1), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1437](/us/stat/136/1437).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Pars. (7), (8). [Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167) added par. (7) and redesignated former par. (7) relating to Subcommittee on Economic and Security Implications as (8).

2021—Pars. (7), (8). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) added pars. (7) and (8) and struck out former par. (7) which defined “Subcommittee”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 115–368, § 1(a)](/us/pl/115/368/s1/a), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5092](/us/stat/132/5092), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘National Quantum Initiative Act’.”
