---
title: "§ 902. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T45-S902"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title45-section902"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "45"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–101, § 3](/us/pl/96/101/s3), Nov. 4, 1979, [93 Stat. 736](/us/stat/93/736); [Pub. L. 96–254, title I, § 123](/us/pl/96/254/tI/s123), May 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 409](/us/stat/94/409).)"
---
# § 902. Definitions

##### § 902. Definitions

(1) the term “bankruptcy court” means the court having jurisdiction over the reorganization of the Milwaukee Railroad;

(2) the term “Board” means the Railroad Retirement Board;

(3) the term “Commission” means the Interstate Commerce Commission;

(4) the term “employee”—

(A) includes any employee of the Milwaukee Railroad who worked on a line of such railroad the sale of which became effective on October 1, 1979; but

(B) does not include any individual serving as president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, comptroller, counsel, member of the board of directors, or any other person performing such functions;

(5) the term “Milwaukee Railroad” means the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company; and

(6) the term “restructured Milwaukee Railroad” means the entity that is designated as the reorganized railroad under the reorganization plan for the Milwaukee Railroad finally certified by the Commission.

*([Pub. L. 96–101, § 3](/us/pl/96/101/s3), Nov. 4, 1979, [93 Stat. 736](/us/stat/93/736); [Pub. L. 96–254, title I, § 123](/us/pl/96/254/tI/s123), May 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 409](/us/stat/94/409).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1980—Par. (6). [Pub. L. 96–254](/us/pl/96/254) redefined “restructured Milwaukee Railroad” to mean the entity that is designated as the reorganized railroad under the reorganization plan for the Milwaukee Railroad finally certified by the Commission.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Interstate Commerce Commission and Transfer of Functions

Interstate Commerce Commission abolished and functions of Commission transferred, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), to Surface Transportation Board effective Jan. 1, 1996, by [section 1302 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s1302), Transportation, and [section 101 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s101), set out as a note under [section 1301 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s1301). References to Interstate Commerce Commission deemed to refer to Surface Transportation Board, a member or employee of the Board, or Secretary of Transportation, as appropriate, see [section 205 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s205), set out as a note under [section 1301 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
