---
title: "§ 206. Uniform clauses and regulations"
identifier: "USC-T35-S206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-12"
last_updated: "2025-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title35-section206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "35"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–517, § 6(a)](/us/pl/96/517/s6/a), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3023](/us/stat/94/3023); amended [Pub. L. 98–620, title V, § 501(10)](/us/pl/98/620/tV/s501/10), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3367](/us/stat/98/3367).)"
---
# § 206. Uniform clauses and regulations

##### § 206. Uniform clauses and regulations

The Secretary of Commerce may issue regulations which may be made applicable to Federal agencies implementing the provisions of sections 202 through 204 of this chapter and shall establish standard funding agreement provisions required under this chapter. The regulations and the standard funding agreement shall be subject to public comment before their issuance.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–517, § 6(a)](/us/pl/96/517/s6/a), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3023](/us/stat/94/3023); amended [Pub. L. 98–620, title V, § 501(10)](/us/pl/98/620/tV/s501/10), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3367](/us/stat/98/3367).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–620](/us/pl/98/620) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The Office of Federal Procurement Policy, after receiving recommendations of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, may issue regulations which may be made applicable to Federal agencies implementing the provisions of sections 202 through 204 of this chapter and the Office of Federal Procurement Policy shall establish standard funding agreement provisions required under this chapter.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1981, but implementing regulations authorized to be issued earlier, see [section 8(f) of Pub. L. 96–517](/us/pl/96/517/s8/f), set out as an Effective Date of 1980 Amendment note under [section 41 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s41).
