---
title: "§ 12122. Efficiency in law enforcement and corrections"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20407](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20407), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1826](/us/stat/108/1826).)"
---
# § 12122. Efficiency in law enforcement and corrections

##### § 12122. Efficiency in law enforcement and corrections

(a) In general In the administration of each grant program funded by appropriations authorized by this Act or by an amendment made by this Act, the Attorney General shall encourage—

(1) innovative methods for the low-cost construction of facilities to be constructed, converted, or expanded and the low-cost operation of such facilities and the reduction of administrative costs and overhead expenses; and

(2) the use of surplus Federal property.

(b) Assessment of construction components and designs The Attorney General may make an assessment of the cost efficiency and utility of using modular, prefabricated, precast, and pre-engineered construction components and designs for housing nonviolent criminals.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20407](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20407), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1826](/us/stat/108/1826).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1796](/us/stat/108/1796), known as the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13722 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13722), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
