---
title: "§ 2122. Eligibility for participation"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 92–426, § 2(a)](/us/pl/92/426/s2/a), Sept. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 717](/us/stat/86/717); amended [Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title VII, § 712(a)](/us/pl/100/180/dA/tVII/s712/a), Dec. 4, 1987, [101 Stat. 1112](/us/stat/101/1112); [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title VII, § 725(c)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tVII/s725/c), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1479](/us/stat/103/1479).)"
---
# § 2122. Eligibility for participation

##### § 2122. Eligibility for participation

(a) To be eligible for participation as a member of the program, a person must be a citizen of the United States and must—

(1) be accepted for admission to, or enrolled in, an institution in a course of study or selected to receive specialized training;

(2) sign an agreement that unless sooner separated he will—

(A) complete the educational phase of the program;

(B) accept an appropriate reappointment or designation within his military service, if tendered, based upon his health profession, following satisfactory completion of the program;

(C) participate in the intern program of his service if selected for such participation;

(D) participate in the residency program of his service, if selected, or be released from active duty for the period required to undergo civilian residency if selected for such training; and

(E) because of his sincere motivation and dedication to a career in the uniformed services, participate in military training while he is in the program, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense; and

(3) meet the requirements for appointment as a commissioned officer.

(b) The Secretary of Defense may require, as part of the agreement under subsection (a)(2), that a person must agree to accept, if offered, residency training in a health profession skill which has been designated by the Secretary as a critically needed wartime skill.

*(Added [Pub. L. 92–426, § 2(a)](/us/pl/92/426/s2/a), Sept. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 717](/us/stat/86/717); amended [Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title VII, § 712(a)](/us/pl/100/180/dA/tVII/s712/a), Dec. 4, 1987, [101 Stat. 1112](/us/stat/101/1112); [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title VII, § 725(c)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tVII/s725/c), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1479](/us/stat/103/1479).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1989—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 101–189](/us/pl/101/189) substituted “study or selected to receive specialized training” for “study, as that term is defined in [section 2120(3) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2120/3)”.

1987—[Pub. L. 100–180](/us/pl/100/180) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).
