---
title: "§ 2747. Awards and insignia for excellence in service or conduct"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2747"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2747"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 537](/us/stat/63/537), § 503; renumbered § 2747, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 116(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s116/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/132/4226).)"
---
# § 2747. Awards and insignia for excellence in service or conduct

##### § 2747. Awards and insignia for excellence in service or conduct

The Coast Guard may award trophies, badges, and cash prizes to Coast Guard personnel or groups thereof, including personnel of the reserve components thereof whether or not on active duty, for excellence in accomplishments related to Coast Guard service, to incur such expenses as may be necessary to enter such personnel in competitions, and to provide badges or buttons in recognition of special service, good conduct, and discharge under conditions other than dishonorable.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 537](/us/stat/63/537), § 503; renumbered § 2747, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 116(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s116/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/132/4226).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on the following language contained in the Coast Guard appropriation act for 1949, “Pay and Allowances” and preceding years: “not exceeding $10,000 for cash prizes for men for excellence in boatmanship, gunnery, target practice, and engineering competitions” ([June 19, 1948, ch. 558](/us/act/1948-06-19/ch558), [62 Stat. 561](/us/stat/62/561)).

This section expands the language contained in the appropriation act to include the awarding of trophies and badges, and to include in the accomplishments for which such awards may be made, excellence in any field related to Coast Guard duty. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 503 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s503) as this section.
