---
title: "§ 285a–6. Breast and gynecological cancers"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285a–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285a–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 417, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/103/43/tIV/s401), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 153](/us/stat/107/153).)"
---
# § 285a–6. Breast and gynecological cancers

##### § 285a–6. Breast and gynecological cancers

(a) Expansion and coordination of activities The Director of the Institute, in consultation with the National Cancer Advisory Board, shall expand, intensify, and coordinate the activities of the Institute with respect to research on breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and other cancers of the reproductive system of women.

(b) Coordination with other institutes The Director of the Institute shall coordinate the activities of the Director under subsection (a) with similar activities conducted by other national research institutes and agencies of the National Institutes of Health to the extent that such Institutes 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. and agencies have responsibilities that are related to breast cancer and other cancers of the reproductive system of women.

(c) Programs for breast cancer

(1) In general In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the Institute shall conduct or support research to expand the understanding of the cause of, and to find a cure for, breast cancer. Activities under such subsection shall provide for an expansion and intensification of the conduct and support of—

Not less than six centers shall be operated under subparagraph (E). Activities of such centers should include supporting new and innovative research and training programs for new researchers. Such centers shall give priority to expediting the transfer of research advances to clinical applications.

(A) basic research concerning the etiology and causes of breast cancer;

(B) clinical research and related activities concerning the causes, prevention, detection and treatment of breast cancer;

(C) control programs with respect to breast cancer in accordance with [section 285a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–1), including community-based programs designed to assist women who are members of medically underserved populations, low-income populations, or minority groups;

(D) information and education programs with respect to breast cancer in accordance with [section 285a–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–2); and

(E) research and demonstration centers with respect to breast cancer in accordance with [section 285a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–3), including the development and operation of centers for breast cancer research to bring together basic and clinical, biomedical and behavioral scientists to conduct basic, clinical, epidemiological, psychosocial, prevention and treatment research and related activities on breast cancer.

(2) Implementation of plan for programs

(A) The Director of the Institute shall ensure that the research programs described in paragraph (1) are implemented in accordance with a plan for the programs. Such plan shall include comments and recommendations that the Director of the Institute considers appropriate, with due consideration provided to the professional judgment needs of the Institute as expressed in the annual budget estimate prepared in accordance with section 285a–2(9) 22 So in original. Probably should be section “285a–2(b)(9)”. of this title. The Director of the Institute, in consultation with the National Cancer Advisory Board, shall periodically review and revise such plan.

(B) Not later than October 1, 1993, the Director of the Institute shall submit a copy of the plan to the President’s Cancer Panel, the Secretary and the Director of NIH.

(C) The Director of the Institute shall submit any revisions of the plan to the President’s Cancer Panel, the Secretary, and the Director of NIH.

(D) The Secretary shall provide a copy of the plan submitted under subparagraph (A), and any revisions submitted under subparagraph (C), to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.

(d) Other cancers In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the Institute shall conduct or support research on ovarian cancer and other cancers of the reproductive system of women. Activities under such subsection shall provide for the conduct and support of—

(1) basic research concerning the etiology and causes of ovarian cancer and other cancers of the reproductive system of women;

(2) clinical research and related activities into the causes, prevention, detection and treatment of ovarian cancer and other cancers of the reproductive system of women;

(3) control programs with respect to ovarian cancer and other cancers of the reproductive system of women in accordance with [section 285a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–1);

(4) information and education programs with respect to ovarian cancer and other cancers of the reproductive system of women in accordance with [section 285a–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–2); and

(5) research and demonstration centers with respect to ovarian cancer and cancers of the reproductive system in accordance with [section 285a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285a–3).

(e) Report The Director of the Institute shall prepare, for inclusion in the biennial report submitted under section 284b 33 See References in Text note below. of this title, a report that describes the activities of the National Cancer Institute under the research programs referred to in subsection (a), that shall include—

(1) a description of the research plan with respect to breast cancer prepared under subsection (c);

(2) an assessment of the development, revision, and implementation of such plan;

(3) a description and evaluation of the progress made, during the period for which such report is prepared, in the research programs on breast cancer and cancers of the reproductive system of women;

(4) a summary and analysis of expenditures made, during the period for which such report is made, for activities with respect to breast cancer and cancers of the reproductive system of women conducted and supported by the National Institutes of Health; and

(5) such comments and recommendations as the Director considers appropriate.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 417, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/103/43/tIV/s401), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 153](/us/stat/107/153).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 284b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s284b), referred to in subsec. (e), was repealed by [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/b/1/C), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3693](/us/stat/120/3693).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.

Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.
