---
title: "§ 2072. Officers and employees"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2072"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2072"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 348, § 2](/us/act/1927-03-03/ch348/s2), [44 Stat. 1381](/us/stat/44/1381); [May 27, 1930, ch. 342, § 8](/us/act/1930-05-27/ch342/s8), [46 Stat. 430](/us/stat/46/430); [June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 650, [46 Stat. 762](/us/stat/46/762); Ex. Ord. No. 6639, § 1a, Mar. 10, 1934; [Oct. 28, 1949, ch. 782](/us/act/1949-10-28/ch782), title XI, § 1106(a), [63 Stat. 972](/us/stat/63/972); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 9](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s9), [68"
---
# § 2072. Officers and employees

##### § 2072. Officers and employees

(a) Appointment by Secretary of the Treasury The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to appoint, in the service established by [section 2071 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2071), one assistant commissioner, three deputy commissioners, one chief clerk, and such attorneys and other officers and employees as he may deem necessary. One of the deputy commissioners of the United States Customs Service shall have charge of investigations. Appointments under this subsection shall be subject to the provisions of the civil service laws, and the salaries shall be fixed in accordance with chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5.

(b) Absence or disability of Commissioner The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to designate an officer of the United States Customs Service to act as Commissioner of Customs,11 See Change of Name note below. during the absence or disability of the Commissioner of Customs,1 or in the event that there is no Commissioner of Customs.1

(c) Duties of personnel The personnel of the United States Customs Service shall perform such duties as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe.

(d) International Trade Committee

(1) Establishment The Commissioner shall establish an International Trade Committee, to be chaired by the Commissioner, and to include the Deputy Commissioner, the Assistant Commissioner in the Office of Field Operations, the Assistant Commissioner in the Office of Finance, the Assistant Commissioner in the Office of International Affairs, the Assistant Commissioner in the Office of International Trade, the Director of the Office of Trade Relations, and any other official determined by the Commissioner to be important to the work of the Committee.

(2) Responsibilities The International Trade Committee shall—

(A) be responsible for advising the Commissioner with respect to the commercial customs and trade facilitation functions of the United States Customs and Border Protection;

(B) assist the Commissioner in coordinating with the Secretary regarding commercial customs and trade facilitation functions; and

(C) oversee the operation of all programs and systems that are involved in the assessment and collection of duties, bonds, and other charges or penalties associated with the entry of cargo into the United States, or the export of cargo from the United States, including the administration of duty drawback and the collection of antidumping and countervailing duties.

(3) Annual report Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, the International Trade Committee shall submit a report to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives. The report shall—

(A) detail the activities of the International Trade Committee during the preceding fiscal year; and

(B) identify the priorities of the International Trade Committee for the fiscal year in which the report is filed.

(e) Definition In this section:

(1) Commissioner The term “Commissioner” means the Commissioner responsible for the United States Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security.

(2) Commercial Operations Advisory Committee The term “Commercial Operations Advisory Committee” means the Advisory Committee established pursuant to section 9503(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 ([19 U.S.C. 2071](/us/usc/t19/s2071) note) 22 See References in Text note below. or any successor committee.

*([Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 348, § 2](/us/act/1927-03-03/ch348/s2), [44 Stat. 1381](/us/stat/44/1381); [May 27, 1930, ch. 342, § 8](/us/act/1930-05-27/ch342/s8), [46 Stat. 430](/us/stat/46/430); [June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 650, [46 Stat. 762](/us/stat/46/762); Ex. Ord. No. 6639, § 1a, Mar. 10, 1934; [Oct. 28, 1949, ch. 782](/us/act/1949-10-28/ch782), title XI, § 1106(a), [63 Stat. 972](/us/stat/63/972); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 9](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s9), [68 Stat. 1228](/us/stat/68/1228); [Pub. L. 109–347, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/109/347/tIV/s402), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1924](/us/stat/120/1924); [Pub. L. 114–125, title VIII, § 802(d)(2)](/us/pl/114/125/tVIII/s802/d/2), (h)(3), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 210](/us/stat/130/210), 215.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 9503(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987, referred to in subsec. (e)(2), is [section 9503(c) of Pub. L. 100–203](/us/pl/100/203/s9503/c), which was set out as a note under [section 2071 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2071), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 114–125, title I, § 109(g)(1)](/us/pl/114/125/tI/s109/g/1), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 137](/us/stat/130/137). For establishment of successor committee, see [section 4316(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4316/a).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 281a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s281a) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5 by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

“Chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5” were substituted for “the Classification Act of 1949, as amended” on authority of [Pub. L. 89–554, § 7(b)](/us/pl/89/554/s7/b), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 631](/us/stat/80/631), the first section of which enacted Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsecs. (d) to (f). [Pub. L. 114–125, § 802(h)(3)](/us/pl/114/125/s802/h/3), redesignated subsecs. (e) and (f) as (d) and (e), respectively, and struck out former subsec. (d) which established the Office of International Trade. Notwithstanding directory language amending this section “as added” by [section 402 of Pub. L. 109–347](/us/pl/109/347/s402), amendment was executed to this section as amended by [section 402 of Pub. L. 109–347](/us/pl/109/347/s402), to reflect the probable intent of Congress. See 2006 Amendment note below.

2006—Subsecs. (d) to (f). [Pub. L. 109–347](/us/pl/109/347) added subsecs. (d) to (f).

1954—Subsec. (c). Act Sept. 3, 1954, struck out references to the National Prohibition Act.

1949—Subsec. (a). Act Oct. 28, 1949, substituted “Classification Act of 1949” for “Classification Act of 1923”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Bureau of Prohibition and Commissioner of Prohibition redesignated Bureau of Industrial Alcohol and Commissioner of Industrial Alcohol, respectively, by act May 27, 1930.

Reference to Commissioner of Customs deemed to be reference to Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection pursuant to [section 802(d)(2) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/d/2), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), Domestic Security.

#### Repeals

[Act Oct. 28, 1949, ch. 782, title XI, § 1106(a)](/us/act/1949-10-28/ch782/tXI/s1106/a), cited as a credit to this section, was repealed (subject to a savings clause) by [Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, § 8, [80 Stat. 632](/us/stat/80/632), 655.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).

#### Deputy Commissioner of Customs

Act June 17, 1930, authorized the appointment of an additional deputy commissioner in the Bureau of Customs in addition to the two deputy commissioners then authorized by law.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Change of Name

“United States Customs Service” substituted for “Bureau of Customs” in subsecs. (a) to (c) pursuant to Treasury Department Order 165–23, Apr. 4, 1973, eff. Aug. 1, 1973, 38 F.R. 13037. See, also, [section 308 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s308), Money and Finance.

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers of Department of the Treasury and functions of all agencies and employees of such Department transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Treasury, with power vested in him to authorize their performance or performance of any of his functions by any of such officers, agencies, and employees, by Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, [64 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/64/1280), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Bureau of Industrial Alcohol and office of Commissioner of Industrial Alcohol abolished and Commissioner’s functions transferred to Commissioner of Internal Revenue by Ex. Ord. No. 6639.
