---
title: "§ 5532. Advance payments"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5532"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5532"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–55, title I, § 108](/us/pl/105/55/tI/s108), Oct. 7, 1997, [111 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/111/1184).)"
---
# § 5532. Advance payments

##### § 5532. Advance payments

(a) Authorization For fiscal year 1998 and each succeeding fiscal year, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives is authorized to make advance payments under a contract or other agreement to provide a service or deliver an article for the United States Government without regard to the provisions of [section 3324 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3324).

(b) Regulations An advance payment authorized by subsection (a) shall be made in accordance with regulations issued by the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives.

(c) Effective date The authority granted by subsection (a) shall not take effect until regulations are issued pursuant to subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 105–55, title I, § 108](/us/pl/105/55/tI/s108), Oct. 7, 1997, [111 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/111/1184).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 95c of this title](/us/usc/t2/s95c) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1998, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.
