---
title: "§ 935. Acquisition of real property; construction and operation of lamprey control works; entry into agreements for construction and operation of works"
identifier: "USC-T16-S935"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section935"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 4, 1956, ch. 358, § 6](/us/act/1956-06-04/ch358/s6), [70 Stat. 243](/us/stat/70/243).)"
---
# § 935. Acquisition of real property; construction and operation of lamprey control works; entry into agreements for construction and operation of works

##### § 935. Acquisition of real property; construction and operation of lamprey control works; entry into agreements for construction and operation of works

(a) to acquire any real property, or any interest therein, by purchase, exchange, gift, dedication, condemnation, or otherwise;

(b) to construct, operate, and maintain any project or works designed to facilitate compliance with the provisions of the Convention relating to the sea lamprey control program; and

(c) to enter into contract or agreement with any State or other public agency or private agency or individual for the construction, operation, or maintenance of any such project or works.

*([June 4, 1956, ch. 358, § 6](/us/act/1956-06-04/ch358/s6), [70 Stat. 243](/us/stat/70/243).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### United States Fish and Wildlife Service; Work on Sea Lamprey Program; Reimbursements

[Pub. L. 101–512, title I](/us/pl/101/512/tI), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1918](/us/stat/104/1918), provided in part that: “beginning October 1, 1990, and thereafter, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service can perform work for the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, authorized by [16 U.S.C. 931–939c](/us/usc/t16/s931–939c), Great Lakes Fisheries [Fishery] Act of 1956, on the sea lamprey program on a reimbursable basis: *Provided further*, That such reimbursements are to be treated as Intragovernmental funds as defined in the publication titled ‘A Glossary of Terms Used in the Federal Budget Process’.”
