---
title: "§ 505. Functions and powers vested in the Commandant"
identifier: "USC-T14-S505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 545](/us/stat/63/545), § 632; renumbered § 505, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 105(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s105/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4200](/us/stat/132/4200).)"
---
# § 505. Functions and powers vested in the Commandant

##### § 505. Functions and powers vested in the Commandant

All powers and functions conferred upon the Coast Guard, or the Commandant, by or pursuant to this title or any other law shall, unless otherwise specifically stated, be executed by the Commandant subject to the general supervision of the Secretary. In order to execute the powers and functions vested in him, the Commandant may assign personnel of the Coast Guard to duty in the District of Columbia, elsewhere in the United States, in any territory of the United States, and in any foreign country, but such personnel shall not be assigned to duties in any foreign country without the consent of the government of that country; assign to such personnel such duties and authority as he deems necessary; and issue rules, orders, and instructions, not inconsistent with law, relating to the organization, internal administration, and personnel of the Coast Guard.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 545](/us/stat/63/545), § 632; renumbered § 505, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 105(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s105/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4200](/us/stat/132/4200).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 5, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 41, and on title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed. §§ 22, 58, 91, 99, 103 (R.S. 2749; [June 18, 1878, ch. 265](/us/act/1878-06-18/ch265), §§ 7, 8, [22 Stat. 164](/us/stat/22/164); [May 4, 1882, ch. 117, § 5](/us/act/1882-05-04/ch117/s5), [22 Stat. 57](/us/stat/22/57); [Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2918](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2918), [34 Stat. 1309](/us/stat/34/1309); [Jan. 28, 1915, ch. 20, § 1](/us/act/1915-01-28/ch20/s1), [38 Stat. 800](/us/stat/38/800); [Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 417](/us/act/1916-08-29/ch417), [39 Stat. 601](/us/stat/39/601); [June 10, 1921, ch. 18, § 304](/us/act/1921-06-10/ch18/s304), [42 Stat. 23](/us/stat/42/23); [July 3, 1926, ch. 742, § 9](/us/act/1926-07-03/ch742/s9), [44 Stat. 817](/us/stat/44/817)).

Said section 91 has been divided. That part dealing with investigation of plans and inventions is covered in [section 93(d) of this title](/us/usc/t14/s93/d). The remainder is covered in general terms. It has been rewritten in broad terms, making clear that the Commandant is granted the necessary authority to administer the Coast Guard under the Secretary, including authority to issue rules, orders, and instructions.

This section is primarily a consolidation of existing functions rather than a codification of existing laws. It does not, for the most part, grant new authority to the Coast Guard as an organization. It merely clarifies the method by which Coast Guard functions shall be administered. Under existing statutes, functions relating to the Coast Guard have been conferred upon the President, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Commandant, and sometimes upon the Secretary of the Treasury in times of peace and the Secretary of the Navy in times of war. This revision confers some functions directly upon the Coast Guard, and this section provides for the execution of those functions by the Commandant, the military head of the organization, thereby making for consistency and uniformity. The functions are to be executed “subject to the general supervision of the Secretary”. Title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 91 now grants authority to the Commandant to prescribe regulations; this is changed to the issuance of rules, orders, and instructions as the promulgation of regulations in a military organization is properly a function of the Secretary.

Changes were made in phraseology. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 505 was renumbered [section 2734 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2734).

Another prior section 505, [act Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 537](/us/stat/63/537), related to escorts to the place of burial for the bodies of deceased Coast Guard personnel, prior to repeal by [act July 15, 1954, ch. 507, § 14(c)(5)](/us/act/1954-07-15/ch507/s14/c/5), [68 Stat. 481](/us/stat/68/481). For provisions relating to recovery, care, and disposition of the remains of deceased personnel of the uniformed services and deceased civilian personnel, see [section 1481 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1481), Armed Forces.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 632 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s632) as this section.
