---
title: "§ 10612. Prohibition of participation by violent offenders"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10612"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10612"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2952](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2952), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, § 2301(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII/s2301/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1795](/us/stat/116/1795).)"
---
# § 10612. Prohibition of participation by violent offenders

##### § 10612. Prohibition of participation by violent offenders

(1) issue regulations or guidelines to ensure that the programs authorized in this subchapter do not permit participation by violent offenders; and

(2) immediately suspend funding for any grant under this subchapter, pending compliance, if the Attorney General finds that violent offenders are participating in any program funded under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2952](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2952), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, § 2301(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII/s2301/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1795](/us/stat/116/1795).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797u–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797u–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 103(c)](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s103/c), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 668](/us/stat/122/668), provided that: “Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Apr. 9, 2008], the Secretary [probably should be “the Attorney General”] shall revise any regulations or guidelines described in section 2952 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3797u–1](/us/usc/t42/s3797u–1)) [now [34 U.S.C. 10612](/us/usc/t34/s10612)] in accordance with the amendments made by subsection (a) [amending [section 10613 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10613)]. Such regulations shall specify that grant amounts under part EE of such Act [[34 U.S.C. 10611](/us/usc/t34/s10611) et seq.] shall be reduced for any drug court that does not adopt the definition of ‘violent offender’ under such part, as amended by subsection (a) of this section, within 3 years after such date of enactment.”
