---
title: "§ 1461–1. Mission of United States Information Agency"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1461–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1461–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–426, title II, § 202](/us/pl/95/426/tII/s202), Oct. 7, 1978, [92 Stat. 972](/us/stat/92/972); [Pub. L. 97–241, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/97/241/tIII/s303/b), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 291](/us/stat/96/291).)"
---
# § 1461–1. Mission of United States Information Agency

##### § 1461–1. Mission of United States Information Agency

(1) conduct Government-sponsored information, educational, and cultural activities designed—

(A) to provide other peoples with a better understanding of the policies, values, institutions, and culture of the United States; and

(B) within the statutory limits governing domestic activities of the Agency, to enhance understanding on the part of the Government and people of the United States of the history, culture, attitudes, perceptions, and aspirations of others;

(2) encourage private institutions in the United States to develop their own exchange activities, and provide assistance for those exchange activities which are in the broadest national interest;

(3) coordinate international informational, educational, or cultural activities conducted or planned by departments and agencies of the United States Government;

(4) assist in the development of a comprehensive national policy on international communications; and

(5) promote United States participation in international events relevant to the mission of the Agency.

*([Pub. L. 95–426, title II, § 202](/us/pl/95/426/tII/s202), Oct. 7, 1978, [92 Stat. 972](/us/stat/92/972); [Pub. L. 97–241, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/97/241/tIII/s303/b), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 291](/us/stat/96/291).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1979, and not as part of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“United States Information Agency” substituted in text for “International Communication Agency” pursuant to [section 303(b) of Pub. L. 97–241](/us/pl/97/241/s303/b), set out as a note under [section 1461 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1461). United States Information Agency (other than Broadcasting Board of Governors and International Broadcasting Bureau) abolished and functions transferred to Secretary of State, see sections 6531 and 6532 of this title.

#### Increase in Financial Resources of Agency for Exchange-of-Persons Activities

[Pub. L. 95–426, title II, § 203](/us/pl/95/426/tII/s203), Oct. 7, 1978, [92 Stat. 973](/us/stat/92/973), as amended by [Pub. L. 97–241, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/97/241/tIII/s303/b), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 291](/us/stat/96/291), required the President, by a process of gradual expansion during the four-year period beginning Oct. 1, 1979, to increase significantly the financial resources expended annually by the United States Information Agency for exchange-of-persons activities.
