---
title: "§ 5715. Cultural and educational exchanges"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5715"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5715"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–383, title I, § 105](/us/pl/102/383/tI/s105), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1452](/us/stat/106/1452).)"
---
# § 5715. Cultural and educational exchanges

##### § 5715. Cultural and educational exchanges

(1) The United States should seek to maintain and expand United States-Hong Kong relations and exchanges in culture, education, science, and academic research. The United States should encourage American participation in bilateral exchanges with Hong Kong, both official and unofficial.

(2) The United States should actively seek to further United States-Hong Kong cultural relations and promote bilateral exchanges, including the negotiating and concluding of appropriate agreements in these matters.

(3) Hong Kong should be accorded separate status as a full partner under the Fulbright Academic Exchange Program (apart from the United Kingdom before July 1, 1997, and apart from the People’s Republic of China thereafter), with the continuation or establishment of a Fulbright Commission or functionally equivalent mechanism.

(4) The United States should actively encourage Hong Kong residents to visit the United States on nonimmigrant visas for such purposes as business, tourism, education, and scientific and academic research, in accordance with applicable United States and Hong Kong laws.

(5) Upon the request of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong, the Librarian of Congress, acting through the Congressional Research Service, should seek to expand educational and informational ties with the Council.

*([Pub. L. 102–383, title I, § 105](/us/pl/102/383/tI/s105), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1452](/us/stat/106/1452).)*
