---
title: "§ 1906. Incidents involving ships"
identifier: "USC-T33-S1906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section1906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–478, § 7](/us/pl/96/478/s7), Oct. 21, 1980, [94 Stat. 2300](/us/stat/94/2300); [Pub. L. 102–241, § 39](/us/pl/102/241/s39), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2225](/us/stat/105/2225).)"
---
# § 1906. Incidents involving ships

##### § 1906. Incidents involving ships

(a) Requirement to report incident The master, person in charge, owner, charterer, manager, or operator of a ship involved in an incident shall report the incident in the manner prescribed by Article 8 of the Convention in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary for that purpose.

(b) Requirement to report discharge, probable discharge, or presence of oil The master or person in charge of—

shall report a discharge, probable discharge, or presence of oil in the manner prescribed by Article 4 of the International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation, 1990 (adopted at London, November 30, 1990), in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary for that purpose.

(1) a ship of United States registry or nationality, or operated under the authority of the United States, wherever located;

(2) another ship while in the navigable waters of the United States; or

(3) a sea port or oil handling facility subject to the jurisdiction of the United States,

*([Pub. L. 96–478, § 7](/us/pl/96/478/s7), Oct. 21, 1980, [94 Stat. 2300](/us/stat/94/2300); [Pub. L. 102–241, § 39](/us/pl/102/241/s39), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2225](/us/stat/105/2225).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–241](/us/pl/102/241) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows:

“(a) As soon as he has knowledge of an incident, the master or other person in charge of a ship shall report it to the Secretary in the manner prescribed by Article 8 of the Convention.

“(b) Upon receipt of the report of an incident involving a ship, other than one of United States registry or nationality or one operated under the authority of the United States, the Secretary shall take the action required by Article 8 of the Convention.”
