---
title: "§ 3057k–21. Program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3057k–21"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3057k–21"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–73, title VI, § 636](/us/pl/89/73/tVI/s636), as added [Pub. L. 116–131, title V, § 501(3)](/us/pl/116/131/tV/s501/3), Mar. 25, 2020, [134 Stat. 268](/us/stat/134/268).)"
---
# § 3057k–21. Program

##### § 3057k–21. Program

(a) In general The Assistant Secretary may carry out a competitive demonstration program for making grants to tribal organizations or organizations serving Native Hawaiians with applications approved under parts A and B, to pay for the Federal share of carrying out programs, to enable the organizations described in this subsection to build their capacity to provide a wider range of in-home and community supportive services to enable older individuals to maintain their health and independence and to avoid long-term care facility placement.

(b) Supportive services

(1) In general Subject to paragraph (2), supportive services described in subsection (a) may include any of the activities described in [section 3030d(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3030d/a).

(2) Priority The Assistant Secretary, in making grants under this section, shall give priority to organizations that will use the grant funds for supportive services described in subsection (a) that are for in-home assistance, transportation, information and referral, case management, health and wellness programs, legal services, family caregiver support services, and other services that directly support the independence of the older individuals served.

(3) Rule of construction Nothing in this section shall be construed or interpreted to prohibit the provision of supportive services under part A or B.

*([Pub. L. 89–73, title VI, § 636](/us/pl/89/73/tVI/s636), as added [Pub. L. 116–131, title V, § 501(3)](/us/pl/116/131/tV/s501/3), Mar. 25, 2020, [134 Stat. 268](/us/stat/134/268).)*
