---
title: "§ 708. Sale of surplus waters for domestic and industrial uses; disposition of moneys"
identifier: "USC-T33-S708"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section708"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Dec. 22, 1944, ch. 665, § 6](/us/act/1944-12-22/ch665/s6), [58 Stat. 890](/us/stat/58/890); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [May 23, 1952, ch. 328, § 1(a)](/us/act/1952-05-23/ch328/s1/a), [66 Stat. 93](/us/stat/66/93).)"
---
# § 708. Sale of surplus waters for domestic and industrial uses; disposition of moneys

##### § 708. Sale of surplus waters for domestic and industrial uses; disposition of moneys

The Secretary of the Army is authorized to make contracts with States, municipalities, private concerns, or individuals, at such prices and on such terms as he may deem reasonable, for domestic and industrial uses for surplus water that may be available at any reservoir under the control of the Department of the Army: *Provided*, That no contracts for such water shall adversely affect then existing lawful uses of such water. All moneys received from such contracts shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts.

*([Dec. 22, 1944, ch. 665, § 6](/us/act/1944-12-22/ch665/s6), [58 Stat. 890](/us/stat/58/890); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [May 23, 1952, ch. 328, § 1(a)](/us/act/1952-05-23/ch328/s1/a), [66 Stat. 93](/us/stat/66/93).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1952—Act May 23, 1952, revived and reenacted section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Repeals

Act May 23, 1952, § 1(b), repealed paragraph (59) of section 1 of [act Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 654](/us/act/1951-10-31/ch654), [65 Stat. 703](/us/stat/65/703), which had previously repealed this section.

#### Section as Unaffected by Submerged Lands Act

Provisions of this section as not amended, modified or repealed by the Submerged Lands Act, see [section 1303 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1303), Public Lands.

#### Conversion of Surplus Water Agreements

[Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1174](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1174), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1673](/us/stat/130/1673), provided that: “For the purposes of [section 6 of the Act of December 22, 1944](/us/act/1944-12-22/s6) ([58 Stat. 890](/us/stat/58/890), chapter 665; [33 U.S.C. 708](/us/usc/t33/s708)), in any case in which a water supply agreement with a duration of 30 years or longer was predicated on water that was surplus to a purpose and provided for the complete payment of the actual investment costs of storage to be used, and that purpose is no longer authorized as of the date of enactment of this section [Dec. 16, 2016], the Secretary [of the Army] shall provide to the non-Federal entity an opportunity to convert the agreement to a permanent storage agreement in accordance with section 301 of the Water Supply Act of 1958 ([43 U.S.C. 390b](/us/usc/t43/s390b)), with the same payment terms incorporated in the agreement.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain personal property and functions relating thereto, insofar as they pertain to Air Force, from Secretary of the Army and Department of the Army to Secretary of the Air Force and Department of the Air Force, see Secretary of Defense Transfer Order No. 39, eff. May 18, 1949, and 40 [App. B (98)], July 22, 1949.
