---
title: "§ 70111. Enhanced crewmember identification"
identifier: "USC-T46-S70111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section70111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s102/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2080](/us/stat/116/2080); amended [Pub. L. 109–347, title I, § 110](/us/pl/109/347/tI/s110), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1893](/us/stat/120/1893).)"
---
# § 70111. Enhanced crewmember identification

##### § 70111. Enhanced crewmember identification

(a) Requirement.— Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the SAFE Port Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, shall require crewmembers on vessels calling at United States ports to carry and present on demand any identification that the Secretary decides is necessary.

(b) Forms and Process.— Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the SAFE Port Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, shall establish the proper forms and process that shall be used for identification and verification of crewmembers.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s102/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2080](/us/stat/116/2080); amended [Pub. L. 109–347, title I, § 110](/us/pl/109/347/tI/s110), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1893](/us/stat/120/1893).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the SAFE Port Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 109–347](/us/pl/109/347), which was approved Oct. 13, 2006.

#### Amendments

2006—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 109–347](/us/pl/109/347) substituted “Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the SAFE Port Act, the” for “The”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### International Seafarer Identification

[Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 103](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s103), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2084](/us/stat/116/2084), provided that: “(a) Treaty Initiative.—The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating is encouraged to negotiate an international agreement, or an amendment to an international agreement, that provides for a uniform, comprehensive, international system of identification for seafarers that will enable the United States and another country to establish authoritatively the identity of any seafarer aboard a vessel within the jurisdiction, including the territorial waters, of the United States or such other country. “(b) Legislative Alternative.—If the Secretary fails to complete a negotiation process undertaken under subsection (a) within 24 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 25, 2002], the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a draft of legislation that, if enacted, would establish a uniform, comprehensive system of identification for seafarers.”

[For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).]
