---
title: "§ 4003. Study of potential for expansion of United States agricultural export markets; report to President and Congress"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4003"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4003"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–494, title II, § 210](/us/pl/96/494/tII/s210), Dec. 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 2576](/us/stat/94/2576).)"
---
# § 4003. Study of potential for expansion of United States agricultural export markets; report to President and Congress

##### § 4003. Study of potential for expansion of United States agricultural export markets; report to President and Congress

(a) The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative and any other appropriate agency of the United States Government as determined by the Secretary, shall perform a study of the potential for expansion of United States agricultural export markets and the use of agricultural exports in obtaining natural resources or other commodities and products needed by the United States. The Secretary shall complete the study and submit to the President and Congress a report on the study before June 30, 1981.

(b) In performing the study, the Secretary shall determine for the next five years—

(1) world food, feed, and fiber needs;

(2) estimated United States and world food, feed, and fiber production capabilities;

(3) potential new or expanded foreign markets for United States agricultural products;

(4) the potential for the development of international agreements for the exchange of United States agricultural products for natural resources, including energy sources, or other commodities and products needed by the United States; and

(5) the steps that the United States must take to (A) increase agricultural export trade, and (B) obtain needed natural resources or other commodities and products in exchange for agricultural products, to the maximum extent feasible.

*([Pub. L. 96–494, title II, § 210](/us/pl/96/494/tII/s210), Dec. 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 2576](/us/stat/94/2576).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 3, 1980, see [section 213 of Pub. L. 96–494](/us/pl/96/494/s213), set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4001).
