---
title: "§ 285b–2. Information and education"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285b–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285b–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 420, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 837](/us/stat/99/837); amended [Pub. L. 100–607, title I, § 126](/us/pl/100/607/tI/s126), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3055](/us/stat/102/3055).)"
---
# § 285b–2. Information and education

##### § 285b–2. Information and education

(1) increase the awareness and knowledge of health care professionals and the public regarding the prevention of heart and blood vessel, lung, and blood diseases and the utilization of blood resources; and

(2) develop and disseminate to health professionals, patients and patient families, and the public information designed to encourage adults and children to adopt healthful practices concerning the prevention of such diseases.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 420, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 837](/us/stat/99/837); amended [Pub. L. 100–607, title I, § 126](/us/pl/100/607/tI/s126), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3055](/us/stat/102/3055).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–607](/us/pl/100/607) amended second sentence generally. Prior to amendment, second sentence read as follows: “In carrying out this section the Director of the Institute shall place special emphasis upon—

“(1) the dissemination of information regarding diet and nutrition, environmental pollutants, exercise, stress, hypertension, cigarette smoking, weight control, and other factors affecting the prevention of arteriosclerosis and other cardiovascular diseases and of pulmonary and blood diseases; and

“(2) the dissemination of information designed to encourage children to adopt healthful habits respecting the risk factors related to the prevention of such diseases.”
