---
title: "§ 571. Sale of unplatted portions of Government town sites; authorization"
identifier: "USC-T43-S571"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section571"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Mar. 2, 1929, ch. 541, § 1](/us/act/1929-03-02/ch541/s1), [45 Stat. 1522](/us/stat/45/1522); [Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 176](/us/act/1931-02-14/ch176), [46 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/46/1107).)"
---
# § 571. Sale of unplatted portions of Government town sites; authorization

##### § 571. Sale of unplatted portions of Government town sites; authorization

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized, in his discretion, to appraise, and sell, at public auction, to the highest bidder, from time to time, under such terms as to time of payment as he may require, but in no event for any longer period than five years, any or all of the unplatted portions of Government town sites created under the Act of April 16, 1906 ([34 Stat. 116](/us/stat/34/116)), on any irrigation project constructed under the Act of June 17, 1902 ([32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388)), or Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto: *Provided*, That any land so offered for sale and not disposed of may afterwards be sold, at not less than the appraised value, at private sale, under such regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe. Patents made in pursuance of such sale shall convey all the right, title, and interest of the United States in or to the land so sold.

*([Mar. 2, 1929, ch. 541, § 1](/us/act/1929-03-02/ch541/s1), [45 Stat. 1522](/us/stat/45/1522); [Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 176](/us/act/1931-02-14/ch176), [46 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/46/1107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of April 16, 1906, referred to in text, is [act Apr. 16, 1906, ch. 1631](/us/act/1906-04-16/ch1631), [34 Stat. 116](/us/stat/34/116), which enacted sections 522, 561, 562, 566, and 567 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Act of June 17, 1902, referred to in text, is [act June 17, 1902, ch. 1093](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093), [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1931—Act Feb. 14, 1931, substituted “under such terms as to time of payment as he may require, but in no event for any longer period than five years” for “for cash”.
