---
title: "§ 12335. State plan"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12335"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12335"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–501, title IX, § 929](/us/pl/101/501/tIX/s929), Nov. 3, 1990, [104 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/104/1270).)"
---
# § 12335. State plan

##### § 12335. State plan

(a) Submission of plan The chief executive officer of a State, in order to be eligible for grants from an allotment under section 12337, 12338, or 12339 11 See References in Text note below. of this title for any fiscal year, shall prepare and submit to the Commissioner a State plan for a 3-year period.

(b) Revisions of plan Each chief executive officer of a State may make annual revisions of the State plan referred to in subsection (a).

(c) Content of plan The chief executive officer of a State shall include within the State plan of that State assurances as required under sections 22 So in original. Probably should be “section”. 12337, 12338, or 12339 ^1 of this title, and a description of the proposed multi-year plans of the State for program development and implementation.

(d) Type of application A State may apply for funds under one or more of the following categories:

In the case of each category, the State application and plan shall comply only with the requirements of the appropriate section.

(1) [section 12337 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12337);

(2) sections 12337 and 12338 of this title jointly; or

(3) section 12339 ^1 of this title.

(e) Approval of plan

(1) In general The Commissioner shall approve any State plan under sections 12337 and 12338 of this title that the Commissioner determines meets the requirements of such sections.

(2) Notice and opportunity to correct deficiencies The Commissioner shall not make a final determination disapproving any State plan, modifying such plan, or declaring a State to be ineligible to receive funds under sections 12337 and 12338 of this title without previously affording such State reasonable notice and opportunity to correct deficiencies in its application.

*([Pub. L. 101–501, title IX, § 929](/us/pl/101/501/tIX/s929), Nov. 3, 1990, [104 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/104/1270).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 12339 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12339), referred to in subsecs. (a), (c), and (d)(3), was repealed by [Pub. L. 103–252, title IV, § 401(b)(1)](/us/pl/103/252/tIV/s401/b/1), May 18, 1994, [108 Stat. 672](/us/stat/108/672).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1990, see [section 1001(a) of Pub. L. 101–501](/us/pl/101/501/s1001/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1990 Amendment note under [section 8621 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8621).
