---
title: "§ 13111. Notice of actions taken to comply with ethics agreements"
identifier: "USC-T5-S13111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section13111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–286, § 3(c)](/us/pl/117/286/s3/c), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4295](/us/stat/136/4295).)"
---
# § 13111. Notice of actions taken to comply with ethics agreements

##### § 13111. Notice of actions taken to comply with ethics agreements

(a) In General.— In any case in which an individual agrees with that individual’s designated agency ethics official, the Office of Government Ethics, a Senate confirmation committee, a congressional ethics committee, or the Judicial Conference, to take any action to comply with this chapter or any other law or regulation governing conflicts of interest of, or establishing standards of conduct applicable with respect to, officers or employees of the Government, that individual shall notify in writing the designated agency ethics official, the Office of Government Ethics, the appropriate committee of the Senate, the congressional ethics committee, or the Judicial Conference, as the case may be, of any action taken by the individual pursuant to that agreement. Such notification shall be made not later than the date specified in the agreement by which action by the individual must be taken, or not later than 3 months after the date of the agreement, if no date for action is so specified.

(b) Recusal.— If an agreement described in subsection (a) requires that the individual recuse himself or herself from particular categories of agency or other official action, the individual shall reduce to writing those subjects regarding which the recusal agreement will apply and the process by which it will be determined whether the individual must recuse himself or herself in a specific instance. An individual shall be considered to have complied with the requirements of subsection (a) with respect to such recusal agreement if such individual files a copy of the document setting forth the information described in the preceding sentence with such individual’s designated agency ethics official or the appropriate supervising ethics office within the time prescribed in the last sentence of subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 117–286, § 3(c)](/us/pl/117/286/s3/c), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4295](/us/stat/136/4295).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 13111 | 5 U.S.C. App. (EGA § 110) | Pub. L. 95–521, title I, § 110, as added Pub. L. 101–194, title II, § 202, Nov. 30, 1989, 103 Stat. 1744; amended Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(1), May 4, 1990, 104 Stat. 152. |
