---
title: "§ 3227b. Reporting"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3227b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3227b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title X, § 1033, as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tIII/s305/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2366](/us/stat/134/2366).)"
---
# § 3227b. Reporting

##### § 3227b. Reporting

(a) In general Not less frequently than once each year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a plan for employing professors, instructors, and lecturers at the National Intelligence University.

(b) Elements Each plan submitted under subsection (a) shall include the following:

(1) The total number of proposed personnel to be employed at the National Intelligence University.

(2) The total annual compensation to be provided the personnel described in paragraph (1).

(3) Such other matters as the Director considers appropriate.

(c) Form of submittal Each plan submitted by the Director to the congressional intelligence committees under subsection (a) shall be submitted as part of another annual submission from the Director to the congressional intelligence committees.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title X, § 1033, as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tIII/s305/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2366](/us/stat/134/2366).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Plan Regarding Personnel at National Intelligence University

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title III, § 305(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tIII/s305/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2367](/us/stat/134/2367), provided that: “(1) Initial submission.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 27, 2020], the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees [Select Committee on Intelligence and Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives] the first submission required by section 1033(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3227b(a)](/us/usc/t50/s3227b/a)], as added by subsection (a). “(2) Certain requirement not applicable.—Subsection (c) of section 1033 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3227b(c)](/us/usc/t50/s3227b/c)], as added by subsection (a), shall not apply to the submittal under paragraph (1) of this subsection.”
