---
title: "§ 1674. Leases with Indian tribes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1674"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1674"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s804), formerly title VII, § 704, Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/90/1414); [Pub. L. 96–537, § 8(a)](/us/pl/96/537/s8/a), Dec. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 3179](/us/stat/94/3179); [Pub. L. 100–713, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/100/713/tVII/s701), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4826](/us/stat/102/4826); renumbered title VIII, § 804, [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 701(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s701/a), (b), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4572](/us/stat/106"
---
# § 1674. Leases with Indian tribes

##### § 1674. Leases with Indian tribes

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized, in carrying out the purposes of this chapter, to enter into leases with Indian tribes for periods not in excess of twenty years. Property leased by the Secretary from an Indian tribe may be reconstructed or renovated by the Secretary pursuant to an agreement with such Indian tribe.

(b) The Secretary may enter into leases, contracts, and other legal agreements with Indian tribes or tribal organizations which hold—

facilities used for the administration and delivery of health services by the Service or by programs operated by Indian tribes or tribal organizations to compensate such Indian tribes or tribal organizations for costs associated with the use of such facilities for such purposes. Such costs include rent, depreciation based on the useful life of the building, principal and interest paid or accrued, operation and maintenance expenses, and other expenses determined by regulation to be allowable.

(1) title to;

(2) a leasehold interest in; or

(3) a beneficial interest in (where title is held by the United States in trust for the benefit of a tribe);

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s804), formerly title VII, § 704, Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/90/1414); [Pub. L. 96–537, § 8(a)](/us/pl/96/537/s8/a), Dec. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 3179](/us/stat/94/3179); [Pub. L. 100–713, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/100/713/tVII/s701), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4826](/us/stat/102/4826); renumbered title VIII, § 804, [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 701(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s701/a), (b), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4572](/us/stat/106/4572).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400), known as the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–713](/us/pl/100/713) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

1980—[Pub. L. 96–537](/us/pl/96/537) inserted provision that property leased by the Secretary from an Indian tribe may be reconstructed or renovated by the Secretary pursuant to an agreement with such Indian tribe.
