---
title: "§ 9109. Exclusion of a wholly owned Government corporation from this chapter"
identifier: "USC-T31-S9109"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section9109"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1045](/us/stat/96/1045).)"
---
# § 9109. Exclusion of a wholly owned Government corporation from this chapter

##### § 9109. Exclusion of a wholly owned Government corporation from this chapter

When the President considers it practicable and in the public interest, the President shall include in the budget submitted to Congress under [section 1105 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s1105) a recommendation that a wholly owned Government corporation be deemed to be an agency (except a corporation) under chapter 11 of this title and for fiscal matters. If Congress approves the recommendation, the corporation is deemed to be an agency (except a corporation) under chapter 11 and for fiscal matters for fiscal years beginning after the fiscal year of approval and is not subject to this chapter. The corporate entity is not affected by this section.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1045](/us/stat/96/1045).)*

The word “President” is substituted for “Director of the Office of Management and Budget” because sections 101 and 102(a) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1970 (eff. July 1, 1970, [84 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/84/2085)) designated the Bureau of the Budget as the Office of Management and Budget and transferred all functions of the Bureau to the President. The words “with the approval of the President” are omitted because of the restatement. The word “considers” is substituted for “deemed” for consistency. The words “in connection with the budget program of such corporation” are omitted as surplus. The words “submitted to Congress under [section 1105 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s1105)” are added for clarity. The words “deemed to be” are substituted for “treated . . . as if it were” for consistency. The word “agency” is substituted for “Government agency” and “establishment” because of section 101 of the revised title and for consistency. The words “if it were”, “appropriations, expenditures, receipts, accounts, and other”, and “in connection with the budget program for any fiscal year” are omitted as surplus. The words “deemed to be” are substituted for “regarded as” for consistency.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 9109 | 31:852. | Dec. 6, 1945, ch. 577, § 107, 59 Stat. 599. |
