---
title: "§ 405. Reservation for park and camp sites"
identifier: "USC-T16-S405"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section405"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([May 5, 1926, ch. 241, § 1](/us/act/1926-05-05/ch241/s1), [44 Stat. 397](/us/stat/44/397).)"
---
# § 405. Reservation for park and camp sites

##### § 405. Reservation for park and camp sites

The northeast quarter northwest quarter, lot 1, section 7, township 28 south, range 9 west, the southwest quarter northeast quarter, north half southeast quarter, section 5, township 27 south, range 11 west, the west half southwest quarter, section 5, the south half northwest quarter, section 11, township 28 south, range 11 west, the south half southeast quarter and east half southwest quarter, section 35, township 27 south, range 12 west, Willamette Meridian, Coos County, Oregon, formerly a part of the Coos Bay military wagon road grant, subject to valid existing rights and as to lands withdrawn for water-power purposes to all the provisions of the Federal Power Act [[16 U.S.C. 791a](/us/usc/t16/s791a) et seq.], and to the cutting and removal of the merchantable timber on the northeast quarter southwest quarter, section 35, township 27 south, range 12 west, pursuant to a sale thereof heretofore made, are reserved and set apart as public parks and camp sites for recreational purposes and to preserve the rare groves of myrtle trees thereon, such lands to be placed under the care, control, and management of the county court of Coos County, Oregon, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe: *Provided*, That all the expense of such care, control, and management shall be paid by the said county court.

*([May 5, 1926, ch. 241, § 1](/us/act/1926-05-05/ch241/s1), [44 Stat. 397](/us/stat/44/397).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Power Act, referred to in text, was in the original “Federal water power Act of June 10, 1920 (Forty-first Statutes At Large, page 1063)”, which was redesignated the Federal Power Act by [section 791a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s791a). The Federal Power Act is [act June 10, 1920, ch. 285](/us/act/1920-06-10/ch285), [41 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/41/1063), and is classified generally to chapter 12 (§ 791a et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 791a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s791a) and Tables.
