---
title: "§ 3301. Multiyear national intelligence program"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XIV, § 1403](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXIV/s1403), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1675](/us/stat/104/1675); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, § 1502(c)(4)(B)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXV/s1502/c/4/B), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 507](/us/stat/110/507); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, § 1067(10)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tX/s1067/10), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 774](/us/stat/113/774); [Pub. L. 111–259, title VIII, § 805(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tVIII/s805/a)–(d)(1), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2748]"
---
# § 3301. Multiyear national intelligence program

##### § 3301. Multiyear national intelligence program

(a) Annual submission of multiyear national intelligence program The Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional committees specified in subsection (d) each year a multiyear national intelligence program plan reflecting the estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations required to support that program. Any such multiyear national intelligence program plan shall cover the fiscal year with respect to which the budget is submitted and at least four succeeding fiscal years.

(b) Time of submission The Director of National Intelligence shall submit the report required by subsection (a) each year at or about the same time that the budget is submitted to Congress pursuant to [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a).

(c) Consistency with budget estimates The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the estimates referred to in subsection (a) are consistent with the budget estimates submitted to Congress pursuant to [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a) for the fiscal year concerned and with the estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations for the future-years defense program submitted pursuant to [section 221 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s221).

(d) Specified congressional committees The congressional committees referred to in subsection (a) are the following:

(1) The Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.

(2) The Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XIV, § 1403](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXIV/s1403), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1675](/us/stat/104/1675); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, § 1502(c)(4)(B)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXV/s1502/c/4/B), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 507](/us/stat/110/507); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, § 1067(10)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tX/s1067/10), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 774](/us/stat/113/774); [Pub. L. 111–259, title VIII, § 805(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tVIII/s805/a)–(d)(1), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2748](/us/stat/124/2748).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 404b of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404b) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–259, § 805(d)(1)](/us/pl/111/259/s805/d/1), struck out “foreign” after “national” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–259, § 805(a)](/us/pl/111/259/s805/a), (b)(1), struck out “foreign” after “national” wherever appearing in heading and text and substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence” in text.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–259, § 805(b)(2)](/us/pl/111/259/s805/b/2), inserted “of National Intelligence” after “Director”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–259, § 805(b)(1)](/us/pl/111/259/s805/b/1), (c), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence” and “future-years defense program submitted pursuant to [section 221 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s221)” for “multiyear defense program submitted pursuant to [section 114a of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s114a)”.

1999—Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65) substituted “Committee on Armed Services” for “Committee on National Security”.

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–106, § 1502(c)(4)(B)(i)](/us/pl/104/106/s1502/c/4/B/i), substituted “the congressional committees specified in subsection (d) each year” for “the Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives each year”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 104–106, § 1502(c)(4)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/104/106/s1502/c/4/B/ii), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2023 Amendment

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title VI, § 7601](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tVI/s7601), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1096](/us/stat/137/1096), provided that: “This title [enacting sections 3344a and 3350a of this title, amending [section 3355a of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3355a), and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 3501 of Title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3501), Public Printing and Documents] may be cited as the ‘Sensible Classification Act of 2023’.”

#### Short Title of 2002 Amendment

[Pub. L. 107–306, title IX, § 901(a)](/us/pl/107/306/tIX/s901/a), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2432](/us/stat/116/2432), provided that: “This title [see Tables for classification] may be cited as the ‘Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 2002’.”

#### Short Title of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–567, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/106/567/tVII/s701), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2856](/us/stat/114/2856), provided that: “This title [enacting subchapter III–A of this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Public Interest Declassification Act of 2000’.”
