---
title: "§ 3820. Procedural rights"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3820"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3820"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 24, 1948, ch. 625](/us/act/1948-06-24/ch625), title I, § 22, as added [Pub. L. 92–129, title I, § 101(a)(36)](/us/pl/92/129/tI/s101/a/36), Sept. 28, 1971, [85 Stat. 353](/us/stat/85/353).)"
---
# § 3820. Procedural rights

##### § 3820. Procedural rights

(a) It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this section to guarantee to each registrant asserting a claim before a local or appeal board, a fair hearing consistent with the informal and expeditious processing which is required by selective service cases.

(b) Pursuant to such rules and regulations as the President may prescribe—

(1) Each registrant shall be afforded the opportunity to appear in person before the local or any appeal board of the Selective Service System to testify and present evidence regarding his status.

(2) Subject to reasonable limitations on the number of witnesses and the total time allotted to each registrant, each registrant shall have the right to present witnesses on his behalf before the local board.

(3) A quorum of any local board or appeal board shall be present during the registrant’s personal appearance.

(4) In the event of a decision adverse to the claim of a registrant, the local or appeal board making such decision shall, upon request, furnish to such registrant a brief written statement of the reasons for its decision.

*([June 24, 1948, ch. 625](/us/act/1948-06-24/ch625), title I, § 22, as added [Pub. L. 92–129, title I, § 101(a)(36)](/us/pl/92/129/tI/s101/a/36), Sept. 28, 1971, [85 Stat. 353](/us/stat/85/353).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 471a of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
