---
title: "§ 2633. Designation of national-forest areas within counties; disposition of revenues; approval by court"
identifier: "USC-T43-S2633"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section2633"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([June 24, 1954, ch. 357, § 3](/us/act/1954-06-24/ch357/s3), [68 Stat. 271](/us/stat/68/271).)"
---
# § 2633. Designation of national-forest areas within counties; disposition of revenues; approval by court

##### § 2633. Designation of national-forest areas within counties; disposition of revenues; approval by court

For the purpose of consolidating and thereby facilitating administration and accounting the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to designate in the several counties in which the lands described in [section 2631 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2631) are situated (such designation to be published in the Federal Register), an area of national-forest land of a value substantially equal to the value of the lands in such county from which all revenues shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of title II of the Act of August 28, 1937 ([50 Stat. 874](/us/stat/50/874)), and upon such designation the provisions of that Act shall be applicable to the lands so designated in lieu of the lands described in [section 2631 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2631): *Provided, however*, That such designation shall not become effective until approved by the county court of the county in which the lands are located.

*([June 24, 1954, ch. 357, § 3](/us/act/1954-06-24/ch357/s3), [68 Stat. 271](/us/stat/68/271).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of August 28, 1937, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876](/us/act/1937-08-28/ch876), [50 Stat. 874](/us/stat/50/874), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 2601 et seq.) of this chapter. Title II of the Act enacted [section 2605 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2605), repealed [section 1174 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1174), and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2601). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1181i of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1181i) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
