---
title: "§ 9241. Strategy to promote North Korean human rights"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9241"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9241"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–122, title III, § 302](/us/pl/114/122/tIII/s302), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 112](/us/stat/130/112); [Pub. L. 115–44, title III, § 321(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/44/tIII/s321/a/1), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 951](/us/stat/131/951); [Pub. L. 115–272, title III, § 303(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/272/tIII/s303/c/2), Oct. 25, 2018, [132 Stat. 4157](/us/stat/132/4157); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7122(b)(4)](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7122/b/4), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2248](/us/stat/133/2248).)"
---
# § 9241. Strategy to promote North Korean human rights

##### § 9241. Strategy to promote North Korean human rights

(a) In general Not later than 120 days after October 25, 2018, and periodically thereafter, the Secretary of State, in coordination with other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that details a United States strategy to promote initiatives to enhance international awareness of and to address the human rights situation in North Korea.

(b) Information The report required under subsection (a) should include—

(1) a list of countries that forcibly repatriate refugees from North Korea;

(2) a list of countries where North Korean laborers work, including countries the governments of which have formal arrangements with the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that Government to employ North Korean workers; and

(3) a list of foreign persons that knowingly employ North Korean laborers, as described in [section 9214(g)(1)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9214/g/1/C).

(c) Strategy The report required under subsection (a) should include—

(1) a plan to enhance bilateral and multilateral outreach, including sustained engagement with the governments of partners and allies with overseas posts to routinely demarche or brief those governments on North Korea human rights issues, including forced labor, trafficking, and repatriation of citizens of North Korea;

(2) public affairs and public diplomacy campaigns, including options to work with news organizations and media outlets to publish opinion pieces and secure public speaking opportunities for United States Government officials on issues related to the human rights situation in North Korea, including forced labor, trafficking, and repatriation of citizens of North Korea; and

(3) opportunities to coordinate and collaborate with appropriate nongovernmental organizations and private sector entities to raise awareness and provide assistance to North Korean defectors throughout the world.

*([Pub. L. 114–122, title III, § 302](/us/pl/114/122/tIII/s302), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 112](/us/stat/130/112); [Pub. L. 115–44, title III, § 321(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/44/tIII/s321/a/1), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 951](/us/stat/131/951); [Pub. L. 115–272, title III, § 303(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/272/tIII/s303/c/2), Oct. 25, 2018, [132 Stat. 4157](/us/stat/132/4157); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7122(b)(4)](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7122/b/4), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2248](/us/stat/133/2248).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) substituted “section 9214(g)(1)(C)” for “section 9214(b)(1)(M)”.

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–272](/us/pl/115/272) substituted “Not later than 120 days after October 25, 2018, and periodically thereafter” for “Not later than 180 days after February 18, 2016”.

2017—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 115–44](/us/pl/115/44) added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Additional Determinations; Reports

[Pub. L. 115–44, title III, § 321(a)(2)](/us/pl/115/44/tIII/s321/a/2), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 951](/us/stat/131/951), provided that: “With respect to any country identified in section 302(b)(2) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 ([22 U.S.C. 9241(b)(2)](/us/usc/t22/s9241/b/2)), as amended by paragraph (1), the report required under section 302(a) of such Act shall— “(A) include a determination whether each person identified in section 302(b)(3) of such Act (as amended by paragraph (1)) who is a national or a citizen of such identified country meets the criteria for sanctions under—“(i) section 111 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 ([22 U.S.C. 7108](/us/usc/t22/s7108)) (relating to the prevention of trafficking in persons); or “(ii) section 104(a) or 104(b)(1) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 ([22 U.S.C. 9214(a)](/us/usc/t22/s9214/a)[, (b)(1)]), as amended by section 101 of this Act; “(B) be included in the report required under section 110(b) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 ([22 U.S.C. 7107(b)](/us/usc/t22/s7107/b)) (relating to the annual report on trafficking in persons); and “(C) be considered in any determination that the government of such country has made serious and sustained efforts to eliminate severe forms of trafficking in persons, as such term is defined for purposes of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 [[22 U.S.C. 7101](/us/usc/t22/s7101) et seq.].”
