---
title: "§ 30119. Contributions by Government contractors"
identifier: "USC-T52-S30119"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section30119"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–225, title III, § 317](/us/pl/92/225/tIII/s317), formerly § 322, as added [Pub. L. 94–283, title I, § 112(2)](/us/pl/94/283/tI/s112/2), May 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 492](/us/stat/90/492); renumbered § 317, [Pub. L. 96–187, title I, § 105(5)](/us/pl/96/187/tI/s105/5), Jan. 8, 1980, [93 Stat. 1354](/us/stat/93/1354).)"
---
# § 30119. Contributions by Government contractors

##### § 30119. Contributions by Government contractors

(a) Prohibition It shall be unlawful for any person—

(1) who enters into any contract with the United States or any department or agency thereof either for the rendition of personal services or furnishing any material, supplies, or equipment to the United States or any department or agency thereof or for selling any land or building to the United States or any department or agency thereof, if payment for the performance of such contract or payment for such material, supplies, equipment, land, or building is to be made in whole or in part from funds appropriated by the Congress, at any time between the commencement of negotiations for and the later of (A) the completion of performance under; or (B) the termination of negotiations for, such contract or furnishing of material, supplies, equipment, land, or buildings, directly or indirectly to make any contribution of money or other things of value, or to promise expressly or impliedly to make any such contribution to any political party, committee, or candidate for public office or to any person for any political purpose or use; or

(2) knowingly to solicit any such contribution from any such person for any such purpose during any such period.

(b) Separate segregated funds This section does not prohibit or make unlawful the establishment or administration of, or the solicitation of contributions to, any separate segregated fund by any corporation, labor organization, membership organization, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock for the purpose of influencing the nomination for election, or election, of any person to Federal office, unless the provisions of [section 30118 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s30118) prohibit or make unlawful the establishment or administration of, or the solicitation of contributions to, such fund. Each specific prohibition, allowance, and duty applicable to a corporation, labor organization, or separate segregated fund under [section 30118 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s30118) applies to a corporation, labor organization, or separate segregated fund to which this subsection applies.

(c) “Labor organization” defined For purposes of this section, the term “labor organization” has the meaning given it by [section 30118(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t52/s30118/b/1).

*([Pub. L. 92–225, title III, § 317](/us/pl/92/225/tIII/s317), formerly § 322, as added [Pub. L. 94–283, title I, § 112(2)](/us/pl/94/283/tI/s112/2), May 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 492](/us/stat/90/492); renumbered § 317, [Pub. L. 96–187, title I, § 105(5)](/us/pl/96/187/tI/s105/5), Jan. 8, 1980, [93 Stat. 1354](/us/stat/93/1354).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 30118 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s30118), referred to in subsecs. (b) and (c), was in the original “section 321” meaning [section 321 of Pub. L. 92–225](/us/pl/92/225/s321) which is classified to [section 30123 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s30123). In view of the renumbering of section 321 as section 316 by [section 105(5) of Pub. L. 96–187](/us/pl/96/187/s105/5), the reference has been translated as reading “section 316” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 441c of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s441c), The Congress, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 317 of Pub. L. 92–225](/us/pl/92/225/s317) was renumbered section 313, and is classified to [section 30114 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s30114).

Another prior [section 317 of Pub. L. 92–225](/us/pl/92/225/s317) was renumbered section 312, and is classified to [section 30113 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s30113).
