---
title: "§ 4731. Border water infrastructure improvement authority"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4731"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4731"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 821](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s821), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 95](/us/stat/134/95).)"
---
# § 4731. Border water infrastructure improvement authority

##### § 4731. Border water infrastructure improvement authority

(a) In general The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall, in coordination with eligible public entities, carry out the planning, design, construction, and operation and maintenance of high priority treatment works in the covered area to treat wastewater (including stormwater), nonpoint sources of pollution, and related matters resulting from international transboundary water flows originating in Mexico.

(b) Report to Congress Not later than 1 year after January 29, 2020, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on activities carried out pursuant to this section.

(c) Definitions In this section:

(1) Covered area The term “covered area” means the portion of the Tijuana River watershed that is in the United States.

(2) Eligible public entities The term “eligible public entities” means—

(A) the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission;

(B) the Corps of Engineers;

(C) the North American Development Bank;

(D) the Department of State;

(E) any other appropriate Federal agency;

(F) the State of California; and

(G) any of the following entities with jurisdiction over any part of the covered area:

(i) A local government.

(ii) An Indian Tribe.

(iii) A regional water board.

(iv) A public wastewater utility.

(3) Treatment works The term “treatment works” has the meaning given that term in [section 1292 of title 33](/us/usc/t33/s1292).

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 821](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s821), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 95](/us/stat/134/95).)*
