---
title: "§ 15104. National Merchant Mariner Medical Advisory Committee"
identifier: "USC-T46-S15104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section15104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4283](/us/stat/132/4283).)"
---
# § 15104. National Merchant Mariner Medical Advisory Committee

##### § 15104. National Merchant Mariner Medical Advisory Committee

(a) Establishment.— There is established a National Merchant Mariner Medical Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(b) Function.— The Committee shall advise the Secretary on matters relating to—

(1) medical certification determinations for the issuance of licenses, certification of registry, and merchant mariners’ documents with respect to merchant mariners;

(2) medical standards and guidelines for the physical qualifications of operators of commercial vessels;

(3) medical examiner education; and

(4) medical research.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The Committee shall consist of 14 members appointed by the Secretary in accordance with this section and section 15109 of this chapter.

(2) Expertise.— Each member of the Committee shall have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters relating to the function of the Committee.

(3) Representation.— Members of the Committee shall be appointed as follows:

(A) 9 shall represent health-care professionals and have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience regarding the medical examinations of merchant mariners or occupational medicine.

(B) 5 shall represent professional mariners and have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in occupational requirements for mariners.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4283](/us/stat/132/4283).)*
