---
title: "§ 495. Strategic delivery systems"
identifier: "USC-T10-S495"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section495"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1035(a)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1035/a), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/126/1923); amended [Pub. L. 112–240, title VIII, § 801(a)](/us/pl/112/240/tVIII/s801/a), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2369](/us/stat/126/2369); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title X, § 1081(a)(6)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tX/s1081/a/6), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1983](/us/stat/132/1983); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVI, § 1632](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVI/s1632), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 59"
---
# § 495. Strategic delivery systems

##### § 495. Strategic delivery systems

(a) Annual Certification.— The President shall annually certify in writing to the congressional defense committees whether plans to modernize or replace strategic delivery systems are fully funded at levels equal to or more than the levels set forth in the November 2010 update to the plan referred to in section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 ([Public Law 111–84](/us/pl/111/84); [123 Stat. 2549](/us/stat/123/2549)), including plans regarding—

(1) a heavy bomber and air-launched cruise missile;

(2) an intercontinental ballistic missile;

(3) a submarine-launched ballistic missile;

(4) a ballistic missile submarine; and

(5) maintaining the nuclear command and control system (as first reported under section 1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 ([Public Law 112–81](/us/pl/112/81); [125 Stat. 1576](/us/stat/125/1576))).

(b) Additional Report Matters Following Certain Certifications.— If in any year prior to the expiration of the Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into force on February 5, 2011 (commonly referred to as the “New START Treaty”), the President certifies under subsection (a) that plans to modernize or replace strategic delivery systems are not fully funded, the President shall include in the next annual report transmitted to Congress under section 492(a) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title the following:

(1) A determination of whether or not the lack of full funding will result in a loss of military capability when compared with the November 2010 update to the plan referred to in section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.

(2) If the determination under paragraph (1) is that the lack of full funding will result in a loss of military capability—

(A) a plan to preserve or retain the military capability that would otherwise be lost; or

(B) a report setting forth—

(i) an assessment of the impact of the lack of full funding on the strategic delivery systems specified in subsection (a); and

(ii) a description of the funding required to restore or maintain the capability.

(3) A certification by the President of whether or not the President is committed to accomplishing the modernization and replacement of strategic delivery systems and will meet the obligations concerning nuclear modernization as set forth in declaration 12 of the Resolution of Advice and Consent to Ratification of the New START Treaty.

(c) Prior Notification.— Not later than 60 days before the date on which the President carries out any reduction to the number of strategic delivery systems, the President shall—

(1) make the certification under subsection (a) for the fiscal year for which the reductions are proposed to be carried out;

(2) transmit the additional report matters under subsection (b) for such fiscal year, if such additional report matters are so required; and

(3) certify to the congressional defense committees whether the Russian Federation is in compliance with its strategic arms control obligations with the United States and is not engaged in activity in violation of, or inconsistent with, such obligations.

(d) Treatment of Certain Reductions.— Any certification under subsection (a) shall not take into account the following:

(1) Reductions made to ensure the safety, security, reliability, and credibility of the nuclear weapons stockpile and strategic delivery systems, including activities related to surveillance, assessment, certification, testing, and maintenance of nuclear warheads and delivery systems.

(2) Strategic delivery systems that are retired or awaiting dismantlement on the date of the certification under subsection (a).

(e) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “New START Treaty” means the Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into force on February 5, 2011.

(2) The term “strategic delivery system” means a delivery system for nuclear weapons.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1035(a)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1035/a), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/126/1923); amended [Pub. L. 112–240, title VIII, § 801(a)](/us/pl/112/240/tVIII/s801/a), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2369](/us/stat/126/2369); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title X, § 1081(a)(6)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tX/s1081/a/6), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1983](/us/stat/132/1983); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVI, § 1632](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVI/s1632), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 592](/us/stat/137/592).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), is [section 1251 of Pub. L. 111–84](/us/pl/111/84/s1251), which is set out as a note under [section 6114 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s6114).

Section 1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, referred to in subsec. (a)(5), is [section 1043 of Pub. L. 112–81](/us/pl/112/81/s1043), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1576](/us/stat/125/1576), which is not classified to the Code.

[Section 492(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s492/a), referred to in subsec. (b), relates to biennial assessments by certain military officials of delivery platforms for nuclear weapons and the nuclear command and control system. [Section 492a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s492a/a) requires the President to transmit biennial reports to Congress on certain nuclear matters.

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31), in introductory provisions, substituted “prior to the expiration of the Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into force on February 5, 2011 (commonly referred to as the ‘New START Treaty’),” for “before fiscal year 2020” and “492(a) of this title” for “1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012”.

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) substituted “The” for “Beginning in fiscal year 2013, the” in introductory provisions.

2013—Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 112–240](/us/pl/112/240) substituted “whether the Russian Federation” for “that the Russian Federation” and inserted “strategic” before “arms control obligations”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

[Pub. L. 112–240, title VIII, § 801(b)](/us/pl/112/240/tVIII/s801/b), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2369](/us/stat/126/2369), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 [[Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239)].”

#### Congressional Notification of Decision To Delay Strategic Delivery System Test Event

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVI, § 1648](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVI/s1648), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 600](/us/stat/137/600), provided that: “(a) Notification.—Not later than five days after the Secretary of Defense makes a decision to delay a scheduled test event for a strategic delivery system, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] written notice of such decision. “(b) Report.—“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (3), not later than 60 days after the submission of a notification required under subsection (a) with respect to a decision to delay a scheduled test event, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the decision. “(2) Elements required.—A report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include each of the following with respect to the scheduled test event covered by the report:“(A) A description of the objectives of the test. “(B) An explanation for the decision to cancel the test. “(C) An estimate of expenditures related to the cancelled test. “(D) An assessment of the effect of the test cancellation on—“(i) confidence in the reliability of the strategic nuclear weapons delivery system involved; and “(ii) any research, development, test, and evaluation activities related to the test. “(E) A plan to reschedule the test event. “(3) Exception.—A report shall not be required under paragraph (1) in the case of a decision to delay a scheduled test event due to any of the following circumstances:“(A) Unfavorable weather conditions. “(B) Safety concerns. “(C) Technical issues related to the delivery system or test facility. “(D) Operational or security concerns at the test facility or on the test range.”

#### Retention of Capability To Redeploy Multiple Independently Targetable Reentry Vehicles

[Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title X, § 1057](/us/pl/113/66/dA/tX/s1057), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 864](/us/stat/127/864), as amended by [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVI, § 1638](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVI/s1638), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 594](/us/stat/137/594), provided that: “(a) Deployment Capability.—The Secretary of the Air Force shall ensure that the Air Force is capable of—“(1) deploying multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles to Minuteman III and Sentinel intercontinental ballistic missiles; and “(2) commencing such deployment not later than 180 days after the date on which the President determines such deployment necessary. “(b) Warhead Capability.—The Nuclear Weapons Council established by [section 179 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s179), United States Code, shall ensure that—“(1) the nuclear weapons stockpile contains a sufficient number of nuclear warheads that are capable of being deployed as multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles with respect to Minuteman III and Sentinel intercontinental ballistic missiles; and “(2) such deployment is capable of being commenced not later than 180 days after the date on which the President determines such deployment necessary.”

#### Senses of Congress on Ensuring the Modernization of the Nuclear Forces of the United States

[Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title X, § 1062(a)](/us/pl/113/66/dA/tX/s1062/a), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 866](/us/stat/127/866), provided that: “It is the policy of the United States to— “(1) modernize or replace the triad of strategic nuclear delivery systems; “(2) proceed with a robust stockpile stewardship program; “(3) maintain and modernize the nuclear weapons production capabilities that will ensure the safety, security, reliability, and performance of the nuclear forces of the United States at the levels required by the New START Treaty; and “(4) underpin deterrence by meeting the requirements for hedging against possible international developments or technical problems, in accordance with the policies of the United States.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority Pursuant to Section 1035 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013

Memorandum of President of the United States, June 29, 2015, 80 F.R. 37921, provided:

Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including [section 301 of title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), United States Code, I hereby order as follows:

I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense the authority to fulfill the certification requirement specified in section 1035 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 ([Public Law 112–239](/us/pl/112/239)) [probably means [section 495 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s495), as added by [section 1035 of Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239/s1035)].

Any reference in this memorandum to section 1035 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 shall be deemed to be a reference to any future provision that is the same or substantially the same provision.

You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
