---
title: "§ 338. Election to perfect entry; final proof"
identifier: "USC-T43-S338"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section338"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 147, § 5](/us/act/1915-03-04/ch147/s5), [38 Stat. 1162](/us/stat/38/1162); [Mar. 21, 1918, ch. 26](/us/act/1918-03-21/ch26), [40 Stat. 458](/us/stat/40/458); [Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, § 1](/us/act/1921-10-28/ch114/s1), [42 Stat. 208](/us/stat/42/208); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1145](/us/stat/43/1145); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 338. Election to perfect entry; final proof

##### § 338. Election to perfect entry; final proof

Any desert-land entryman or his assignee entitled to the benefit of [section 337 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s337) may, if he shall so elect within sixty days from the notice therein provided, pay to the officer designated by the Secretary of the Interior of the local land office the sum of 50 cents per acre for each acre embraced in the entry, and thereafter perfect such entry upon proof that he has upon the tract permanent improvements conducive to the agricultural development thereof of the value of not less than $1.25 per acre, and that he has, in good faith, used the land for agricultural purposes for three years and the payment to the officer, at the time of final proof, of the sum of 75 cents per acre: *Provided*, That in such case final proof may be submitted at any time within five years from the date of the entryman’s election to proceed as provided in this section, and in the event of failure to perfect the entry as herein provided, all moneys theretofore paid shall be forfeited and the entry canceled: *Provided*, That in cases where such entries have been assigned prior to March 4, 1915, the assignees shall, if otherwise qualified, be entitled to the benefit hereof.

*([Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 147, § 5](/us/act/1915-03-04/ch147/s5), [38 Stat. 1162](/us/stat/38/1162); [Mar. 21, 1918, ch. 26](/us/act/1918-03-21/ch26), [40 Stat. 458](/us/stat/40/458); [Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, § 1](/us/act/1921-10-28/ch114/s1), [42 Stat. 208](/us/stat/42/208); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1145](/us/stat/43/1145); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of fourth paragraph of section 5 of act Mar. 4, 1915. First paragraph of such section 5, which was classified to section 26 of former Title 41, Public Contracts, was repealed by [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title VI, § 602(a)(26)](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288/tVI/s602/a/26), [63 Stat. 401](/us/stat/63/401), eff. July 1, 1949, renumbered [Sept. 5, 1950, ch. 849, § 6(a)](/us/act/1950-09-05/ch849/s6/a), (b), [64 Stat. 583](/us/stat/64/583); second and third paragraphs of such section 5 are classified to sections 335 and 337 of this title, respectively.

Act Mar. 21, 1918 added the last proviso.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

“Officer designated by the Secretary of the Interior” substituted for “register” on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946, which abolished all registers of district land offices and transferred functions of register of district land offices to Secretary of the Interior. See section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3, of 1946, set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1). Previously, references to “receiver” changed to “register” by acts Oct. 28, 1921, and Mar. 3, 1925, which consolidated offices of register and receiver and provided for a single officer to be known as register.
