---
title: "§ 1356c. Wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf offshore of territories of the United States"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1356c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1356c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345, § 33](/us/act/1953-08-07/ch345/s33), as added [Pub. L. 117–169, title V, § 50251(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/169/tV/s50251/b/2), Aug. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2055](/us/stat/136/2055).)"
---
# § 1356c. Wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf offshore of territories of the United States

##### § 1356c. Wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf offshore of territories of the United States

(a) 11 So in original. There is no subsec. (b). Wind lease sales off coasts of territories of the United States

(1) Call for information and nominations

(A) In general The Secretary shall issue calls for information and nominations for proposed wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf described in paragraph (2) that are determined to be feasible.

(B) Initial call Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary shall issue an initial call for information and nominations under this paragraph.

(2) Conditional wind lease sales The Secretary may conduct wind lease sales in each area within the exclusive economic zone of the United States adjacent to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands that meets each of the following criteria:

(A) The Secretary has concluded that a wind lease sale in the area is feasible.

(B) The Secretary has determined that there is sufficient interest in leasing the area.

(C) The Secretary has consulted with the Governor of the territory regarding the suitability of the area for wind energy development.

*([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345, § 33](/us/act/1953-08-07/ch345/s33), as added [Pub. L. 117–169, title V, § 50251(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/169/tV/s50251/b/2), Aug. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2055](/us/stat/136/2055).)*
