---
title: "§ 202. Control; rules and regulations; fish and game; leases; automobiles; stock grazing"
identifier: "USC-T16-S202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Aug. 9, 1916, ch. 302, § 2](/us/act/1916-08-09/ch302/s2), [39 Stat. 444](/us/stat/39/444).)"
---
# § 202. Control; rules and regulations; fish and game; leases; automobiles; stock grazing

##### § 202. Control; rules and regulations; fish and game; leases; automobiles; stock grazing

Lassen Volcanic National Park shall be under the exclusive control of the Secretary of the Interior, whose duty it shall be, as soon as practicable, to make and publish such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the laws of the United States as he may deem necessary or proper for the care, protection, management, and improvement of the same. Such regulations being primarily aimed at the freest use of the said park for recreation purposes by the public and for the preservation from injury or spoliation of all timber, mineral deposits, and natural curiosities or wonders within said park and their retention in their natural condition as far as practicable and for the preservation of the park in a state of nature so far as is consistent with the purposes of this section and sections 201 and 203 of this title. He shall provide against the wanton destruction of the fish and game found within said park and against their capture or destruction for purposes of merchandise or profit, and generally shall be authorized to take all such measures as shall be necessary to fully carry out the objects and purposes of this section and sections 201 and 203 of this title. Said Secretary may, in his discretion, execute leases to parcels of ground not exceeding ten acres in extent at any one place to any one person or persons or company for not to exceed twenty years when such ground is necessary for the erection of buildings for the accommodation of visitors and to parcels of ground not exceeding one acre in extent and for not to exceed twenty years to persons who have heretofore erected, or whom he may hereafter authorize to erect, summer homes or cottages. Such leases or privileges may be renewed or extended at the expiration of the terms thereof. No exclusive privilege, however, shall be granted within the park except upon the ground leased. The regulations governing the park shall include provisions for the use of automobiles therein and the reasonable grazing of stock.

*([Aug. 9, 1916, ch. 302, § 2](/us/act/1916-08-09/ch302/s2), [39 Stat. 444](/us/stat/39/444).)*
