---
title: "§ 115. Ohio"
identifier: "USC-T28-S115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 887](/us/stat/62/887); [Feb. 10, 1954, ch. 6, § 2(b)(9)](/us/act/1954-02-10/ch6/s2/b/9), [68 Stat. 11](/us/stat/68/11); [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title I, § 11021](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tI/s11021), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1829](/us/stat/116/1829).)"
---
# § 115. Ohio

##### § 115. Ohio

Ohio is divided into two judicial districts to be known as the Northern and Southern Districts of Ohio.

Northern District

(a) The Northern District comprises two divisions.

(1) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Ashland, Ashtabula, Carroll, Columbiana, Crawford, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Holmes, Lake, Lorain, Mahoning, Medina, Portage, Richland, Stark, Summit, Trumbull, Tuscarawas, and Wayne.

Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Cleveland, Youngstown, and Akron.

(2) The Western Division comprises the counties of Allen, Auglaize, Defiance, Erie, Fulton, Hancock, Hardin, Henry, Huron, Lucas, Marion, Mercer, Ottawa, Paulding, Putnam, Sandusky, Seneca, Van Wert, Williams, Woods, and Wyandot.

Court for the Western Division shall be held at Lima and Toledo.

Southern District

(b) The Southern District comprises two divisions.

(1) The Western Division comprises the counties of Adams, Brown, Butler, Champaign, Clark, Clermont, Clinton, Darke, Greene, Hamilton, Highland, Lawrence, Miami, Montgomery, Preble, Scioto, Shelby, and Warren.

Court for the Western Division shall be held at Cincinnati and Dayton.

(2) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Athens, Belmont, Coshocton, Delaware, Fairfield, Fayette, Franklin, Gallia, Guernsey, Harrison, Hocking, Jackson, Jefferson, Knox, Licking, Logan, Madison, Meigs, Monroe, Morgan, Morrow, Muskingum, Noble, Perry, Pickaway, Pike, Ross, Union, Vinton, and Washington.

Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at Columbus 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. St. Clairsville, and Steubenville.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 887](/us/stat/62/887); [Feb. 10, 1954, ch. 6, § 2(b)(9)](/us/act/1954-02-10/ch6/s2/b/9), [68 Stat. 11](/us/stat/68/11); [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title I, § 11021](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tI/s11021), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1829](/us/stat/116/1829).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 181 ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 100](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s100), [36 Stat. 1121](/us/stat/36/1121); [Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 159](/us/act/1915-03-04/ch159), [38 Stat. 1187](/us/stat/38/1187); [Feb. 14, 1923, ch. 78](/us/act/1923-02-14/ch78), [42 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/42/1246)).

Other provisions of said [section 181 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s181), U.S.C., 1940 ed., are incorporated in [section 1865 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1865).

Provisions relating to the place of institution or trial of prosecutions and civil actions and transfer thereof were omitted. Such provisions, as to civil cases, are covered by section 1391 et seq. of this title, and as to criminal cases, are rendered unnecessary because of inherent power of the court and Rules 18–20 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure relating to venue.

The provision respecting court accommodations at Lima was omitted as covered by [section 142 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s142).

Changes were made in arrangement and phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273), which directed amendment of par. (2) by inserting “St. Clairsville,” after “Columbus,”, was executed by making the insertion after “Columbus”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

1954—Subsec. (a)(1). Act Feb. 10, 1954, provided for holding court at Akron.
