---
title: "§ 460u–6. Administration"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460u–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460u–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–761, § 6](/us/pl/89/761/s6), formerly § 7, Nov. 5, 1966, [80 Stat. 1311](/us/stat/80/1311); renumbered § 6, [Pub. L. 94–549, § 1(9)](/us/pl/94/549/s1/9), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2533](/us/stat/90/2533); amended [Pub. L. 116–6, div. E, title I, § 115(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/6/dE/tI/s115/a/1/B), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 232](/us/stat/133/232).)"
---
# § 460u–6. Administration

##### § 460u–6. Administration

(a) Utilization of authorities for conservation and management of natural resources In the administration of the Park the Secretary may utilize such statutory authorities relating to areas of the national park system and such statutory authority otherwise available to him for the conservation and management of natural resources as he deems appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

(b) Preservation of Park; incompatible visitor conveniences restricted; provisions for public enjoyment and understanding; developments for public uses In order that the Park shall be permanently preserved in its present state, no development or plan for the convenience of visitors shall be undertaken therein which would be incompatible with the preservation of the unique flora and fauna or the physiographic conditions now prevailing or with the preservation of such historic sites and structures as the Secretary may designate: *Provided*, That the Secretary may provide for the public enjoyment and understanding of the unique natural, historic, and scientific features within the Park by establishing such trails, observation points, and exhibits and providing such services as he may deem desirable for such public enjoyment and understanding: *Provided further*, That the Secretary may develop for appropriate public uses such portions of the Park as he deems especially adaptable for such uses.

*([Pub. L. 89–761, § 6](/us/pl/89/761/s6), formerly § 7, Nov. 5, 1966, [80 Stat. 1311](/us/stat/80/1311); renumbered § 6, [Pub. L. 94–549, § 1(9)](/us/pl/94/549/s1/9), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2533](/us/stat/90/2533); amended [Pub. L. 116–6, div. E, title I, § 115(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/6/dE/tI/s115/a/1/B), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 232](/us/stat/133/232).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 6 of Pub. L. 89–761](/us/pl/89/761/s6) was renumbered section 5 and is classified to [section 460u–5 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460u–5).

#### Amendments

2019—[Pub. L. 116–6](/us/pl/116/6) substituted “Park” for “lakeshore” wherever appearing.
