---
title: "§ 5422. Administrative services and support"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5422"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5422"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–638, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/93/638/tVIII/s802), formerly title V, § 502, as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title XIII, § 1302](/us/pl/106/568/tXIII/s1302), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2938](/us/stat/114/2938); renumbered title VIII, § 802, and amended [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 231(d)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s231/d), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2278](/us/stat/124/2278).)"
---
# § 5422. Administrative services and support

##### § 5422. Administrative services and support

(a) Provision of support by Secretary Subject to subsection (b) of this section, during the 5-year period beginning on the date that the Foundation is established, the Secretary—

(1) may provide personnel, facilities, and other administrative support services to the Foundation;

(2) may provide funds to reimburse the travel expenses of the members of the Board under [section 5421 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5421); and

(3) shall require and accept reimbursements from the Foundation for any—

(A) services provided under paragraph (1); and

(B) funds provided under paragraph (2).

(b) Reimbursements Reimbursements accepted under subsection (a)(3) of this section shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations then current and chargeable for the cost of providing services described in subsection (a)(1) of this section and the travel expenses described in subsection (a)(2) of this section.

(c) Continuation of certain services Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary may continue to provide facilities and necessary support services to the Foundation after the termination of the 5-year period specified in subsection (a) of this section, on a space available, reimbursable cost basis.

*([Pub. L. 93–638, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/93/638/tVIII/s802), formerly title V, § 502, as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title XIII, § 1302](/us/pl/106/568/tXIII/s1302), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2938](/us/stat/114/2938); renumbered title VIII, § 802, and amended [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 231(d)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s231/d), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2278](/us/stat/124/2278).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 458ddd–1 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s458ddd–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 111–211, § 231(d)(3)](/us/pl/111/211/s231/d/3), substituted reference to [section 5421 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5421) for reference to former [section 458bbb of this title](/us/usc/t25/s458bbb).
