---
title: "§ 19062. Accelerating unmanned maritime systems technologies"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19062"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19062"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10353](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10353), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1561](/us/stat/136/1561).)"
---
# § 19062. Accelerating unmanned maritime systems technologies

##### § 19062. Accelerating unmanned maritime systems technologies

(a) In general In order to support advances in marine science, maritime domain awareness, and national security the Director, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and the Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall issue awards, on a competitive basis, to institutions of higher education or nonprofit organizations (or consortia of such institutions or organizations) to support research that will accelerate innovation to advance unmanned maritime systems for the purpose of providing greater maritime domain awareness to the Nation.

(b) Coordination In implementing this section, the Director shall coordinate with the Coast Guard, the Department of Defense, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and other Federal agencies, including those established under the Commercial Engagement Through Ocean Technology Act of 2018 ([Public Law 115–394](/us/pl/115/394)) [[33 U.S.C. 4101](/us/usc/t33/s4101) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10353](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10353), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1561](/us/stat/136/1561).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Commercial Engagement Through Ocean Technology Act of 2018, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 115–394](/us/pl/115/394), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5281](/us/stat/132/5281), also known as the CENOTE Act of 2018, which is classified generally to chapter 54 (§ 4101 et seq.) of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short title note set out under [section 4101 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s4101) and Tables.
