---
title: "§ 13102. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–508, title VI, § 6603](/us/pl/101/508/tVI/s6603), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–321](/us/stat/104/1388-321).)"
---
# § 13102. Definitions

##### § 13102. Definitions

(1) The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

(2) The term “Agency” means the Environmental Protection Agency.

(3) The term “toxic chemical” means any substance on the list described in [section 11023(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11023/c).

(4) The term “release” has the same meaning as provided by [section 11049(8) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11049/8).

(5)

(A) The term “source reduction” means any practice which—

The term includes equipment or technology modifications, process or procedure modifications, reformulation or redesign of products, substitution of raw materials, and improvements in housekeeping, maintenance, training, or inventory control.

(i) reduces the amount of any hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant entering any waste stream or otherwise released into the environment (including fugitive emissions) prior to recycling, treatment, or disposal; and

(ii) reduces the hazards to public health and the environment associated with the release of such substances, pollutants, or contaminants.

(B) The term “source reduction” does not include any practice which alters the physical, chemical, or biological characteristics or the volume of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant through a process or activity which itself is not integral to and necessary for the production of a product or the providing of a service.

(6) The term “multi-media” means water, air, and land.

(7) The term “SIC codes” refers to the 2-digit code numbers used for classification of economic activity in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual.

*([Pub. L. 101–508, title VI, § 6603](/us/pl/101/508/tVI/s6603), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–321](/us/stat/104/1388-321).)*
