---
title: "§ 2353. Imposition of sanctions with respect to fentanyl trafficking by transnational criminal organizations"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2353"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2353"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–50, div. E, title I, § 3103](/us/pl/118/50/dE/tI/s3103), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 936](/us/stat/138/936).)"
---
# § 2353. Imposition of sanctions with respect to fentanyl trafficking by transnational criminal organizations

##### § 2353. Imposition of sanctions with respect to fentanyl trafficking by transnational criminal organizations

(a) In general The President shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person the President determines—

(1) is knowingly involved in the significant trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids, including such trafficking by a transnational criminal organization; or

(2) otherwise is knowingly involved in significant activities of a transnational criminal organization relating to the trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids.

(b) Sanctions described The President, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.), may block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in property of a foreign person described in subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.

(c) Report required Not later than 180 days after April 24, 2024, and annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on actions taken by the executive branch with respect to the foreign persons identified under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 118–50, div. E, title I, § 3103](/us/pl/118/50/dE/tI/s3103), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 936](/us/stat/138/936).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is title II of [Pub. L. 95–223](/us/pl/95/223), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/91/1626), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s1701) and Tables.
