---
title: "§ 4573. Senate pay adjustments; action by President pro tempore of Senate"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4573"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4573"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–520, title III, § 315](/us/pl/101/520/tIII/s315), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2283](/us/stat/104/2283); [Pub. L. 102–90, title III, § 308](/us/pl/102/90/tIII/s308), Aug. 14, 1991, [105 Stat. 466](/us/stat/105/466); [Pub. L. 116–94, div. E, title II, § 212(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/116/94/dE/tII/s212/a/2/B), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/133/2775); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title II, § 213(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tII/s213/a/2/B), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 527](/us/stat/136/527).)"
---
# § 4573. Senate pay adjustments; action by President pro tempore of Senate

##### § 4573. Senate pay adjustments; action by President pro tempore of Senate

(a) Whenever, after November 5, 1990, there is an adjustment in rates of pay for Senators (other than an adjustment which occurs by virtue of an adjustment under [section 5303 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5303) in rates of pay under the General Schedule), the President pro tempore of the Senate may, notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or regulation, adjust the rate of pay (and any minimum or maximum rate, limitation, or allowance) applicable to personnel whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate (including such personnel appointed to positions for which the specific amount of the rate of pay for the particular position is fixed by statute on the day before the effective date of the amendments made by section 212 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2020 and such personnel appointed to positions for which the maximum rates of pay for the particular positions were fixed by or pursuant to law on the day before such effective date), subject to [section 4575(f) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4575/f).

(b) Adjustments made by the President pro tempore under this section shall be made in such manner as he considers advisable and shall have the force and effect of law.

*([Pub. L. 101–520, title III, § 315](/us/pl/101/520/tIII/s315), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2283](/us/stat/104/2283); [Pub. L. 102–90, title III, § 308](/us/pl/102/90/tIII/s308), Aug. 14, 1991, [105 Stat. 466](/us/stat/105/466); [Pub. L. 116–94, div. E, title II, § 212(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/116/94/dE/tII/s212/a/2/B), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/133/2775); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title II, § 213(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tII/s213/a/2/B), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 527](/us/stat/136/527).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (a), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.

The effective date of the amendments made by section 212 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2020, referred to in subsec. (a), is the effective date of [section 212 of div. E of Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94/dE/s212). See Effective Date of 2019 Amendment note below.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 60a–1b of this title](/us/usc/t2/s60a–1b) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) substituted “, subject to [section 4575(f) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4575/f).” for “to the extent necessary to maintain the pay relationships that existed on such effective date between the maximum rate of pay for Senate personnel and Senators.”

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94) substituted “(including such personnel appointed to positions for which the specific amount of the rate of pay for the particular position is fixed by statute on the day before the effective date of the amendments made by section 212 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2020 and such personnel appointed to positions for which the maximum rates of pay for the particular positions were fixed by or pursuant to law on the day before such effective date) to the extent necessary to maintain the pay relationships that existed on such effective date between the maximum rate of pay for Senate personnel and Senators.” for “to the extent necessary to maintain the same pay relationships that existed on December 31, 1986, between personnel and Senators and between positions.”

1991—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–90](/us/pl/102/90) substituted “5303” for “5305”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) effective on the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 213(b) of div. I of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dI/s213/b), set out as a note under [section 4571 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4571).

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94) effective on the later of the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after Jan. 1, 2020, or the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after Dec. 20, 2019, see [section 212(c) of div. E of Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94/dE/s212/c), set out as a note under [section 282b of this title](/us/usc/t2/s282b).
