---
title: "§ 1652. Contracts with, and grants to, urban Indian organizations"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1652"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1652"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 502](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s502), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title V, § 501](/us/pl/100/713/tV/s501), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4820](/us/stat/102/4820); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 501(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s501/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4567](/us/stat/106/4567); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1652. Contracts with, and grants to, urban Indian organizations

##### § 1652. Contracts with, and grants to, urban Indian organizations

(a) In general Pursuant to [section 13 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s13), the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall enter into contracts with, or make grants to, urban Indian organizations to assist the urban Indian organizations in the establishment and administration, within urban centers, of programs that meet the requirements of this subchapter.

(b) Conditions Subject to [section 1656 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1656), the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall include such conditions as the Secretary considers necessary to effect the purpose of this subchapter in any contract into which the Secretary enters with, or in any grant the Secretary makes to, any urban Indian organization pursuant to this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 502](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s502), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title V, § 501](/us/pl/100/713/tV/s501), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4820](/us/stat/102/4820); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 501(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s501/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4567](/us/stat/106/4567); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on section 163(b) of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1652, [Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 502](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s502), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1410](/us/stat/90/1410); [Pub. L. 96–537, § 7](/us/pl/96/537/s7), Dec. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 3177](/us/stat/94/3177), related to contracts with urban and rural Indian organizations, prior to the general revision of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 100–713](/us/pl/100/713).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Under authority of [section 13 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s13), the Secretary, through the Service, shall enter into contracts with, or make grants to, urban Indian organizations to assist such organizations in the establishment and administration, within the urban centers in which such organizations are situated, of programs which meet the requirements set forth in this subchapter. The Secretary, through the Service, shall include such conditions as the Secretary considers necessary to effect the purpose of this subchapter in any contract which the Secretary enters into with, or in any grant the Secretary makes to, any urban Indian organization pursuant to this subchapter.”

1992—[Pub. L. 102–573](/us/pl/102/573) substituted “Contracts with, and grants to, urban Indian organizations” for “Contracts with urban Indian organizations” in section catchline, and in text substituted “contracts with, or make grants to,” for “contracts with” and inserted “, or in any grant the Secretary makes to,” after “enters into with”.
