---
title: "§ 123. Settlement, residence, lumbering, or business within park punishable; admission of visitors"
identifier: "USC-T16-S123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([May 22, 1902, ch. 820, § 3](/us/act/1902-05-22/ch820/s3), [32 Stat. 203](/us/stat/32/203); [Pub. L. 94–429, § 3(a)](/us/pl/94/429/s3/a), Sept. 28, 1976, [90 Stat. 1342](/us/stat/90/1342).)"
---
# § 123. Settlement, residence, lumbering, or business within park punishable; admission of visitors

##### § 123. Settlement, residence, lumbering, or business within park punishable; admission of visitors

It shall be unlawful for any person to establish any settlement or residence within Crater Lake National Park, or to engage in any lumbering, or other enterprise or business occupation therein, or to enter therein for any speculative purpose whatever, and any person violating the provisions of this section or sections 121 and 122 of this title, or the rules and regulations established thereunder, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment for not more than one year, and shall further be liable for all destruction of timber or other property of the United States in consequence of any such unlawful act. Crater Lake National Park shall be open, under such regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe, to all scientists, excursionists, and pleasure seekers. Restaurant and hotel keepers, upon application to the Secretary of the Interior, may be permitted by him to establish places of entertainment within the Crater Lake National Park for the accommodation of visitors, at places and under regulations fixed by the Secretary of the Interior, and not otherwise.

*([May 22, 1902, ch. 820, § 3](/us/act/1902-05-22/ch820/s3), [32 Stat. 203](/us/stat/32/203); [Pub. L. 94–429, § 3(a)](/us/pl/94/429/s3/a), Sept. 28, 1976, [90 Stat. 1342](/us/stat/90/1342).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1976—[Pub. L. 94–429](/us/pl/94/429) struck out provision that the park be open, under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, to the location and working of mining claims.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Mining Rights Existing Prior to 1976 Amendment

[Section 3 of Pub. L. 94–429](/us/pl/94/429/s3) provided in part that this section was amended as indicated in order to close area to entry and location under the Mining Law of 1872, subject to valid existing rights.
