---
title: "§ 410cc–35. Powers of Commission"
identifier: "USC-T16-S410cc–35"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section410cc–35"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–290, title III, § 305](/us/pl/95/290/tIII/s305), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 302](/us/stat/92/302).)"
---
# § 410cc–35. Powers of Commission

##### § 410cc–35. Powers of Commission

(a) Conduct of hearings, etc. The Commission may for the purpose of carrying out this subchapter hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission may deem advisable. The Commission may administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses appearing before it.

(b) Authorization of action by member or agent When so authorized by the Commission, any member or agent of the Commission may take any action which the Commission is authorized to take by this section.

(c) Receipt of necessary information from other Federal departments or agencies; information furnished upon request by chairman Subject to [section 552a of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a), the Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of the United States information necessary to enable it to carry out this subchapter. Upon request of the chairman of the Commission, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission.

(d) Authorization to seek and accept donations of funds, property, or services Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission may seek and accept donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, and other private entities, and from public entities, for the purpose of carrying out its duties.

(e) Use of funds for obtaining additional moneys The Commission may use its funds to obtain money from any source under any program or law requiring the recipient of such money to make a contribution in order to receive such money.

(f) Use of mails The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and upon the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the United States.

(g) Purchase, rental, donation, etc., of property, facilities, and services; manner of acquisition; transfers to Department of the Interior upon termination of Commission The Commission may obtain by purchase, rental, donation, or otherwise, such property, facilities, and services as may be needed to carry out its duties. Any acquisition of property by the Commission shall be in accordance with [section 410cc–34 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s410cc–34): *Provided, however*, That the Commission may not acquire lands or interests therein pursuant to this subsection by condemnation. Upon the termination of the Commission, all property, personal and real, and unexpended funds shall be transferred to the Department of the Interior.

*([Pub. L. 95–290, title III, § 305](/us/pl/95/290/tIII/s305), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 302](/us/stat/92/302).)*
