---
title: "§ 9821. Nondiscrimination provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9821"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9821"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–35, title VI, § 632](/us/pl/97/35/tVI/s632), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 498](/us/stat/95/498).)"
---
# § 9821. Nondiscrimination provisions

##### § 9821. Nondiscrimination provisions

(a) The Secretary shall not provide financial assistance for any program, project, or activity under this subchapter unless the grant or contract with respect thereto specifically provides that no person with responsibilities in the operation thereof will discriminate with respect to any such program, project, or activity because of race, creed, color, national origin, sex, political affiliation, or beliefs.

(b) No person in the United States shall on the ground of sex be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, be subjected to discrimination under, or be denied employment in connection with any program or activity receiving assistance under this subchapter. The Secretary shall enforce the provisions of the preceding sentence in accordance with [section 2000d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–1). [Section 2000d–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–2) shall apply with respect to any action taken by the Secretary to enforce such sentence. This section shall not be construed as affecting any other legal remedy that a person may have if such person is excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, subjected to discrimination under, or denied employment in connection with, any program, project, or activity receiving assistance under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 97–35, title VI, § 632](/us/pl/97/35/tVI/s632), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 498](/us/stat/95/498).)*
