---
title: "§ 5326. Indian Health Service: availability of funds for Indian self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5326"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5326"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(e) [title II]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/e/tII), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–231](/us/stat/112/2681-231), 2681–280.)"
---
# § 5326. Indian Health Service: availability of funds for Indian self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs

##### § 5326. Indian Health Service: availability of funds for Indian self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs

Before, on, and after October 21, 1998, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds available to the Indian Health Service in this Act or any other Act for Indian self-determination or self-governance contract or grant support costs may be expended only for costs directly attributable to contracts, grants and compacts pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act [[25 U.S.C. 5321](/us/usc/t25/s5321) et seq.] and no funds appropriated by this or any other Act shall be available for any contract support costs or indirect costs associated with any contract, grant, cooperative agreement, self-governance compact, or funding agreement entered into between an Indian tribe or tribal organization and any entity other than the Indian Health Service.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(e) [title II]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/e/tII), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–231](/us/stat/112/2681-231), 2681–280.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in text, is title I of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/88/2206), which is classified principally to this subchapter (§ 5321 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, and not as part of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 450j–2 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s450j–2) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
