---
title: "§ 7654. Food Safety Research Information Office"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7654"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7654"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, § 615](/us/pl/105/185/tVI/s615), June 23, 1998, [112 Stat. 606](/us/stat/112/606); [Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, § 7301(a)](/us/pl/107/171/tVII/s7301/a), (b)(1), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 454](/us/stat/116/454).)"
---
# § 7654. Food Safety Research Information Office

##### § 7654. Food Safety Research Information Office

(a) Establishment The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a Food Safety Research Information Office at the National Agricultural Library.

(b) Purpose The Office shall provide to the research community and the general public information on publicly funded, and to the maximum extent practicable, privately funded food safety research initiatives for the purpose of—

(1) preventing unintended duplication of food safety research; and

(2) assisting the executive and legislative branches of the Federal Government and private research entities to assess food safety research needs and priorities.

(c) Cooperation The Office shall carry out this section in cooperation with the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, public institutions, and, on a voluntary basis, private research entities.

*([Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, § 615](/us/pl/105/185/tVI/s615), June 23, 1998, [112 Stat. 606](/us/stat/112/606); [Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, § 7301(a)](/us/pl/107/171/tVII/s7301/a), (b)(1), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 454](/us/stat/116/454).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—[Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171) struck out “and national conference” after “Information Office” in section catchline, struck out subsec. (a) designation and heading, redesignated pars. (1) to (3) of former subsec. (a) as subsecs. (a) to (c), respectively, and subpars. (A) and (B) of former par. (2) as pars. (1) and (2) of subsec. (b), respectively, realigned margins, substituted “this section” for “this subsection” in subsec. (c), and struck out former subsecs. (b) and (c) which related to national conference and annual workshops and food safety report, respectively.
