---
title: "§ 44507. Regions and centers"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1179](/us/stat/108/1179); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title V, § 524(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tV/s524/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3363](/us/stat/132/3363); [Pub. L. 118–63, title II, § 206(h)](/us/pl/118/63/tII/s206/h), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1046](/us/stat/138/1046).)"
---
# § 44507. Regions and centers

##### § 44507. Regions and centers

(1) conduct civil aeromedical research, including research related to—

(A) the protection and survival of aircraft occupants;

(B) medical accident investigation and airman medical certification;

(C) toxicology and the effects of drugs on human performance;

(D) the impact of disease and disability on human performance;

(E) vision and its relationship to human performance and equipment design;

(F) human factors of flight crews, air traffic controllers, mechanics, inspectors, airway facility technicians, and other individuals involved in operating and maintaining aircraft and air traffic control equipment; and

(G) agency work force optimization, including training, equipment design, reduction of errors, and identification of candidate tasks for automation;

(2) make comments to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration on human factors aspects of proposed air safety regulations;

(3) make comments to the Administrator on human factors aspects of proposed training programs, equipment requirements, standards, and procedures for aviation personnel;

(4) advise, assist, and represent the Federal Aviation Administration in the human factors aspects of joint projects between the Administration and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, other departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States Government, industry, and governments of foreign countries; and

(5) provide medical consultation services to the Administrator about medical certification of airmen.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1179](/us/stat/108/1179); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title V, § 524(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tV/s524/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3363](/us/stat/132/3363); [Pub. L. 118–63, title II, § 206(h)](/us/pl/118/63/tII/s206/h), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1046](/us/stat/138/1046).)*

In clause (4), the words “departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States Government” are substituted for “Government agencies” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 44507 | 49 App.:1353(e). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 312(e); added Nov. 3, 1988, Pub. L. 100–591, § 5(b), 102 Stat. 3013. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—[Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63) struck out subsec. (a) designation and heading “Civil Aeromedical Institute” at beginning of section and struck out subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (b) read as follows: “The Secretary of Transportation shall define the roles and responsibilities of the William J. Hughes Technical Center in a manner that is consistent with the defined roles and responsibilities of the Civil Aeromedical Institute under subsection (a).” See [section 106(h) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106/h).

2018—[Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) substituted “Regions and centers” for “Civil aeromedical research” in section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).
