---
title: "§ 1131. Identification of major system acquisitions"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tIV/s402/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2941](/us/stat/124/2941), § 571; renumbered § 1131, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s108/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/132/4208).)"
---
# § 1131. Identification of major system acquisitions

##### § 1131. Identification of major system acquisitions

(a) In General.—

(1) Support mechanisms.— The Commandant shall develop and implement mechanisms to support the establishment of mature and stable operational requirements for all acquisitions.

(2) Mission analysis; affordability assessment.— The Commandant may not initiate a Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition project or program until the Commandant—

(A) completes a mission analysis that—

(i) identifies the specific capability gaps to be addressed by the project or program; and

(ii) develops a clear mission need to be addressed by the project or program; and

(B) prepares a preliminary affordability assessment for the project or program.

(b) Elements.—

(1) Requirements.— The mechanisms required by subsection (a) shall ensure the implementation of a formal process for the development of a mission-needs statement, concept-of-operations document, capability development plan, and resource proposal for the initial project or program funding, and shall ensure the project or program is included in the Coast Guard Capital Investment Plan.

(2) Assessment of trade-offs.— In conducting an affordability assessment under subsection (a)(2)(B), the Commandant shall develop and implement mechanisms to ensure that trade-offs among cost, schedule, and performance are considered in the establishment of preliminary operational requirements for development and production of new assets and capabilities for Level 1 and Level 2 acquisitions projects and programs.

(c) Human Resource Capital Planning.— The Commandant shall develop staffing predictions, define human capital performance initiatives, and identify preliminary training needs required to implement each Level 1 and Level 2 acquisition project and program.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tIV/s402/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2941](/us/stat/124/2941), § 571; renumbered § 1131, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s108/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/132/4208).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 571 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s571) as this section.
