---
title: "§ 6136. Transfer of funds from representation allowance of Majority and Minority Leaders of Senate to expense allowance; availability; definitions"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6136"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6136"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–71, title I, § 1](/us/pl/100/71/tI/s1), July 11, 1987, [101 Stat. 422](/us/stat/101/422).)"
---
# § 6136. Transfer of funds from representation allowance of Majority and Minority Leaders of Senate to expense allowance; availability; definitions

##### § 6136. Transfer of funds from representation allowance of Majority and Minority Leaders of Senate to expense allowance; availability; definitions

(a) The Secretary of the Senate shall, upon the written request of the Majority or Minority Leader of the Senate, transfer from any available funds in such Leader’s allotment in the Leader’s Representation Allowance (as defined in subsection (b)(1)) for any fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal year ending September 30, 1985) to such Leader’s Expense Allowance (as defined in subsection (b)(2)) to such year such amount as is specified in the request. Any funds so transferred for any fiscal year at the request of either such Leader shall be available to such Leader for such year for the same purposes as, and in like manner and subject to the same conditions as, are other funds which are available to him for such year as his expense allowance as Majority or Minority Leader.

(b)

(1) The term “Leader’s Representation Allowance” means the Representation Allowance Account for the Majority and Minority Leaders established by [section 6135 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s6135).

(2) The term “Leader’s Expense Allowance”, when used in reference to the Majority or Minority Leader of the Senate, refers to the moneys available, for any fiscal year, to such Leader as an expense allowance and the appropriation account from which such moneys are funded.

*([Pub. L. 100–71, title I, § 1](/us/pl/100/71/tI/s1), July 11, 1987, [101 Stat. 422](/us/stat/101/422).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 31a–2a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s31a–2a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1987.
