---
title: "§ 2296d. Strengthening democracy, tolerance, and the development of civil society"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2296d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2296d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 499D, as added [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(2) [title V, § 596(b)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/2/tV/s596/b), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–125.)"
---
# § 2296d. Strengthening democracy, tolerance, and the development of civil society

##### § 2296d. Strengthening democracy, tolerance, and the development of civil society

(a) Purpose of assistance The purpose of assistance under this section is to promote institutions of democratic government and to create the conditions for the growth of pluralistic societies, including religious tolerance and respect for internationally recognized human rights.

(b) Authorization for assistance To carry out the purpose of subsection (a), the President is authorized to provide the following types of assistance to the countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia:

(1) Assistance for democracy building, including programs to strengthen parliamentary institutions and practices.

(2) Assistance for the development of nongovernmental organizations.

(3) Assistance for development of independent media.

(4) Assistance for the development of the rule of law, a strong independent judiciary, and transparency in political practice and commercial transactions.

(5) International exchanges and advanced professional training programs in skill areas central to the development of civil society.

(6) Assistance to promote increased adherence to civil and political rights under [section 2151n(e) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151n/e).

(c) Activities supported Activities that may be supported by assistance under subsection (b) include activities that are designed to advance progress toward the development of democracy.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 499D, as added [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(2) [title V, § 596(b)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/2/tV/s596/b), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–125.)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
