---
title: "§ 2214. Report"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2214"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2214"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 258, as added [Pub. L. 108–484, § 6](/us/pl/108/484/s6), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3928](/us/stat/118/3928); amended [Pub. L. 115–428, § 4(h)](/us/pl/115/428/s4/h), Jan. 9, 2019, [132 Stat. 5515](/us/stat/132/5515).)"
---
# § 2214. Report

##### § 2214. Report

(a) In general Not later than June 30, 2006, and each June 30 thereafter, the Administrator of the Agency, acting through the Director of the office, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a detailed description of the implementation of this subpart for the previous fiscal year.

(b) Contents To the extent practicable, the report submitted under subsection (a) should contain the following:

(1) Information about assistance provided under [section 2211a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2211a), including—

(A) the amount of each grant or other form of assistance;

(B) the name and type of each intermediary and implementing partner organization receiving assistance;

(C) the name of each country receiving assistance; and

(D) the methodology used to ensure compliance with the targeted assistance requirements under subsection (c) of such section.

(2) The percentage of assistance provided under [section 2211a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2211a), disaggregated by income level, including for the very poor, and by gender.

(3) The estimated number of individuals that received assistance under [section 2211a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2211a), disaggregated by income level (or an appropriate proxy for income level, including for the very poor), by gender, and by type of assistance.

(4) The results of the monitoring system required under [section 2211b of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2211b).

(5) Information about any method in place to assess poverty levels under [section 2211c of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2211c).

(c) Availability to public The report required by this section shall be made available to the public on the Internet website of the Agency.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 258, as added [Pub. L. 108–484, § 6](/us/pl/108/484/s6), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3928](/us/stat/118/3928); amended [Pub. L. 115–428, § 4(h)](/us/pl/115/428/s4/h), Jan. 9, 2019, [132 Stat. 5515](/us/stat/132/5515).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–428](/us/pl/115/428) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) related to required contents of report, including number of grants provided and information on distribution of assistance.
