---
title: "§ 6946. Rural Health Liaison"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6946"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6946"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 236](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s236), as added [Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12409](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12409), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4977](/us/stat/132/4977).)"
---
# § 6946. Rural Health Liaison

##### § 6946. Rural Health Liaison

(a) Authorization The Secretary shall establish in the Department the position of Rural Health Liaison.

(b) Duties The Rural Health Liaison shall—

(1) in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, coordinate the role of the Department with respect to rural health;

(2) integrate across the Department the strategic planning and activities relating to rural health;

(3) improve communication relating to rural health within the Department and between Federal agencies;

(4) advocate on behalf of the health care and relevant infrastructure needs in rural areas;

(5) provide to stakeholders, potential grant applicants, Federal agencies, State agencies, Indian Tribes, private organizations, and academic institutions relevant data and information, including the eligibility requirements for, and availability and outcomes of, Department programs applicable to the advancement of rural health;

(6) maintain communication with public health, medical, occupational safety, and telecommunication associations, research entities, and other stakeholders to ensure that the Department is aware of current and upcoming issues relating to rural health;

(7) consult on programs, pilot projects, research, training, and other affairs relating to rural health at the Department and other Federal agencies;

(8) provide expertise on rural health to support the activities of the Secretary as Chair of the Council on Rural Community Innovation and Economic Development; and

(9) provide technical assistance and guidance with respect to activities relating to rural health to the outreach, extension, and county offices of the Department.

*([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 236](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s236), as added [Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12409](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12409), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4977](/us/stat/132/4977).)*
