---
title: "§ 2621. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2621"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2621"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–673, § 2](/us/pl/89/673/s2), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 952](/us/stat/80/952).)"
---
# § 2621. Definitions

##### § 2621. Definitions

(1) The term “person” includes every person who occupies an office or a position in the Government of the United States, its territories and possessions, the Canal Zone government, and the government of the District of Columbia, or is a member of the Armed Forces of the United States, or a member of the family and household of any such person.

(2) The term “foreign government” includes every foreign government and every official, agent, or representative thereof.

(3) The term “gift” includes any present or thing, other than a decoration, tendered by or received from a foreign government.

(4) The term “decoration” includes any order, device, medal, badge, insignia, or emblem tendered by or received from a foreign government.

*([Pub. L. 89–673, § 2](/us/pl/89/673/s2), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 952](/us/stat/80/952).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 89–673, § 1](/us/pl/89/673/s1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 952](/us/stat/80/952), which provided that [Pub. L. 89–673](/us/pl/89/673), enacting this chapter, amending [section 804 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s804), and repealing sections 114, 115, and 115a of former Title 5, Executive Departments and Government Officers and Employees, could be cited as the “Foreign Gifts and Decorations Act of 1966”, was repealed by [Pub. L. 90–83, § 10(b)](/us/pl/90/83/s10/b), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 224](/us/stat/81/224). See [section 7342 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s7342), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Repeal of Section

Section was repealed by [Pub. L. 90–83, § 10(b)](/us/pl/90/83/s10/b), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 224](/us/stat/81/224), except insofar as it applies to [section 2625 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2625).
