---
title: "§ 1194. Payments"
identifier: "USC-T11-S1194"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section1194"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–54, § 2(a)](/us/pl/116/54/s2/a), Aug. 23, 2019, [133 Stat. 1084](/us/stat/133/1084).)"
---
# § 1194. Payments

##### § 1194. Payments

(a) Retention and Distribution by Trustee.— Payments and funds received by the trustee shall be retained by the trustee until confirmation or denial of confirmation of a plan. If a plan is confirmed, the trustee shall distribute any such payment in accordance with the plan. If a plan is not confirmed, the trustee shall return any such payments to the debtor after deducting—

(1) any unpaid claim allowed under [section 503(b) of this title](/us/usc/t11/s503/b);

(2) any payment made for the purpose of providing adequate protection of an interest in property due to the holder of a secured claim; and

(3) any fee owing to the trustee.

(b) Other Plans.— If a plan is confirmed under [section 1191(b) of this title](/us/usc/t11/s1191/b), except as otherwise provided in the plan or in the order confirming the plan, the trustee shall make payments to creditors under the plan.

(c) Payments Prior to Confirmation.— Prior to confirmation of a plan, the court, after notice and a hearing, may authorize the trustee to make payments to the holder of a secured claim for the purpose of providing adequate protection of an interest in property.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–54, § 2(a)](/us/pl/116/54/s2/a), Aug. 23, 2019, [133 Stat. 1084](/us/stat/133/1084).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Aug. 23, 2019, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 116–54](/us/pl/116/54/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2019 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).
