---
title: "§ 3508. Determination of necessity for information; hearing"
identifier: "USC-T44-S3508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section3508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–13, § 2](/us/pl/104/13/s2), May 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 179](/us/stat/109/179).)"
---
# § 3508. Determination of necessity for information; hearing

##### § 3508. Determination of necessity for information; hearing

Before approving a proposed collection of information, the Director shall determine whether the collection of information by the agency is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the agency, including whether the information shall have practical utility. Before making a determination the Director may give the agency and other interested persons an opportunity to be heard or to submit statements in writing. To the extent, if any, that the Director determines that the collection of information by an agency is unnecessary for any reason, the agency may not engage in the collection of information.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–13, § 2](/us/pl/104/13/s2), May 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 179](/us/stat/109/179).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3508, added [Pub. L. 96–511, § 2(a)](/us/pl/96/511/s2/a), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2821](/us/stat/94/2821), related to determination of whether collection of information is necessary for proper performance of functions of agency prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 104–13](/us/pl/104/13).

Another prior section 3508, [Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1304](/us/stat/82/1304), related to unlawful disclosure of information, penalties, and release of information to other agencies, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 96–511](/us/pl/96/511). See [section 3510(b) of this title](/us/usc/t44/s3510/b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1995, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 104–13](/us/pl/104/13/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 3501 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s3501).
