---
title: "§ 2414. Communication between Department of Veterans Affairs and medical examiners and funeral directors"
identifier: "USC-T38-S2414"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section2414"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–260, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/112/260/tI/s103/a), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2419](/us/stat/126/2419).)"
---
# § 2414. Communication between Department of Veterans Affairs and medical examiners and funeral directors

##### § 2414. Communication between Department of Veterans Affairs and medical examiners and funeral directors

(a) Required Information.— With respect to each deceased veteran described in subsection (b) who is transported to a national cemetery for burial, the Secretary shall ensure that the local medical examiner, funeral director, county service group, or other entity responsible for the body of the deceased veteran before such transportation submits to the Secretary the following information:

(1) Whether the deceased veteran was cremated.

(2) The steps taken to ensure that the deceased veteran has no next of kin.

(b) Deceased Veteran Described.— A deceased veteran described in this subsection is a deceased veteran—

(1) with respect to whom the Secretary determines that there is no next of kin or other person claiming the body of the deceased veteran; and

(2) who does not have sufficient resources for the furnishing of a casket or urn for the burial of the deceased veteran in a national cemetery, as determined by the Secretary.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–260, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/112/260/tI/s103/a), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2419](/us/stat/126/2419).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 112–260, title I, § 103(c)](/us/pl/112/260/tI/s103/c), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2420](/us/stat/126/2420), provided that: “[Section 2414 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s2414), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 10, 2013] and shall apply with respect to deaths occurring on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.”
