---
title: "§ 1589. Conveyance of land and nondwelling structures thereon to States for National Guard purposes"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1589"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1589"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 862](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch862), title VI, § 609, as added [June 28, 1948, ch. 688, § 7](/us/act/1948-06-28/ch688/s7), as added [Apr. 20, 1950, ch. 94](/us/act/1950-04-20/ch94), title II, § 201, [64 Stat. 59](/us/stat/64/59); amended [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)"
---
# § 1589. Conveyance of land and nondwelling structures thereon to States for National Guard purposes

##### § 1589. Conveyance of land and nondwelling structures thereon to States for National Guard purposes

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is authorized to convey by quit claim deed, without consideration, to any State for National Guard purposes any land, together with any nondwelling structures thereon, held under subchapters II to VII of this chapter or any other Act in connection with war or veterans’ housing: *Provided*, That the United States shall be saved harmless from or reimbursed for such costs incidental to the conveyance as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may deem proper: *Provided further*, That the conveyance of such land shall contain the express condition that if the grantee shall fail or cease to use such land for such purposes, or shall alienate (or attempt to alienate) such land, title thereto shall, at the option of the United States, revert to the United States.

*([Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 862](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch862), title VI, § 609, as added [June 28, 1948, ch. 688, § 7](/us/act/1948-06-28/ch688/s7), as added [Apr. 20, 1950, ch. 94](/us/act/1950-04-20/ch94), title II, § 201, [64 Stat. 59](/us/stat/64/59); amended [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subchapters III and VI of this chapter, referred to in text, were comprised of sections 1531 to 1536 and 1571 to 1576, respectively, of this title and have been omitted from the Code. For further details, see note set out under [section 1522 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1522).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see note set out under [section 1581 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1581).
