---
title: "§ 4343. Regulations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4343"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4343"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 841](/us/act/1956-08-01/ch841), title III, § 303, as added [Pub. L. 100–204, title I, § 186(a)](/us/pl/100/204/tI/s186/a), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1368](/us/stat/101/1368).)"
---
# § 4343. Regulations

##### § 4343. Regulations

(a) Issuance; purpose The Secretary of State may issue regulations to carry out the purposes of this chapter. The primary purpose of such regulations and related policies, rules, and procedures shall be to assure that employees and members of their families do not profit personally from sales or other transactions with persons who are not themselves entitled to exemption from import restrictions, duties, or taxes.

(b) Contractors Such regulations shall require that, to the extent contractors enjoy importation or tax privileges in a foreign country because of their contractual relationship to the United States Government, after the effective date of this chapter contracting agencies shall include provisions in their contracts to carry out the purpose of this chapter.

(c) Chief of mission In order to ensure that due account is taken of local conditions, including applicable laws, markets, exchange rate factors, and accommodation exchange facilities, such regulations may authorize the chief of mission to each foreign country to establish more detailed policies, rules, or procedures for the application of this chapter within that country to employees under the chief of mission’s jurisdiction.

*([Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 841](/us/act/1956-08-01/ch841), title III, § 303, as added [Pub. L. 100–204, title I, § 186(a)](/us/pl/100/204/tI/s186/a), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1368](/us/stat/101/1368).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For the effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), as being 180 days after Dec. 22, 1987, see [section 186(b) of Pub. L. 100–204](/us/pl/100/204/s186/b) set out as an Effective Date note under [section 4341 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4341).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 22, 1987, see [section 186(b) of Pub. L. 100–204](/us/pl/100/204/s186/b), set out as a note under [section 4741 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4741).
