---
title: "§ 2465. Enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2465"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2465"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–594, § 5](/us/pl/101/594/s5), formerly § 6, Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2977](/us/stat/104/2977); renumbered § 5, [Pub. L. 104–227, title II, § 202(c)](/us/pl/104/227/tII/s202/c), Oct. 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 3044](/us/stat/110/3044).)"
---
# § 2465. Enforcement

##### § 2465. Enforcement

(a) In general A violation of this chapter or any regulation promulgated under this chapter is deemed to be a violation of the Antarctic Marine Living Resources Convention Act ([16 U.S.C. 2431–244](/us/usc/t16/s2431–244)4) and shall be enforced under that Act by the Under Secretary or another Federal official to whom the Under Secretary has delegated this responsibility.

(b) Penalty If the Under Secretary determines that a person has violated [section 2463 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2463)—

(1) that person shall be ineligible to locate a mining claim under the mining laws of the United States; and

(2) the Secretary of the Interior shall refuse to issue a patent under the mining laws of the United States, or a lease under the laws of the United States related to mineral or geothermal leasing, to any such person who attempts to perfect such patent or lease application after the Under Secretary has made such determination.

*([Pub. L. 101–594, § 5](/us/pl/101/594/s5), formerly § 6, Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2977](/us/stat/104/2977); renumbered § 5, [Pub. L. 104–227, title II, § 202(c)](/us/pl/104/227/tII/s202/c), Oct. 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 3044](/us/stat/110/3044).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Antarctic Marine Living Resources Convention Act, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means the Antarctic Marine Living Resources Convention Act of 1984, title III of [Pub. L. 98–623](/us/pl/98/623), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3398](/us/stat/98/3398), which is classified generally to chapter 44A (§ 2431 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2431 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2431) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 5 of Pub. L. 101–594](/us/pl/101/594/s5) was classified to [section 2464 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2464) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 104–227](/us/pl/104/227).
