---
title: "§ 1726. General provisions"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1726"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1726"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title III, § 60307](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tIII/s60307), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/135/1230).)"
---
# § 1726. General provisions

##### § 1726. General provisions

(a) Nondiscrimination

(1) In general No individual in the United States may, on the basis of actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, or disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity that is funded in whole or in part with funds made available to carry out this subchapter.

(2) Enforcement The Assistant Secretary shall effectuate paragraph (1) with respect to any program or activity described in that paragraph by issuing regulations and taking actions consistent with [section 2000d–1 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–1).

(3) Judicial review Judicial review of an action taken by the Assistant Secretary under paragraph (2) shall be available to the extent provided in [section 2000d–2 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–2).

(b) Technological neutrality The Assistant Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, carry out this subchapter in a technologically neutral manner.

(c) Audit and oversight Beginning in the first fiscal year in which amounts are made available to carry out an activity authorized under this subchapter, and in each of the 4 fiscal years thereafter, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Office of Inspector General for the Department of Commerce $1,000,000 for audits and oversight of funds made available to carry out this subchapter, which shall remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title III, § 60307](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tIII/s60307), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/135/1230).)*
