---
title: "§ 47144. Use of funds for repairs for runway safety repairs"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47144"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47144"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–31, div. K, title I, § 119F(a)](/us/pl/115/31/dK/tI/s119F/a), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 734](/us/stat/131/734); amended [Pub. L. 118–63, title XI, § 1101(w)](/us/pl/118/63/tXI/s1101/w), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/138/1414).)"
---
# § 47144. Use of funds for repairs for runway safety repairs

##### § 47144. Use of funds for repairs for runway safety repairs

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation may make project grants under this subchapter to an airport described in subsection (b) from funds under section 47114 apportioned to that airport or funds available for discretionary grants to that airport under section 47115 to conduct airport development to repair the runway safety area of the airport damaged as a result of a natural disaster in order to maintain compliance with the regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration relating to runway safety areas, without regard to whether construction of the runway safety area damaged was carried out using amounts the airport received under this subchapter.

(b) Airports Described.— An airport is described in this subsection if—

(1) the airport is a public-use airport;

(2) the airport is listed in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems of the Federal Aviation Administration;

(3) the runway safety area of the airport was damaged as a result of a natural disaster;

(4) the airport was denied funding under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 5121](/us/usc/t42/s5121) et seq.) with respect to the disaster;

(5) the operator of the airport has exhausted all legal remedies, including legal action against any parties (or insurers thereof) whose action or inaction may have contributed to the need for the repair of the runway safety area;

(6) there is still a demonstrated need for the runway safety area to accommodate current or imminent aeronautical demand; and

(7) the cost of repairing or replacing the runway safety area is reasonable in relation to the anticipated operational benefit of repairing the runway safety area, as determined by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–31, div. K, title I, § 119F(a)](/us/pl/115/31/dK/tI/s119F/a), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 734](/us/stat/131/734); amended [Pub. L. 118–63, title XI, § 1101(w)](/us/pl/118/63/tXI/s1101/w), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/138/1414).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(4), is [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143), which is classified principally to chapter 68 (§ 5121 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Section 119F(a) of Pub. L. 115–31](/us/pl/115/31/s119F/a), which directed amendment of “subchapter I of chapter 471” by adding at the end this section, was executed by adding this section at the end of subchapter I of chapter 471 of this title to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63) substituted “([42 U.S.C. 5121](/us/usc/t42/s5121) et seq.)” for “([42 U.S.C. 4121](/us/usc/t42/s4121) et seq.)”.
