---
title: "§ 430f–10. Park management and administration"
identifier: "USC-T16-S430f–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section430f–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–271, § 6](/us/pl/106/271/s6), Sept. 22, 2000, [114 Stat. 794](/us/stat/114/794).)"
---
# § 430f–10. Park management and administration

##### § 430f–10. Park management and administration

(a) In general The Secretary shall administer the Unit in accordance with sections 430f–6 to 430f–12 of this title and the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including—

(1) the Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 ([16 U.S.C. 1](/us/usc/t16/s1) et seq.); 11 See References in Text note below. and

(2) the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes”, approved August 21, 1935 ([16 U.S.C. 461](/us/usc/t16/s461) et seq.).^1

(b) Duties In accordance with [section 430f–5 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s430f–5), the Secretary shall—

(1) commemorate and interpret, for the benefit of visitors and the general public, the Siege and Battle of Corinth and other Civil War actions in the area in and around the city of Corinth within the larger context of the Civil War and American history, including the significance of the Civil War Siege and Battle of Corinth in 1862 in relation to other operations in the western theater of the Civil War; and

(2) identify and preserve surviving features from the Civil War era in the area in and around the city of Corinth, including both military and civilian themes that include—

(A) the role of railroads in the Civil War;

(B) the story of the Corinth contraband camp; and

(C) the development of field fortifications as a tactic of war.

(c) Cooperative agreements

(1) In general To carry out sections 430f–6 to 430f–12 of this title, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with entities in the public and private sectors, including—

(A) colleges and universities;

(B) historical societies;

(C) State and local agencies; and

(D) nonprofit organizations.

(2) Technical assistance To develop cooperative land use strategies and conduct activities that facilitate the conservation of the historic, cultural, natural, and scenic resources of the Unit, the Secretary may provide technical assistance, to the extent that a recipient of technical assistance is engaged in the protection, interpretation, or commemoration of historically significant Civil War resources in the area in and around the city of Corinth, to—

(A) the State of Mississippi (including a political subdivision of the State);

(B) the State of Tennessee (including a political subdivision of the State);

(C) a governmental entity;

(D) a nonprofit organization; and

(E) a private property owner.

(d) Resources outside the Unit Nothing in subsection (c)(2) authorizes the Secretary to own or manage any resource outside the Unit.

*([Pub. L. 106–271, § 6](/us/pl/106/271/s6), Sept. 22, 2000, [114 Stat. 794](/us/stat/114/794).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 ([16 U.S.C. 1](/us/usc/t16/s1) et seq.), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is [act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408](/us/act/1916-08-25/ch408), [39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535), known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101), National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as [section 1865(a) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1865/a), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).

The Act entitled “An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes”, approved August 21, 1935 ([16 U.S.C. 461](/us/usc/t16/s461) et seq.), referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [act Aug. 21, 1935, ch. 593](/us/act/1935-08-21/ch593), [49 Stat. 666](/us/stat/49/666), known as the Historic Sites Act of 1935 and also as the Historic Sites, Buildings, and Antiquities Act, which enacted sections 461 to 467 of this title. The Act was repealed and restated as [section 1866(a) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1866/a), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and sections 102303 and 102304 and chapter 3201 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).
