---
title: "§ 5505. Gross receipts from conveyed lands"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–114, § 5](/us/pl/94/114/s5), Oct. 17, 1975, [89 Stat. 579](/us/stat/89/579).)"
---
# § 5505. Gross receipts from conveyed lands

##### § 5505. Gross receipts from conveyed lands

(a) Deposit to credit of tribe; nonapplicability Any and all gross receipts derived from, or which relate to, the property conveyed by this chapter, the Act of July 20, 1956 ([70 Stat. 581](/us/stat/70/581)), the Act of August 2, 1956 ([70 Stat. 941](/us/stat/70/941)), the Act of October 9, 1972 ([86 Stat. 795](/us/stat/86/795)), and [section 1 of the Act of October 13, 1972](/us/act/1972-10-13/s1) ([86 Stat. 806](/us/stat/86/806)) which were received by the United States subsequent to its acquisition by the United States under the statutes cited in [section 5501 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5501) and prior to such conveyance, from whatever source and for whatever purpose, including but not limited to the receipts in the special fund of the Treasury as required by section 6 of the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands of August 7, 1947 ([61 Stat. 913](/us/stat/61/913), 915) [[30 U.S.C. 355](/us/usc/t30/s355)], shall as of October 17, 1975, be deposited to the credit of the Indian tribe receiving such land and may be expended by the tribe for such beneficial programs as the tribal governing body may determine: *Provided*, That this section shall not apply to any such receipts received prior to October 17, 1975, from the leasing of public domain minerals which were subject to the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 ([41 Stat. 437](/us/stat/41/437)) [[30 U.S.C. 181](/us/usc/t30/s181) et seq.], as amended and supplemented.

(b) Administration of gross receipts All gross receipts (including but not limited to bonuses, rents, and royalties) hereafter derived by the United States from any contract, permit or lease referred to in [section 5504(a) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5504/a), or otherwise, shall be administered in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to receipts from property held in trust by the United States for Indian tribes.

*([Pub. L. 94–114, § 5](/us/pl/94/114/s5), Oct. 17, 1975, [89 Stat. 579](/us/stat/89/579).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of July 20, 1956, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act July 20, 1956, ch. 645](/us/act/1956-07-20/ch645), [70 Stat. 581](/us/stat/70/581), which was set out as a note under former [section 465 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s465) and was omitted from the Code as being of special and not general application.

Act of August 2, 1956, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 886](/us/act/1956-08-02/ch886), [70 Stat. 941](/us/stat/70/941), which was not classified to the Code.

Act of October 9, 1972, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 92–480](/us/pl/92/480), Oct. 9, 1972, [86 Stat. 795](/us/stat/86/795), which was not classified to the Code.

[Section 1 of the Act of October 13, 1972](/us/act/1972-10-13/s1), referred to in subsec. (a), is [section 1 of Pub. L. 92–488](/us/pl/92/488/s1), Oct. 13, 1972, [86 Stat. 806](/us/stat/86/806), which was not classified to the Code.

The Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Feb. 25, 1920, ch. 85](/us/act/1920-02-25/ch85), [41 Stat. 437](/us/stat/41/437), known as the Mineral Leasing Act, which is classified generally to chapter 3A (§ 181 et seq.) of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 181 of Title 30](/us/usc/t30/s181) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 459d of this title](/us/usc/t25/s459d) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
