---
title: "§ 2213. Annual conference"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2213"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2213"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–498, § 14](/us/pl/93/498/s14), Oct. 29, 1974, [88 Stat. 1544](/us/stat/88/1544).)"
---
# § 2213. Annual conference

##### § 2213. Annual conference

The Administrator is authorized to organize, or to participate in organizing, an annual conference on fire prevention and control. He may pay, in whole or in part, the cost of such conference and the expenses of some or all of the participants. All of the Nation’s fire services shall be eligible to send representatives to each such conference to discuss, exchange ideas on, and participate in educational programs on new techniques in fire prevention and control. Such conferences shall be open to the public.

*([Pub. L. 93–498, § 14](/us/pl/93/498/s14), Oct. 29, 1974, [88 Stat. 1544](/us/stat/88/1544).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see [section 315(a)(1) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s315/a/1), Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of National Fire Prevention and Control Administration [now United States Fire Administration] and National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control generally transferred to Federal Emergency Management Agency. For further details see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 2202 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2202).
