---
title: "§ 6539. Abolition of statutory positions in Office of Secretary of Senate; Secretary’s authority to establish and fix compensation for positions"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6539"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6539"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–51, § 114](/us/pl/97/51/s114), Oct. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 963](/us/stat/95/963).)"
---
# § 6539. Abolition of statutory positions in Office of Secretary of Senate; Secretary’s authority to establish and fix compensation for positions

##### § 6539. Abolition of statutory positions in Office of Secretary of Senate; Secretary’s authority to establish and fix compensation for positions

Effective October 1, 1981, all statutory positions in the Office of the Secretary (other than the positions of the Secretary of the Senate, Assistant Secretary of the Senate, Parliamentarian, Financial Clerk, and Director of the Office of Classified National Security Information) are abolished, and in lieu of the positions hereby abolished the Secretary of the Senate is authorized to establish such number of positions as he deems appropriate and appoint and fix the compensation of employees to fill the positions so established; except that the annual rate of compensation payable to any employee appointed to fill any position established by the Secretary of the Senate shall not, for any period of time, be in excess of $1,000 less than the annual rate of compensation of the Secretary of the Senate for that period of time; and except that nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any position authorized by statute, if the compensation for such position is to be paid from the contingent fund of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 97–51, § 114](/us/pl/97/51/s114), Oct. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 963](/us/stat/95/963).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61a–11 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61a–11) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Increases in Compensation

Increases in compensation for Senate officers and employees under authority of Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970 ([Pub. L. 91–656](/us/pl/91/656)), see Salary Directives of President pro tempore of the Senate, set out as notes under [section 4571 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4571).
