---
title: "§ 101918. Transfer or conveyance of concession contracts or leasehold surrender interests"
identifier: "USC-T54-S101918"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section101918"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3147](/us/stat/128/3147).)"
---
# § 101918. Transfer or conveyance of concession contracts or leasehold surrender interests

##### § 101918. Transfer or conveyance of concession contracts or leasehold surrender interests

(a) Approval of Secretary.— No concession contract or leasehold surrender interest may be transferred, assigned, sold, or otherwise conveyed or pledged by a concessioner without prior written notification to, and approval by, the Secretary.

(b) Conditions.— The Secretary shall approve a transfer or conveyance described in subsection (a) unless the Secretary finds that—

(1) the individual, corporation, or other entity seeking to acquire a concession contract is not qualified or able to satisfy the terms and conditions of the concession contract;

(2) the transfer or conveyance would have an adverse impact on—

(A) the protection, conservation, or preservation of the resources of the System unit; or

(B) the provision of necessary and appropriate facilities and services to visitors at reasonable rates and charges; and

(3) the terms of the transfer or conveyance are likely, directly or indirectly, to—

(A) reduce the concessioner’s opportunity for a reasonable profit over the remaining term of the concession contract;

(B) adversely affect the quality of facilities and services provided by the concessioner; or

(C) result in a need for increased rates and charges to the public to maintain the quality of the facilities and services.

(c) Modification or Renegotiation of Terms.— The terms and conditions of any concession contract under this section shall not be subject to modification or open to renegotiation by the Secretary because of a transfer or conveyance described in subsection (a) unless the transfer or conveyance would have an adverse impact as described in subsection (b)(2).

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3147](/us/stat/128/3147).)*

In subsection (b)(1), the word “other” is added for consistency in the subchapter. See section 101926 of the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 101918 | 16 U.S.C. 5957. | Pub. L. 105–391, title IV, § 408, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3512. |
