---
title: "§ 9545. Report on Russian Federation influence on elections in Europe and Eurasia"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9545"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9545"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–44, title II, § 256](/us/pl/115/44/tII/s256), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 930](/us/stat/131/930).)"
---
# § 9545. Report on Russian Federation influence on elections in Europe and Eurasia

##### § 9545. Report on Russian Federation influence on elections in Europe and Eurasia

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after August 2, 2017, and annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership a report on funds provided by, or funds the use of which was directed by, the Government of the Russian Federation or any Russian person with the intention of influencing the outcome of any election or campaign in any country in Europe or Eurasia during the preceding year, including through direct support to any political party, candidate, lobbying campaign, nongovernmental organization, or civic organization.

(b) Form of report Each report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

(c) Definitions In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees and leadership The term “appropriate congressional committees and leadership” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the majority and minority leaders of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on Appropriations, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Speaker, the majority leader, and the minority leader of the House of Representatives.

(2) Russian person The term “Russian person” means—

(A) an individual who is a citizen or national of the Russian Federation; or

(B) an entity organized under the laws of the Russian Federation or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of the Russian Federation.

*([Pub. L. 115–44, title II, § 256](/us/pl/115/44/tII/s256), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 930](/us/stat/131/930).)*
