---
title: "§ 12632. Extension of authorizations of appropriations for fiscal years for which full amount authorized is not appropriated"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12632"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12632"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXI, § 310003](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXI/s310003), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2105](/us/stat/108/2105).)"
---
# § 12632. Extension of authorizations of appropriations for fiscal years for which full amount authorized is not appropriated

##### § 12632. Extension of authorizations of appropriations for fiscal years for which full amount authorized is not appropriated

If, in making an appropriation under any provision of this Act or amendment made by this Act that authorizes the making of an appropriation for a certain purpose for a certain fiscal year in a certain amount, the Congress makes an appropriation for that purpose for that fiscal year in a lesser amount, that provision or amendment shall be considered to authorize the making of appropriations for that purpose for later fiscal years in an amount equal to the difference between the amount authorized to be appropriated and the amount that has been appropriated.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXI, § 310003](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXI/s310003), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2105](/us/stat/108/2105).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1796](/us/stat/108/1796), known as the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14213 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14213), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
