---
title: "§ 12108. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20108](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20108), as added [Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101[(a)]](/us/pl/104/134/tI/s101) [title I, § 114(a)], Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/110/1321), 1321–19; renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a)](/us/pl/104/140/s1/a), May 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1327](/us/stat/110/1327); amended [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s104/b), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 669](/us/stat/122/669).)"
---
# § 12108. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 12108. Authorization of appropriations

(a) In general

(1) Authorizations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part—

(A) $997,500,000 for fiscal year 1996;

(B) $1,330,000,000 for fiscal year 1997;

(C) $2,527,000,000 for fiscal year 1998;

(D) $2,660,000,000 for fiscal year 1999; and

(E) $2,753,100,000 for fiscal year 2000.

(2) Distribution

(A) In general Of the amounts remaining after the allocation of funds for the purposes set forth under sections 12110, 12111, and 12109 of this title, the Attorney General shall, from amounts authorized to be appropriated under paragraph (1) for each fiscal year, distribute 50 percent for incarceration grants under [section 12103 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12103), and 50 percent for incentive grants under [section 12104 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12104).

(B) Distribution of minimum amounts The Attorney General shall distribute minimum amounts allocated for [section 12103(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12103/a) to an eligible State not later than 30 days after receiving an application that demonstrates that such State qualifies for a Violent Offender Incarceration grant under [section 12103 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12103) or a Truth-in-Sentencing Incentive grant under [section 12104 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12104).

(b) Limitations on funds

(1) Uses of funds Except as provided in section 11 So in original. Probably should be “sections”. 12110 and 12111 of this title, funds made available pursuant to this section shall be used only to carry out the purposes described in [section 12102(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12102/a).

(2) Nonsupplanting requirement Funds made available pursuant to this section shall not be used to supplant State funds, but shall be used to increase the amount of funds that would, in the absence of Federal funds, be made available from State sources.

(3) Administrative costs Not more than 3 percent of the funds that remain available after carrying out sections 12109, 12110, and 12111 of this title shall be available to the Attorney General for purposes of—

(A) administration;

(B) research and evaluation, including assessment of the effect on public safety and other effects of the expansion of correctional capacity and sentencing reforms implemented pursuant to this part;

(C) technical assistance relating to the use of grant funds, and development and implementation of sentencing reforms implemented pursuant to this part; and

(D) data collection and improvement of information systems relating to the confinement of violent offenders and other sentencing and correctional matters.

(4) Carryover of appropriations Funds appropriated pursuant to this section during any fiscal year shall remain available until expended. Funds obligated, but subsequently unspent and deobligated, may remain available, to the extent as may 22 So in original. Probably should be followed by “be”. provided in appropriations Acts, for the purpose described in [section 12102(a)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12102/a/4) for any subsequent fiscal year. The further obligation of such funds by an official for such purpose shall not be delayed, directly or indirectly, in any manner by any officer or employee in the executive branch.

(5) Matching funds The Federal share of a grant received under this part may not exceed 90 percent of the costs of a proposal as described in an application approved under this part.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20108](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20108), as added [Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101[(a)]](/us/pl/104/134/tI/s101) [title I, § 114(a)], Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/110/1321), 1321–19; renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a)](/us/pl/104/140/s1/a), May 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1327](/us/stat/110/1327); amended [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s104/b), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 669](/us/stat/122/669).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13708 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13708), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 20108 of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s20108), title II, Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1818](/us/stat/108/1818), defined terms prior to the general amendment of subtitle A of title II of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) by [Pub. L. 104–134](/us/pl/104/134).

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) inserted at end “Funds obligated, but subsequently unspent and deobligated, may remain available, to the extent as may provided in appropriations Acts, for the purpose described in [section 13702(a)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s13702/a/4) for any subsequent fiscal year. The further obligation of such funds by an official for such purpose shall not be delayed, directly or indirectly, in any manner by any officer or employee in the executive branch.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction of 2008 Amendment

For construction of amendments by [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) and requirements for grants made under such amendments, see [section 60504 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s60504).
