---
title: "§ 685. Hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing game in designated breeding areas unlawful"
identifier: "USC-T16-S685"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section685"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Jan. 24, 1905, ch. 137, § 2](/us/act/1905-01-24/ch137/s2), [33 Stat. 614](/us/stat/33/614); [June 29, 1906, ch. 3593, § 2](/us/act/1906-06-29/ch3593/s2), [34 Stat. 607](/us/stat/34/607); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433); [June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), §§ 8, 9, [62 Stat. 860](/us/stat/62/860).)"
---
# § 685. Hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing game in designated breeding areas unlawful

##### § 685. Hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing game in designated breeding areas unlawful

When such areas have been designated in the Wichita National Forest as provided for in [section 684 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s684), hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing of game animals and birds upon the lands of the United States within the limits of said areas shall be unlawful, except under such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time, by the Secretary of the Interior.

When such areas have been designated in the Grand Canyon National Forest as provided in [section 684 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s684), hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing of game animals upon the lands of the United States within the limits of said areas shall be unlawful, except under such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time by the Secretary of Agriculture.

*([Jan. 24, 1905, ch. 137, § 2](/us/act/1905-01-24/ch137/s2), [33 Stat. 614](/us/stat/33/614); [June 29, 1906, ch. 3593, § 2](/us/act/1906-06-29/ch3593/s2), [34 Stat. 607](/us/stat/34/607); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433); [June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), §§ 8, 9, [62 Stat. 860](/us/stat/62/860).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Words “in the Wichita National Forest and in the Grand Canyon National Forest” inserted, and “Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of Agriculture, respectively” substituted for “Secretary of Agriculture” because of Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, which transferred Bureau of Biological Survey from Department of Agriculture to Department of the Interior. The successor to Wichita National Forest, which was then administered by that Bureau, was affected by the transfer. However, the successor to Grand Canyon National Forest was administered by Forest Service and was consequently not affected.

For successors to Wichita National Forest and Grand Canyon National Forest, see Presidential Designation note set out under [section 684 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s684).

#### Amendments

1948—Act June 25, 1948, struck out penal provisions. See [section 41 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s41), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1948 Amendment

Section 20 of act June 25, 1948, provided that the amendment made by that act is effective Sept. 1, 1948.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, transferred functions of Secretary of Agriculture relating to conservation of wildlife, game, and migratory birds to Secretary of the Interior.
