---
title: "§ 300mm–21. Identification of WTC responders and provision of WTC-related monitoring services"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300mm–21"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300mm–21"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3311, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3635](/us/stat/124/3635); amended [Pub. L. 114–113, div. O, title III, § 302(d)](/us/pl/114/113/dO/tIII/s302/d), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2999](/us/stat/129/2999); [Pub. L. 116–59, div. B, title VI, § 1602(a)](/us/pl/116/59/dB/tVI/s1602/a), Sept. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/133/1107); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title VII, "
---
# § 300mm–21. Identification of WTC responders and provision of WTC-related monitoring services

##### § 300mm–21. Identification of WTC responders and provision of WTC-related monitoring services

(a) WTC responder defined

(1) In general For purposes of this subchapter, the term “WTC responder” means any of the following individuals, subject to paragraph (4):

(A) Currently identified responder An individual who has been identified as eligible for monitoring under the arrangements as in effect on January 2, 2011, between the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health and—

(i) the consortium coordinated by Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City that coordinates the monitoring and treatment for enrolled WTC responders other than with respect to those covered under the arrangement with the Fire Department of New York City; or

(ii) the Fire Department of New York City.

(B) Responder who meets current eligibility criteria An individual who meets the current eligibility criteria described in paragraph (2).

(C) Responder who meets modified eligibility criteria An individual who—

The WTC Program Administrator shall not modify such eligibility criteria on or after the date that the number of enrollments of WTC responders has reached 80 percent of the limit described in paragraph (4) or on or after the date that the number of certifications for certified-eligible WTC survivors under [section 300mm–31(a)(2)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–31/a/2/B) has reached 80 percent of the limit described in [section 300mm–31(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–31/a/3).

(i) performed rescue, recovery, demolition, debris cleanup, or other related services in the New York City disaster area in response to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, regardless of whether such services were performed by a State or Federal employee or member of the National Guard or otherwise; and

(ii) meets such eligibility criteria relating to exposure to airborne toxins, other hazards, or adverse conditions resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks as the WTC Program Administrator, after consultation with the WTC Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee, determines appropriate.

(2) Current eligibility criteria The eligibility criteria described in this paragraph for an individual is that the individual is described in any of the following categories:

(A) Firefighters and related personnel The individual—

(i) was a member of the Fire Department of New York City (whether fire or emergency personnel, active or retired) who participated at least one day in the rescue and recovery effort at any of the former World Trade Center sites (including Ground Zero, Staten Island Landfill, and the New York City Chief Medical Examiner’s Office) for any time during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on July 31, 2002; or

(ii)

(I) is a surviving immediate family member of an individual who was a member of the Fire Department of New York City (whether fire or emergency personnel, active or retired) and was killed at the World Trade site on September 11, 2001; and

(II) received any treatment for a WTC-related health condition described in [section 300mm–22(a)(1)(A)(ii) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–22/a/1/A/ii) (relating to mental health conditions) on or before September 1, 2008.

(B) Law enforcement officers and WTC rescue, recovery, and cleanup workers The individual—

(i) worked or volunteered onsite in rescue, recovery, debris cleanup, or related support services in lower Manhattan (south of Canal St.), the Staten Island Landfill, or the barge loading piers, for at least 4 hours during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on September 14, 2001, for at least 24 hours during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on September 30, 2001, or for at least 80 hours during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on July 31, 2002;

(ii)

(I) was a member of the Police Department of New York City (whether active or retired) or a member of the Port Authority Police of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (whether active or retired) who participated onsite in rescue, recovery, debris cleanup, or related services in lower Manhattan (south of Canal St.), including Ground Zero, the Staten Island Landfill, or the barge loading piers, for at least 4 hours during the period beginning September 11, 2001, and ending on September 14, 2001;

(II) participated onsite in rescue, recovery, debris cleanup, or related services at Ground Zero, the Staten Island Landfill, or the barge loading piers, for at least one day during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on July 31, 2002;

(III) participated onsite in rescue, recovery, debris cleanup, or related services in lower Manhattan (south of Canal St.) for at least 24 hours during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on September 30, 2001; or

(IV) participated onsite in rescue, recovery, debris cleanup, or related services in lower Manhattan (south of Canal St.) for at least 80 hours during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on July 31, 2002;

(iii) was an employee of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner of New York City involved in the examination and handling of human remains from the World Trade Center attacks, or other morgue worker who performed similar post-September 11 functions for such Office staff, during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on July 31, 2002;

(iv) was a worker in the Port Authority Trans-Hudson Corporation Tunnel for at least 24 hours during the period beginning on February 1, 2002, and ending on July 1, 2002; or

(v) was a vehicle-maintenance worker who was exposed to debris from the former World Trade Center while retrieving, driving, cleaning, repairing, and maintaining vehicles contaminated by airborne toxins from the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks during a duration and period described in subparagraph (A).

(C) Responders to the September 11 attacks at the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pennsylvania The individual—

(i)

(I) was a member of a fire or police department (whether fire or emergency personnel, active or retired), worked for a recovery or cleanup contractor, or was a volunteer; and performed rescue, recovery, demolition, debris cleanup, or other related services at the Pentagon site of the terrorist-related aircraft crash of September 11, 2001, during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on the date on which the cleanup of the site was concluded, as determined by the WTC Program Administrator;

(II) was a member of a fire or police department (whether fire or emergency personnel, active or retired), worked for a recovery or cleanup contractor, or was a volunteer; and performed rescue, recovery, demolition, debris cleanup, or other related services at the Shanksville, Pennsylvania, site of the terrorist-related aircraft crash of September 11, 2001, during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on the date on which the cleanup of the site was concluded, as determined by the WTC Program Administrator;

(III) was an employee of the Department of Defense or any other Federal agency, worked during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on September 18, 2001, for a contractor of the Department of Defense or any other Federal agency, or was a member of a regular or reserve component of the uniformed services; and performed rescue, recovery, demolition, debris cleanup, or other related services at the Pentagon site of the terrorist-related aircraft crash of September 11, 2001, during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on the date on which the cleanup of the site was concluded, as determined by the WTC Program Administrator; or

(IV) was an employee of the Department of Defense or any other Federal agency, worked during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on September 18, 2001, for a contractor of the Department of Defense or any other Federal agency, or was a member of a regular or reserve component of the uniformed services; and performed rescue, recovery, demolition, debris cleanup, or other related services at the Shanksville, Pennsylvania, site of the terrorist-related aircraft crash of September 11, 2001, during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on the date on which the cleanup of the site was concluded, as determined by the WTC Program Administrator; and

(ii) is determined by the WTC Program Administrator to be at an increased risk of developing a WTC-related health condition as a result of exposure to airborne toxins, other hazards, or adverse conditions resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, and meets such eligibility criteria related to such exposures, as the WTC Program Administrator determines are appropriate, after consultation with the WTC Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee.

(3) Enrollment process

(A) In general The WTC Program Administrator shall establish a process for enrolling WTC responders in the WTC Program. Under such process—

(i) WTC responders described in paragraph (1)(A) shall be deemed to be enrolled in such Program;

(ii) subject to clause (iii), the Administrator shall enroll in such program individuals who are determined to be WTC responders;

(iii) the Administrator shall deny such enrollment to an individual if the Administrator determines that the numerical limitation in paragraph (4) on enrollment of WTC responders has been met;

(iv) there shall be no fee charged to the applicant for making an application for such enrollment;

(v) the Administrator shall make a determination on such an application not later than 60 days after the date of filing the application; and

(vi) an individual who is denied enrollment in such Program shall have an opportunity to appeal such determination in a manner established under such process.

(B) Timing

(i) Currently identified responders In accordance with subparagraph (A)(i), the WTC Program Administrator shall enroll an individual described in paragraph (1)(A) in the WTC Program not later than July 1, 2011.

(ii) Other responders In accordance with subparagraph (A)(ii) and consistent with paragraph (4), the WTC Program Administrator shall enroll any other individual who is determined to be a WTC responder in the WTC Program at the time of such determination.

(4) Numerical limitation on eligible WTC responders

(A) Limit

(i) In general The total number of individuals not described in paragraph (1)(A) or (2)(A)(ii) or subclause (III) or (IV) of paragraph (2)(C)(i) who may be enrolled under paragraph (3)(A)(ii) shall not exceed 75,000 at any time, of which no more than 2,500 may be individuals enrolled based on modified eligibility criteria established under paragraph (1)(C).

(ii) Certain responders to the September 11 attacks at the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pennsylvania The total number of individuals who may be enrolled under paragraph (3)(A)(ii) based on eligibility criteria described in subclause (III) or (IV) of paragraph (2)(C)(i) shall not exceed 500 at any time.

(B) Process In implementing subparagraph (A), the WTC Program Administrator shall—

(i) limit the number of enrollments made under paragraph (3)—

(I) in accordance with such subparagraph; and

(II) to such number, as determined by the Administrator based on the best available information and subject to amounts available under this subchapter, that will ensure sufficient funds will be available to provide treatment and monitoring benefits under this subchapter, with respect to all individuals who are enrolled; and

(ii) provide priority (subject to paragraph (3)(A)(i)) in such enrollments in the order in which individuals apply for enrollment under paragraph (3).

(5) Disqualification of individuals on terrorist watch list No individual who is on the terrorist watch list maintained by the Department of Homeland Security shall qualify as an eligible WTC responder. Before enrolling any individual as a WTC responder in the WTC Program under paragraph (3), the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall determine whether the individual is on such list.

(b) Monitoring benefits

(1) In general In the case of an enrolled WTC responder (other than one described in subsection (a)(2)(A)(ii)), the WTC Program shall provide for monitoring benefits that include monitoring consistent with protocols approved by the WTC Program Administrator and including clinical examinations and long-term health monitoring and analysis. In the case of an enrolled WTC responder who is an active member of the Fire Department of New York City, the responder shall receive such benefits as part of the individual’s periodic company medical exams.

(2) Provision of monitoring benefits The monitoring benefits under paragraph (1) shall be provided through the Clinical Center of Excellence for the type of individual involved or, in the case of an individual residing outside the New York metropolitan area, under an arrangement under [section 300mm–23 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–23).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3311, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3635](/us/stat/124/3635); amended [Pub. L. 114–113, div. O, title III, § 302(d)](/us/pl/114/113/dO/tIII/s302/d), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2999](/us/stat/129/2999); [Pub. L. 116–59, div. B, title VI, § 1602(a)](/us/pl/116/59/dB/tVI/s1602/a), Sept. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/133/1107); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title VII, § 7701(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tVII/s7701/b/1), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5965](/us/stat/136/5965); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVIII, § 1851(a)(2)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVIII/s1851/a/2), (c)(1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 706](/us/stat/137/706), 708.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (a)(2)(C)(i)(III), (IV). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1851(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/118/31/s1851/a/2/A), added subcls. (III) and (IV).

Subsec. (a)(4)(A). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1851(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/118/31/s1851/a/2/B), substituted “Limit” for “In general” in subpar. heading, designated existing provisions as cl. (i) and inserted cl. heading, inserted “or subclause (III) or (IV) of paragraph (2)(C)(i)” after “or (2)(A)(ii)”, and added cl. (ii).

Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(i)(II). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1851(c)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/s1851/c/1), substituted “this subchapter” for “sections 300mm–61 and 300mm–62 of this title”.

2022—Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(i)(II). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) substituted “sections 300mm–61 and 300mm–62 of this title” for “[section 300mm–61 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–61)”.

2019—Subsec. (a)(4)(A). [Pub. L. 116–59](/us/pl/116/59) substituted “75,000” for “25,000”.

2015—Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(i)(II). [Pub. L. 114–113](/us/pl/114/113) struck out “through the end of fiscal year 2020” after “who are enrolled”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 116–59, div. B, title VI, § 1602(c)](/us/pl/116/59/dB/tVI/s1602/c), Sept. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/133/1107), provided that: “Nothing in this section [amending this section and [section 300mm–31 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–31)], or the amendments made by this section, shall alter the annual limitations on amounts appropriated to the World Trade Center Health Program Fund under section 3351(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act ([42 U.S.C. 300mm–61(a)(2)](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–61/a/2)).”
