---
title: "§ 3352. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3352"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3352"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVI, § 6601](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVI/s6601), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2209](/us/stat/133/2209).)"
---
# § 3352. Definitions

##### § 3352. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the congressional intelligence committees;

(B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;

(D) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;

(E) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;

(F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives;

(G) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; and

(H) the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives.

(2) Appropriate industry partner The term “appropriate industry partner” means a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as defined in section 101(a) of Executive Order No. 12829 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note; relating to National Industrial Security Program)) that is participating in the National Industrial Security Program established by such Executive order.

(3) Continuous vetting The term “continuous vetting” has the meaning given such term in Executive Order No. 13467 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note; relating to reforming processes for determining suitability for government employment, fitness for contractor employees, and eligibility for access to classified national security information).

(4) Council The term “Council” means the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing Performance Accountability Council established pursuant to such Executive order, or any successor entity.

(5) Reciprocity The term “reciprocity” means reciprocal recognition by Federal departments and agencies of eligibility for access to classified information.

(6) Security Executive Agent The term “Security Executive Agent” means the officer serving as the Security Executive Agent pursuant to [section 3162a of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3162a).

(7) Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent The term “Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent” means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management acting as the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent in accordance with Executive Order No. 13467 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note; relating to reforming processes related to suitability for Government employment, fitness for contractor employees, and eligibility for access to classified national security information), or any successor entity.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVI, § 6601](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVI/s6601), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2209](/us/stat/133/2209).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in text, means title LXVI of div. E of [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92), which enacted this section and sections 3162a and 3352a to 3352f of this title and amended sections 3033, 3104, 3163, and 3164 of this title. For complete classification of title LXVI to the Code, see Tables.

Executive Order No. 12829, referred to in par. (2), is Ex. Ord. No. 12829, Jan. 6, 1993, 58 F.R. 3479, which is set out as a note under [section 3161 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3161).

Executive Order No. 13467, referred to in pars. (3), (4), and (7), is Ex. Ord. No. 13467, June 30, 2008, 73 F.R. 38103, which is set out as a note under [section 3161 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3161).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Oversight and Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Accountability of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.

#### Definitions

For definition of “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in par. (1)(A), see [section 5003 of div. E of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/dE/s5003), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
