---
title: "§ 6251. Executive management training in Department of Energy"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6251"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6251"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/139/1417).)"
---
# § 6251. Executive management training in Department of Energy

##### § 6251. Executive management training in Department of Energy

(a) Establishment of Training Program.— The Secretary of Energy shall establish and implement a management training program for personnel of the Department of Energy involved in the management of atomic energy defense activities.

(b) Training Provisions.— The training program shall at a minimum include instruction in the following areas:

(1) Department of Energy policy and procedures for management and operation of atomic energy defense facilities.

(2) Methods of evaluating technical performance.

(3) Federal and State environmental laws and requirements for compliance with such environmental laws, including timely compliance with reporting requirements in such laws.

(4) The establishment of program milestones and methods to evaluate success in meeting such milestones.

(5) Methods for conducting long-range technical and budget planning.

(6) Procedures for reviewing and applying innovative technology to defense environmental cleanup.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/139/1417).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6251 was renumbered [section 8301 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8301).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2721 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2721), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
