---
title: "§ 3333. Rangeland research grants"
identifier: "USC-T7-S3333"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section3333"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, § 1480](/us/pl/95/113/tXIV/s1480), as added [Pub. L. 97–98, title XIV, § 1440(a)](/us/pl/97/98/tXIV/s1440/a), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1319](/us/stat/95/1319); amended [Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, § 7209(d)](/us/pl/107/171/tVII/s7209/d), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 445](/us/stat/116/445); [Pub. L. 113–79, title VII, § 7128(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/113/79/tVII/s7128/b/1/C), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 878](/us/stat/128/878); [Pub. L. 115–334, title VII, § 7614(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/115/"
---
# § 3333. Rangeland research grants

##### § 3333. Rangeland research grants

(a) In general The Secretary may make grants to—

(1) land-grant colleges and universities, State agricultural experiment stations, and colleges, universities, and Federal laboratories having a demonstrable capacity in rangeland research, as determined by the Secretary, to carry out rangeland research; and

(2) the Joe Skeen Institute for Rangeland Restoration for the purposes of facilitating and expanding ongoing State-Federal range management, animal husbandry, and agricultural research, education, and extension programs to meet the targeted, emerging, and future needs of western United States rangelands and associated natural resources.

(b) Matching requirements

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), this grant program shall be based on a matching formula of 50 percent Federal and 50 percent non-Federal funding (including funding from an agricultural commodity promotion, research, and information program).

(2) Exception Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a grant to a Federal laboratory or a grant under subsection (a)(2).

*([Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, § 1480](/us/pl/95/113/tXIV/s1480), as added [Pub. L. 97–98, title XIV, § 1440(a)](/us/pl/97/98/tXIV/s1440/a), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1319](/us/stat/95/1319); amended [Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, § 7209(d)](/us/pl/107/171/tVII/s7209/d), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 445](/us/stat/116/445); [Pub. L. 113–79, title VII, § 7128(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/113/79/tVII/s7128/b/1/C), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 878](/us/stat/128/878); [Pub. L. 115–334, title VII, § 7614(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/115/334/tVII/s7614/b/1/C), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4834](/us/stat/132/4834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

2014—[Pub. L. 113–79](/us/pl/113/79) struck out subsec. (a) designation and heading and subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) related to matching requirements.

2002—[Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171) inserted section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary may make grants to land-grant colleges and universities, State agricultural experiment stations, and to colleges, universities, and Federal laboratories having a demonstrable capacity in rangeland research, as determined by the Secretary, to carry out rangeland research. Except in the case of Federal laboratories, this grant program shall be based on a matching formula of 50 per centum Federal and 50 per centum non-Federal funding.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334) applicable to grants, cooperative agreements, or other awards made after Dec. 20, 2018, with matching funds requirement in effect on Dec. 20, 2018, to continue to apply to such grant, cooperative agreement, or other award, see [section 7614(c) of Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334/s7614/c), set out as a note under [section 3151 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s3151).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 22, 1981, see [section 1801 of Pub. L. 97–98](/us/pl/97/98/s1801), set out as a note under [section 4301 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4301).
