---
title: "§ 2220. Certain officials and employees of Department and others not subject to restriction on payment of compensation to Government officials and employees"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2220"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2220"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([July 24, 1919, ch. 26](/us/act/1919-07-24/ch26), [41 Stat. 270](/us/stat/41/270); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 5](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s5), [68 Stat. 1227](/us/stat/68/1227).)"
---
# § 2220. Certain officials and employees of Department and others not subject to restriction on payment of compensation to Government officials and employees

##### § 2220. Certain officials and employees of Department and others not subject to restriction on payment of compensation to Government officials and employees

The officials and the employees of the Department of Agriculture engaged in the activities described in [section 2279i of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2279i) and paid in whole or in part out of funds contributed as provided therein, and the persons, corporations, or associations making contributions as therein provided, shall not be subject to the provisions of [section 209 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s209); nor shall any official or employee engaged in the cooperative activities of the Forest Service, or the persons, corporations, or associations contributing to such activities be subject to such section.

*([July 24, 1919, ch. 26](/us/act/1919-07-24/ch26), [41 Stat. 270](/us/stat/41/270); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 5](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s5), [68 Stat. 1227](/us/stat/68/1227).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

“[Section 209 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s209)” substituted in text for “[section 1914 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1914)” on authority of [section 2 of Pub. L. 87–849](/us/pl/87/849/s2), Oct. 23, 1962, [76 Stat. 1126](/us/stat/76/1126), which repealed section 1914 and supplanted it with section 209, and which provided that exemptions from section 1914 shall be deemed exemptions from section 209. For further details, see Exemptions note set out under [section 203 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s203), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

Section was formerly classified to sections 67 and 564 of Title 5 prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378). Thereafter, section was classified to [section 450h of this title](/us/usc/t7/s450h) prior to its transfer to this section.

#### Amendments

1954—Act Sept. 3, 1954, substituted “[section 1914 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1914)” for reference to proviso in Act of March 3, 1917 ([5 U.S.C. 66](/us/usc/t5/s66)).
