---
title: "§ 4658. Defense Production Act of 1950 efforts"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4658"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4658"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCIX, § 9908](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCIX/s9908), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4860](/us/stat/134/4860).)"
---
# § 4658. Defense Production Act of 1950 efforts

##### § 4658. Defense Production Act of 1950 efforts

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after January 1, 2021, the President shall submit to Congress a report on a plan of action for any use of authorities available in title III of the Defense Production Act of 1950 ([50 U.S.C. 4531](/us/usc/t50/s4531) et seq.) to establish or enhance a domestic production capability for microelectronics technologies and related technologies, subject to—

(1) the availability of appropriations for that purpose; and

(2) a determination made under the plan pursuant to such title III that such technologies are essential to the national defense and that domestic industrial capabilities are insufficient to meet these needs.

(b) Coordination The President shall develop the plan of action required by subsection (a) in consultation with any relevant head of a Federal agency, an advisory committee established under section 708(d) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 ([50 U.S.C. 4558(d)](/us/usc/t50/s4558/d)), and appropriate stakeholders in the private sector.

*([Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCIX, § 9908](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCIX/s9908), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4860](/us/stat/134/4860).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Defense Production Act of 1950, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), [64 Stat. 798](/us/stat/64/798), which is classified principally to chapter 55 (§ 4501 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. Title III of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 4531 et seq.) of chapter 55. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4501 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4501) and Tables.
