---
title: "§ 3204. Installment payment order"
identifier: "USC-T28-S3204"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section3204"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXVI, § 3611](/us/pl/101/647/tXXXVI/s3611), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4955](/us/stat/104/4955).)"
---
# § 3204. Installment payment order

##### § 3204. Installment payment order

(a) Authority To Issue Order.— Subject to subsection (c), if it is shown that the judgment debtor—

then upon motion of the United States and notice to the judgment debtor, the court may, if appropriate, order that the judgment debtor make specified installment payments to the United States. Notice of the motion shall be served on the judgment debtor in the same manner as a summons or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. In fixing the amount of the payments, the court shall take into consideration after a hearing, the income, resources, and reasonable requirements of the judgment debtor and the judgment debtor’s dependents, any other payments to be made in satisfaction of judgments against the judgment debtor, and the amount due on the judgment in favor of the United States.

(1) is receiving or will receive substantial nonexempt disposable earnings from self employment that are not subject to garnishment; or

(2) is diverting or concealing substantial earnings from any source, or property received in lieu of earnings;

(b) Modification of Order.— On motion of the United States or the judgment debtor, and upon a showing that the judgment debtor’s financial circumstances have changed or that assets not previously disclosed by the judgment debtor have been discovered, the court may modify the amount of payments, alter their frequency, or require full payment.

(c) Limitation.—

(1) An order may not be issued under subsection (a), and if so issued shall have no force or effect, against a judgment debtor with respect to whom there is in effect a writ of garnishment of earnings issued under this chapter and based on the same debt.

(2) An order may not be issued under subsection (a) with respect to any earnings of the debtor except nonexempt disposable earnings.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXVI, § 3611](/us/pl/101/647/tXXXVI/s3611), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4955](/us/stat/104/4955).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Nov. 29, 1990, and applicable with respect to certain actions for debts owed the United States pending in court on that effective date, see [section 3631 of Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647/s3631), set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s3001).
