---
title: "§ 410z–2. Boston National Historical Park Advisory Commission"
identifier: "USC-T16-S410z–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section410z–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–431, § 4](/us/pl/93/431/s4), Oct. 1, 1974, [88 Stat. 1185](/us/stat/88/1185).)"
---
# § 410z–2. Boston National Historical Park Advisory Commission

##### § 410z–2. Boston National Historical Park Advisory Commission

(a) Establishment; membership There is established a Boston National Historical Park Advisory Commission (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”) which shall be composed of members appointed by the Secretary as follows:

(1) Three members appointed from recommendations submitted by the Governor of Massachusetts;

(2) Three members appointed from recommendations submitted by the mayor of the city of Boston; and

(3) One member to represent each owner with which the Secretary has concluded a cooperative agreement pursuant to [section 410z–1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s410z–1), to be appointed from recommendations submitted by each such owner.

(b) Termination of Commission The Commission shall terminate ten years from the date of establishment of the Boston National Historical Park.

(c) Vacancies; chairman A vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment (and for the balance of the unexpired term). The Chairman of the Commission shall be designated by the Secretary.

(d) Majority rule The Commission shall act and advise by affirmative vote of a majority of its members.

(e) Consultation between Secretary and Commission The Secretary or his designee shall from time to time, but at least semiannually, consult with the Commission with respect to matters relating to the development of the Boston National Historical Park.

(f) Compensation; payment of expenses Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation as such. The Secretary is authorized to pay the expenses reasonably incurred by the Commission in carrying out its responsibilities under this subchapter upon presentation of vouchers signed by the Chairman.

*([Pub. L. 93–431, § 4](/us/pl/93/431/s4), Oct. 1, 1974, [88 Stat. 1185](/us/stat/88/1185).)*
