---
title: "§ 295n–1. Application"
identifier: "USC-T42-S295n–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section295n–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VII, § 796, as added [Pub. L. 105–392, title I, § 106(a)(2)(F)](/us/pl/105/392/tI/s106/a/2/F), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3557](/us/stat/112/3557).)"
---
# § 295n–1. Application

##### § 295n–1. Application

(a) In general To be eligible to receive a grant or contract under this subchapter, an eligible entity shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an application that meets the requirements of this section, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(b) Plan An application submitted under this section shall contain the plan of the applicant for carrying out a project with amounts received under this subchapter. Such plan shall be consistent with relevant Federal, State, or regional health professions program plans.

(c) Performance outcome standards An application submitted under this section shall contain a specification by the applicant entity of performance outcome standards that the project to be funded under the grant or contract will be measured against. Such standards shall address relevant health workforce needs that the project will meet. The recipient of a grant or contract under this section shall meet the standards set forth in the grant or contract application.

(d) Linkages An application submitted under this section shall contain a description of the linkages with relevant educational and health care entities, including training programs for other health professionals as appropriate, that the project to be funded under the grant or contract will establish. To the extent practicable, grantees under this section shall establish linkages with health care providers who provide care for underserved communities and populations.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VII, § 796, as added [Pub. L. 105–392, title I, § 106(a)(2)(F)](/us/pl/105/392/tI/s106/a/2/F), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3557](/us/stat/112/3557).)*
