---
title: "§ 1364. Annual report by designated agencies to Secretary; reports by Secretary to President and Congress"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1364"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1364"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–182, § 14](/us/pl/89/182/s14), Sept. 14, 1965, [79 Stat. 683](/us/stat/79/683).)"
---
# § 1364. Annual report by designated agencies to Secretary; reports by Secretary to President and Congress

##### § 1364. Annual report by designated agencies to Secretary; reports by Secretary to President and Congress

(a) Agency reports Each designated agency shall make an annual report to the Secretary on or before the first day of September of each year on the work accomplished under the technical services program and the status of current services, together with a detailed statement of the amounts received under any of the provisions of this chapter during the preceding fiscal year, and of their disbursement.

(b) Reports of Secretary of Commerce The Secretary shall make a complete report with respect to the administration of this chapter to the President and the Congress not later than January 31 following the end of each fiscal year for which amounts are appropriated pursuant to this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 89–182, § 14](/us/pl/89/182/s14), Sept. 14, 1965, [79 Stat. 683](/us/stat/79/683).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which a report related to the “State Technical Services Act” required under “[15 U.S.C. 7364](/us/usc/t15/s7364)”, probably referring to the report related to the State Technical Services Act of 1965 required under subsec. (b) of this section, is listed on page 52), see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance.
