---
title: "§ 8173. Information technology activities of the Financial Services Center"
identifier: "USC-T38-S8173"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section8173"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIV/s403/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5488](/us/stat/136/5488).)"
---
# § 8173. Information technology activities of the Financial Services Center

##### § 8173. Information technology activities of the Financial Services Center

(a) Management.— Consistent with sections 11302 and 11319 of title 40—

(1) the Chief Information Officer of the Department shall—

(A) exercise authority over the management, governance, and oversight processes relating to existing or proposed information technology of the Financial Services Center of the Department, or such successor office; and

(B) supervise the information technology employees and contractors of the Financial Services Center; and

(2) the Director of the Financial Services Center of the Department, or the head of such successor office, may not enter into a contract or other agreement for information technology or information technology services unless the contract or other agreement has been reviewed and approved by the Chief Information Officer.

(b) Oversight.— The Chief Information Officer shall have oversight and operational authority over all information security practices of the Financial Services Center of the Department.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIV/s403/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5488](/us/stat/136/5488).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title IV, § 403(d)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIV/s403/d), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5490](/us/stat/136/5490), provided that: “(1) Effective date.—Section 8173 of such title, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 29, 2022]. “(2) Applicability.—Subsection (a)(2) of such section shall apply with respect to contracts and agreements entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.”
