---
title: "§ 8692. Ford-class aircraft carriers: cost limitation baselines"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8692"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8692"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title I, § 121(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tI/s121/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1233](/us/stat/133/1233).)"
---
# § 8692. Ford-class aircraft carriers: cost limitation baselines

##### § 8692. Ford-class aircraft carriers: cost limitation baselines

(a) Limitation.— The total amounts obligated or expended from funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, or for any other procurement account, may not exceed the following amounts for the following aircraft carriers:

(1) $13,224,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft carrier designated CVN–78.

(2) $11,398,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft carrier designated CVN–79.

(3) $12,202,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft carrier designated CVN–80.

(4) $12,451,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft carrier designated CVN–81.

(b) Exclusion of Battle and Interim Spares From Cost Limitation.— The Secretary of the Navy shall exclude from the determination of the amounts set forth in subsection (a) the costs of the following items:

(1) CVN–78 class battle spares.

(2) Interim spares.

(3) Increases attributable to economic inflation after December 1, 2018, not otherwise included in the amounts listed in subsection (a).

(c) Written Notice and Briefing on Change in Amount.— The Secretary of the Navy may adjust an amount listed in subsection (a) not fewer than 15 days after submitting written notice and providing a briefing to the congressional defense committees, each of which shall include the amount and rationale of any change and the resulting amount after such change.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title I, § 121(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tI/s121/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1233](/us/stat/133/1233).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Another section 8692 was renumbered [section 8693 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8693).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8692, [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 538](/us/stat/70A/538), provided qualifications to receive a rating of pilot in time of peace, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 92–168, § 3(1)](/us/pl/92/168/s3/1), Nov. 24, 1971, [85 Stat. 489](/us/stat/85/489). See [section 2003 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2003).
