---
title: "§ 20711. Establishing a national strategy to combat human trafficking"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20711"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20711"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–164, title II, § 211](/us/pl/109/164/tII/s211), formerly [Pub. L. 114–22, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/114/22/tVI/s606), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 260](/us/stat/129/260); [Pub. L. 115–392](/us/pl/115/392), §§ 9, 15, Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5254](/us/stat/132/5254), 5256; renumbered [§ 211 of Pub. L. 109–164](/us/pl/109/164/s211), [Pub. L. 117–347, title I, § 106(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/347/tI/s106/b/1), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6204](/us/stat/136/6204).)"
---
# § 20711. Establishing a national strategy to combat human trafficking

##### § 20711. Establishing a national strategy to combat human trafficking

(a) In general The Attorney General shall implement and maintain a National Strategy for Combating Human Trafficking (referred to in this section as the “National Strategy”) in accordance with this section.

(b) Required contents of National Strategy The National Strategy shall include the following:

(1) Integrated Federal, State, local, and tribal efforts to investigate and prosecute human trafficking cases, including—

(A) the development by each United States attorney, in consultation with State, local, and tribal government agencies, of a district-specific strategic plan to coordinate the identification of victims and the investigation and prosecution of human trafficking crimes;

(B) the participation in any Federal, State, local, or tribal human trafficking task force operating in the district of the United States attorney; and

(C) any other efforts intended to enhance the level of coordination and cooperation, as determined by the Attorney General.

(2) Case coordination within the Department of Justice, including specific integration, coordination, and collaboration, as appropriate, on human trafficking investigations between and among the United States attorneys, the Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit, the Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(3) Annual budget priorities and Federal efforts dedicated to preventing and combating human trafficking, including resources dedicated to the Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit, the Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and all other entities that receive Federal support that have a goal or mission to combat the exploitation of adults and children.

(4) An ongoing assessment of the future trends, challenges, and opportunities, including new investigative strategies, techniques, and technologies, that will enhance Federal, State, local, and tribal efforts to combat human trafficking.

(5) Encouragement of cooperation, coordination, and mutual support between private sector and other entities and organizations and Federal agencies to combat human trafficking, including the involvement of State, local, and tribal government agencies to the extent Federal programs are involved.

(6) A national strategy to prevent human trafficking and reduce demand for human trafficking victims.

(c) Human Trafficking Justice Coordinators The Attorney General shall designate in each Federal judicial district not less than 1 assistant United States attorney to serve as the Human Trafficking Coordinator for the district who, in addition to any other responsibilities, works with a human trafficking victim-witness specialist and shall be responsible for—

(1) implementing the National Strategy with respect to all forms of human trafficking, including labor trafficking and sex trafficking;

(2) prosecuting, or assisting in the prosecution of, human trafficking cases;

(3) conducting public outreach and awareness activities relating to human trafficking;

(4) ensuring the collection of data required to be collected under clause (viii) of [section 7103(d)(7)(Q) of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7103/d/7/Q), as added by section 17 of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017,11 See References in Text note below. is sought;

(5) coordinating with other Federal agencies, State, tribal, and local law enforcement agencies, victim service providers, and other relevant non-governmental organizations to build partnerships on activities relating to human trafficking; and

(6) ensuring the collection of restitution for victims is sought as required to be ordered under [section 1593 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1593) and section 2429 of such title, as added by section 3 of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017.

(d) Department of Justice Coordinator Not later than 60 days after December 21, 2018, the Attorney General shall designate an official who shall coordinate human trafficking efforts within the Department of Justice who, in addition to any other responsibilities, shall be responsible for—

(1) coordinating, promoting, and supporting the work of the Department of Justice relating to human trafficking, including investigation, prosecution, training, outreach, victim support, grant-making, and policy activities;

(2) in consultation with survivors of human trafficking, or anti-human trafficking organizations, producing and disseminating, including making publicly available when appropriate, replication guides and training materials for law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges, emergency responders, individuals working in victim services, adult and child protective services, social services, and public safety, medical personnel, mental health personnel, financial services personnel, and any other individuals whose work may bring them in contact with human trafficking regarding how to—

(A) identify signs of human trafficking;

(B) conduct investigations in human trafficking cases;

(C) address evidentiary issues and other legal issues; and

(D) appropriately assess, respond to, and interact with victims and witnesses in human trafficking cases, including in administrative, civil, and criminal judicial proceedings; and

(3) carrying out such other duties as the Attorney General determines necessary in connection with enhancing the understanding, prevention, and detection of, and response to, human trafficking.

*([Pub. L. 109–164, title II, § 211](/us/pl/109/164/tII/s211), formerly [Pub. L. 114–22, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/114/22/tVI/s606), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 260](/us/stat/129/260); [Pub. L. 115–392](/us/pl/115/392), §§ 9, 15, Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5254](/us/stat/132/5254), 5256; renumbered [§ 211 of Pub. L. 109–164](/us/pl/109/164/s211), [Pub. L. 117–347, title I, § 106(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/347/tI/s106/b/1), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6204](/us/stat/136/6204).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Clause (viii) of [section 7103(d)(7)(Q) of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7103/d/7/Q), as added by section 17 of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017, referred to subsec. (c)(4), probably should be a reference to the clause as added by section 16 of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017, which is [section 16 of Pub. L. 115–392](/us/pl/115/392/s16), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5257](/us/stat/132/5257).

Section 2429 of such title, as added by section 3 of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017, referred to in subsec. (c)(6), means [section 2429 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2429), as added by [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 115–392](/us/pl/115/392/s3/a), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5251](/us/stat/132/5251).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14044h of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14044h), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b)(1)(B) to (D). [Pub. L. 115–392, § 15(1)](/us/pl/115/392/s15/1), redesignated subpars. (C) and (D) as (B) and (C), respectively, and struck out former subpar. (B) which read as follows: “the appointment of not fewer than 1 assistant United States attorney in each district dedicated to the prosecution of human trafficking cases or responsible for implementing the National Strategy;”.

Subsec. (b)(6). [Pub. L. 115–392, § 9](/us/pl/115/392/s9), added par. (6).

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 115–392, § 15(2)](/us/pl/115/392/s15/2), added subsecs. (c) and (d).
