---
title: "§ 10307. Types of research and development"
identifier: "USC-T42-S10307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section10307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–242, title I, § 108](/us/pl/98/242/tI/s108), Mar. 22, 1984, [98 Stat. 101](/us/stat/98/101); [Pub. L. 101–397, § 1(k)](/us/pl/101/397/s1/k), (*l*), Sept. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 853](/us/stat/104/853).)"
---
# § 10307. Types of research and development

##### § 10307. Types of research and development

(1) Aspects of the hydrologic cycle;

(2) Supply and demand for water;

(3) Demineralization of saline and other impaired waters;

(4) Conservation and best use of available supplies of water and methods of increasing such supplies;

(5) Water reuse;

(6) Depletion, contamination, and degradation of groundwater supplies;

(7) Improvements in the productivity of water when used for agricultural, municipal, and commercial purposes;

(8) The economic, legal, engineering, social, recreational, biological, geographic, ecological, and other aspects of water quality and quantity problems;

(9) Scientific information dissemination activities, including identifying, assembling, and interpreting the results of scientific and engineering research on water resources problems; and

(10) Providing means for improved communication of research results, having due regard for the varying conditions and needs for the respective States and regions.

*([Pub. L. 98–242, title I, § 108](/us/pl/98/242/tI/s108), Mar. 22, 1984, [98 Stat. 101](/us/stat/98/101); [Pub. L. 101–397, § 1(k)](/us/pl/101/397/s1/k), (*l*), Sept. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 853](/us/stat/104/853).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1990—Par. (6). [Pub. L. 101–397, § 1(k)](/us/pl/101/397/s1/k), which directed that “, contamination,” be inserted after “depletion”, was executed by making the insertion after “Depletion” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Par. (8). [Pub. L. 101–397, § 1](/us/pl/101/397/s1)(*l*), inserted “quality and quantity” after “water”.
