---
title: "§ 12604. Billeting in Department of Defense facilities: Reserves attending inactive-duty training"
identifier: "USC-T10-S12604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section12604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title VI, § 663(a)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–168; amended [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VI, § 603(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVI/s603/a/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1765](/us/stat/135/1765).)"
---
# § 12604. Billeting in Department of Defense facilities: Reserves attending inactive-duty training

##### § 12604. Billeting in Department of Defense facilities: Reserves attending inactive-duty training

(a) Authority for Billeting on Same Basis as Active Duty Members Traveling Under Orders.— The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations authorizing a Reserve traveling to inactive-duty training at a location more than 50 miles from that Reserve’s residence to be eligible for billeting in Department of Defense facilities on the same basis and to the same extent as a member of the armed forces on active duty who is traveling under orders away from the member’s permanent duty station.

(b) Proof of Reason for Travel.— The Secretary shall include in the regulations the means for confirming a Reserve’s eligibility for billeting under subsection (a).

(c) Lodging in Kind.—

(1) In the case of a member of a reserve component performing active duty for training or inactive-duty training who is not otherwise entitled to travel and transportation allowances in connection with such duty, the Secretary concerned may reimburse the member for housing service charge expenses incurred by the member in occupying transient government housing during the performance of such duty. If transient government housing is unavailable or inadequate, the Secretary concerned may provide the member with lodging in kind.

(2) Any payment or other benefit under this subsection shall be provided in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned.

(3) The Secretary may pay service charge expenses under paragraph (1) and expenses of providing lodging in kind under such paragraph out of funds appropriated for operation and maintenance for the reserve component concerned. Use of a Government charge card is authorized for payment of these expenses.

(4) Decisions regarding the availability or adequacy of government housing at a military installation under paragraph (1) shall be made by the installation commander.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title VI, § 663(a)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–168; amended [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VI, § 603(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVI/s603/a/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1765](/us/stat/135/1765).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title VI, § 663(b)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–168, provided that: “[Section 12604 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s12604), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to periods of inactive-duty training beginning more than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 2000].”
