---
title: "§ 7717. Personnel outside the United States"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7717"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7717"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–199, div. D, title VI, § 618](/us/pl/108/199/dD/tVI/s618), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 225](/us/stat/118/225).)"
---
# § 7717. Personnel outside the United States

##### § 7717. Personnel outside the United States

(a) Assignment to United States embassies An employee of the Corporation, including an individual detailed to or contracted by the Corporation, may be assigned to a United States diplomatic mission or consular post or a United States Agency for International Development field mission.

(b) Privileges and immunities The Secretary of State shall seek to ensure that an employee of the Corporation, including an individual detailed to or contracted by the Corporation, and the members of the family of such employee, while the employee is performing duties in any country or place outside the United States, enjoy the privileges and immunities that are enjoyed by a member of the Foreign Service, or the family of a member of the Foreign Service, as appropriate, of comparable rank and salary of such employee, if such employee or a member of the family of such employee is not a national of or permanently resident in such country or place.

(c) Responsibility of chief of mission An employee of the Corporation, including an individual detailed to or contracted by the Corporation, and a member of the family of such employee, shall be subject to [section 3927 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3927) in the same manner as United States Government employees while the employee is performing duties in any country or place outside the United States if such employee or member of the family of such employee is not a national of or permanently resident in such country or place.

*([Pub. L. 108–199, div. D, title VI, § 618](/us/pl/108/199/dD/tVI/s618), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 225](/us/stat/118/225).)*
