---
title: "§ 3672. Placement"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3672"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3672"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1232](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1232), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 470](/us/stat/93/470).)"
---
# § 3672. Placement

##### § 3672. Placement

(a) Citizens separated from employment with Panama Canal Company or Canal Zone Government Any citizen of the United States—

shall, upon the employee’s request, be accorded appropriate assistance for placement in vacant positions in the Government of the United States in the United States.

(1) who, on March 31, 1979, was an employee of the Panama Canal Company or the Canal Zone Government;

(2) who separates or is scheduled to separate on or after such date for any reason other than misconduct or delinquency; and

(3) who is not placed in another appropriate position in the Government of the United States in the Republic of Panama;

(b) Citizens eliminated from employment with Executive agency or Canal Zone Government as a result of implementation of Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 Any citizen of the United States—

shall, upon the employee’s request, be accorded appropriate assistance for placement in vacant positions in the Government of the United States in the United States.

(1) who, on March 31, 1979, was employed in the Canal Zone as an employee of an Executive agency (other than the Panama Canal Company or the Canal Zone Government) or the Smithsonian Institution;

(2) whose position is eliminated as the result of the implementation of any provision of the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and related agreements; and

(3) who is not appointed to another appropriate position in the Government of the United States in the Republic of Panama;

(c) Establishment and administration of program by Office of Personnel Management The Office of Personnel Management shall establish and administer a Government-wide placement program for all eligible employees who request appointment to positions under this section.

(d) Effective date The provisions of this section shall take effect on September 27, 1979.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1232](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1232), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 470](/us/stat/93/470).)*
