---
title: "§ 4034. Retroactive application for certain liquidations and reliquidations of textile or apparel goods"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4034"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4034"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–53, title II, § 205](/us/pl/109/53/tII/s205), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 483](/us/stat/119/483); [Pub. L. 109–280, title XIV, § 1634(d)](/us/pl/109/280/tXIV/s1634/d), Aug. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/120/1168).)"
---
# § 4034. Retroactive application for certain liquidations and reliquidations of textile or apparel goods

##### § 4034. Retroactive application for certain liquidations and reliquidations of textile or apparel goods

(a) In general Notwithstanding [section 1514 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1514) or any other provision of law, and subject to subsection (c), an entry—

shall be liquidated or reliquidated at the applicable rate of duty for that good set out in the Schedule of the United States to Annex 3.3 of the Agreement, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall refund any excess customs duties paid with respect to such entry.

(1) of a textile or apparel good—

(A) of a CAFTA–DR country that the United States Trade Representative has designated as an eligible country under subsection (b), and

(B) that would have qualified as an originating good under [section 4033 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4033) if the good had been entered after the date of entry into force of the Agreement for that country,

(2) that was made on or after January 1, 2004, and before the date of the entry into force of the Agreement with respect to that country or any other CAFTA–DR country, and

(3) for which customs duties in excess of the applicable rate of duty for that good set out in the Schedule of the United States to Annex 3.3 of the Agreement were paid,

(b) Eligible country The United States Trade Representative shall determine, in accordance with article 3.20 of the Agreement, which CAFTA–DR countries are eligible countries for purposes of this section, and shall publish a list of all such countries in the Federal Register.

(c) Requests Liquidation or reliquidation may be made under subsection (a) with respect to an entry of a textile or apparel good only if a request therefor is filed with the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, within such period as the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection shall establish by regulation in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, that contains sufficient information to enable the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection—

(1)

(A) to locate the entry; or

(B) to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be located; and

(2) to determine that the good satisfies the conditions set out in subsection (a).

(d) Definition As used in this section, the term “entry” includes a withdrawal from warehouse for consumption.

*([Pub. L. 109–53, title II, § 205](/us/pl/109/53/tII/s205), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 483](/us/stat/119/483); [Pub. L. 109–280, title XIV, § 1634(d)](/us/pl/109/280/tXIV/s1634/d), Aug. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/120/1168).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107/d), see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 109–280](/us/pl/109/280) inserted “or any other CAFTA–DR country” after “that country”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–280](/us/pl/109/280) applicable with respect to goods entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the 15th day after Aug. 17, 2006, see [section 1641 of Pub. L. 109–280](/us/pl/109/280/s1641), set out as a note under [section 58c of this title](/us/usc/t19/s58c).

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107), set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4001).
