---
title: "§ 7106. Petition and review"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–407, § 7](/us/pl/103/407/s7), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4224](/us/stat/108/4224).)"
---
# § 7106. Petition and review

##### § 7106. Petition and review

(a) Petition

(1) In general A person subject to an order issued under this chapter may file with the Secretary a petition—

(A) stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not established in accordance with law; and

(B) requesting a modification of the order or an exemption from the order.

(2) Hearings The petitioner shall be given an opportunity for a hearing on the petition, in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary.

(3) Ruling After the hearing, the Secretary shall make a ruling on the petition. The ruling shall be final if the ruling is in accordance with law.

(b) Review

(1) Commencement of action The district court of the United States for any district in which a person who is a petitioner under subsection (a) resides or carries on business shall have jurisdiction to review the ruling on the petition of the person, if a complaint for that purpose is filed not later than 20 days after the date of the entry of the ruling by the Secretary under subsection (a)(3).

(2) Process Service of process in a proceeding may be conducted on the Secretary by delivering a copy of the complaint to the Secretary, under such rules or regulations as are considered necessary by the Secretary to facilitate the service of process.

(3) Remands If the court determines that the ruling is not in accordance with law, the court shall remand the matter to the Secretary with directions—

(A) to make such ruling as the court shall determine to be in accordance with law; or

(B) to take such further action as, in the opinion of the court, the law requires.

*([Pub. L. 103–407, § 7](/us/pl/103/407/s7), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4224](/us/stat/108/4224).)*
