---
title: "§ 1891a. Community-based restoration program for fishery and coastal habitats"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1891a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1891a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–479, title I, § 117](/us/pl/109/479/tI/s117), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3606](/us/stat/120/3606).)"
---
# § 1891a. Community-based restoration program for fishery and coastal habitats

##### § 1891a. Community-based restoration program for fishery and coastal habitats

(a) In general The Secretary of Commerce shall establish a community-based fishery and coastal habitat restoration program to implement and support the restoration of fishery and coastal habitats.

(b) Authorized activities In carrying out the program, the Secretary may—

(1) provide funding and technical expertise to fishery and coastal communities to assist them in restoring fishery and coastal habitat;

(2) advance the science and monitoring of coastal habitat restoration;

(3) transfer restoration technologies to the private sector, the public, and other governmental agencies;

(4) develop public-private partnerships to accomplish sound coastal restoration projects;

(5) promote significant community support and volunteer participation in fishery and coastal habitat restoration;

(6) promote stewardship of fishery and coastal habitats; and

(7) leverage resources through national, regional, and local public-private partnerships.

*([Pub. L. 109–479, title I, § 117](/us/pl/109/479/tI/s117), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3606](/us/stat/120/3606).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 2006, and not as part of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act which comprises this chapter.
