---
title: "§ 1015c. Database of student information prohibited"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1015c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1015c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title I, § 134](/us/pl/89/329/tI/s134), as added [Pub. L. 110–315, title I, § 113](/us/pl/110/315/tI/s113), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3110](/us/stat/122/3110).)"
---
# § 1015c. Database of student information prohibited

##### § 1015c. Database of student information prohibited

(a) Prohibition Except as described in subsection (b), nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the development, implementation, or maintenance of a Federal database of personally identifiable information on individuals receiving assistance under this chapter, attending institutions receiving assistance under this chapter, or otherwise involved in any studies or other collections of data under this chapter, including a student unit record system, an education bar code system, or any other system that tracks individual students over time.

(b) Exception The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to a system (or a successor system) that—

(1) is necessary for the operation of programs authorized by subchapter II, IV, or VII; and

(2) was in use by the Secretary, directly or through a contractor, as of the day before August 14, 2008.

(c) State databases Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a State or a consortium of States from developing, implementing, or maintaining State-developed databases that track individuals over time, including student unit record systems that contain information related to enrollment, attendance, graduation and retention rates, student financial assistance, and graduate employment outcomes.

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title I, § 134](/us/pl/89/329/tI/s134), as added [Pub. L. 110–315, title I, § 113](/us/pl/110/315/tI/s113), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3110](/us/stat/122/3110).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1015c, [Pub. L. 89–329, title I, § 134](/us/pl/89/329/tI/s134), as added [Pub. L. 102–325, title I, § 101](/us/pl/102/325/tI/s101), July 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 466](/us/stat/106/466), defined “public broadcasting entity” for purposes of former part C of this subchapter, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244).

Another prior section 1015c, [Pub. L. 89–329, title I, § 134](/us/pl/89/329/tI/s134), as added [Pub. L. 94–482, title I, § 101(g)(3)](/us/pl/94/482/tI/s101/g/3), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2089](/us/stat/90/2089), related to annual reports by Assistant Secretary and content of these reports, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 96–374](/us/pl/96/374).
