---
title: "§ 51315. Gifts to the Merchant Marine Academy"
identifier: "USC-T46-S51315"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section51315"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–417, div. C, title XXXV, § 3506(g)(1)](/us/pl/110/417/dC/tXXXV/s3506/g/1), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4764](/us/stat/122/4764); amended [Pub. L. 115–91, div. C, title XXXV, § 3511](/us/pl/115/91/dC/tXXXV/s3511), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1918](/us/stat/131/1918).)"
---
# § 51315. Gifts to the Merchant Marine Academy

##### § 51315. Gifts to the Merchant Marine Academy

(a) In General.— The Maritime Administrator may accept and use conditional or unconditional gifts of money or property for the benefit of the United States Merchant Marine Academy, including acceptance and use for non-appropriated fund instrumentalities of the Merchant Marine Academy. The Maritime Administrator may accept a gift of services in carrying out the Administrator’s duties and powers. Property accepted under this section and proceeds from that property must be used, as nearly as possible, in accordance with the terms of the gift.

(b) Establishment of Academy Gift Fund.— There is established in the Treasury a fund, to be known as the “Academy Gift Fund”. Disbursements from the Fund shall be made on order of the Maritime Administrator. Unless otherwise specified by the terms of the gift, the Maritime Administrator may use monies in the Fund for appropriated or non-appropriated purposes at the Academy. The Fund consists of—

(1) gifts of money;

(2) income from donated property accepted under this section;

(3) proceeds from the sale of donated property; and

(4) income from securities under subsection (c) of this section.

(c) Investment of Fund Balances.— On request of the Maritime Administrator, the Secretary of the Treasury may invest and reinvest amounts in the Fund in securities of, or in securities the principal and interest of which is guaranteed by, the United States Government.

(d) Disbursement Authority.— There are hereby authorized to be disbursed from the Fund such sums as may be on deposit, to remain available until expended.

(e) Deductibility of Gifts.— Gifts accepted under this section are a gift to or for the use of the Government under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

(f) Payment of Expenses.— The Maritime Administrator may pay all necessary expenses in connection with the conveyance or transfer of a gift, devise, or bequest accepted under this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–417, div. C, title XXXV, § 3506(g)(1)](/us/pl/110/417/dC/tXXXV/s3506/g/1), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4764](/us/stat/122/4764); amended [Pub. L. 115–91, div. C, title XXXV, § 3511](/us/pl/115/91/dC/tXXXV/s3511), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1918](/us/stat/131/1918).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (e), is classified generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) added subsec. (f).
