---
title: "§ 9002. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9002"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9002"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–300, § 3](/us/pl/100/300/s3), Apr. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 437](/us/stat/102/437).)"
---
# § 9002. Definitions

##### § 9002. Definitions

(1) the term “applicant” means any person who, pursuant to the Convention, files an application with the United States Central Authority or a Central Authority of any other party to the Convention for the return of a child alleged to have been wrongfully removed or retained or for arrangements for organizing or securing the effective exercise of rights of access pursuant to the Convention;

(2) the term “Convention” means the Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, done at The Hague on October 25, 1980;

(3) the term “Parent Locator Service” means the service established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under [section 653 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s653);

(4) the term “petitioner” means any person who, in accordance with this chapter, files a petition in court seeking relief under the Convention;

(5) the term “person” includes any individual, institution, or other legal entity or body;

(6) the term “respondent” means any person against whose interests a petition is filed in court, in accordance with this chapter, which seeks relief under the Convention;

(7) the term “rights of access” means visitation rights;

(8) the term “State” means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States; and

(9) the term “United States Central Authority” means the agency of the Federal Government designated by the President under [section 9006(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9006/a).

*([Pub. L. 100–300, § 3](/us/pl/100/300/s3), Apr. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 437](/us/stat/102/437).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act” meaning [Pub. L. 100–300](/us/pl/100/300), Apr. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 437](/us/stat/102/437), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note under [section 9001 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9001) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 11602 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s11602), The Public Health and Welfare.
