---
title: "§ 9204. Adverse action"
identifier: "USC-T5-S9204"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section9204"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XI, § 1122(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXI/s1122/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1606](/us/stat/133/1606).)"
---
# § 9204. Adverse action

##### § 9204. Adverse action

(a) First Violation.— If the Director of the Office of Personnel Management determines, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing on the record, that an employee of an agency has violated section 9202, the Director shall—

(1) issue to the employee a written warning that includes a description of the violation and the additional penalties that may apply for subsequent violations; and

(2) file such warning in the employee’s official personnel record file.

(b) Subsequent Violations.— If the Director of the Office of Personnel Management determines, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing on the record, that an employee that was subject to subsection (a) has committed a subsequent violation of section 9202, the Director may take the following action:

(1) For a second violation, suspension of the employee for a period of not more than 7 days.

(2) For a third violation, suspension of the employee for a period of more than 7 days.

(3) For a fourth violation—

(A) suspension of the employee for a period of more than 7 days; and

(B) a civil penalty against the employee in an amount that is not more than $250.

(4) For a fifth violation—

(A) suspension of the employee for a period of more than 7 days; and

(B) a civil penalty against the employee in an amount that is not more than $500.

(5) For any subsequent violation—

(A) suspension of the employee for a period of more than 7 days; and

(B) a civil penalty against the employee in an amount that is not more than $1,000.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XI, § 1122(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXI/s1122/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1606](/us/stat/133/1606).)*
