---
title: "§ 613. Signing of articles of association; forwarding to and filing by Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; organization certificate; contents"
identifier: "USC-T12-S613"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section613"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 25A](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s25A) (pars.), formerly § 25(a), as added [Dec. 24, 1919, ch. 18](/us/act/1919-12-24/ch18), [41 Stat. 378](/us/stat/41/378); amended [Aug. 23, 1935, ch. 614](/us/act/1935-08-23/ch614), title II, § 203(a), [49 Stat. 704](/us/stat/49/704); renumbered § 25A, [Pub. L. 102–242, title I, § 142(e)(2)](/us/pl/102/242/tI/s142/e/2), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2281](/us/stat/105/2281).)"
---
# § 613. Signing of articles of association; forwarding to and filing by Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; organization certificate; contents

##### § 613. Signing of articles of association; forwarding to and filing by Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; organization certificate; contents

Articles of association described in [section 612 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s612) shall be signed by all of the persons intending to participate in the organization of the corporation and, thereafter, shall be forwarded to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and shall be filed and preserved in its office. The persons signing the said articles of association shall, under their hands, make an organization certificate which shall specifically state:

First. The name assumed by such corporation, which shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

Second. The place or places where its operations are to be carried on.

Third. The place in the United States where its home office is to be located.

Fourth. The amount of its capital stock and the number of shares into which the same shall be divided.

Fifth. The names and places of business or residence of the persons executing the certificate and the number of shares to which each has subscribed.

Sixth. The fact that the certificate is made to enable the persons subscribing the same, and all other persons, firms, companies, and corporations, who or which may thereafter subscribe to or purchase shares of the capital stock of such corporation, to avail themselves of the advantages of this subchapter.

*([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 25A](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s25A) (pars.), formerly § 25(a), as added [Dec. 24, 1919, ch. 18](/us/act/1919-12-24/ch18), [41 Stat. 378](/us/stat/41/378); amended [Aug. 23, 1935, ch. 614](/us/act/1935-08-23/ch614), title II, § 203(a), [49 Stat. 704](/us/stat/49/704); renumbered § 25A, [Pub. L. 102–242, title I, § 142(e)(2)](/us/pl/102/242/tI/s142/e/2), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2281](/us/stat/105/2281).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Articles of association described in [section 612 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s612), referred to in text, was in the original “Such articles of association”.

This subchapter, referred to in par. sixth, was in the original “this section”, meaning section 25A of act Dec. 23, 1913, which is classified to this subchapter (§ 611 et seq.).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of par. 4 (undesignated) of section 25A of act Dec. 23, 1913, which comprises this subchapter. For complete classification of section 25A of this Act, see Codification note set out under [section 611 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s611).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Section 203(a) of act Aug. 23, 1935, changed name of Federal Reserve Board to Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
