---
title: "[§ 4571. Repealed. [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(a)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/a/1), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 948](/us/stat/139/948)]"
identifier: "USC-T10-S4571"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4571"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
---
# [§ 4571. Repealed. [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(a)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/a/1), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 948](/us/stat/139/948)]

##### [§ 4571. Repealed. [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(a)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/a/1), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 948](/us/stat/139/948)]

Section, added [Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, § 805(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tVIII/s805/a/1), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4259](/us/stat/124/4259), § 2223a; renumbered § 4571 and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1857(b)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1857/b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4276](/us/stat/134/4276), related to information technology acquisition: planning and oversight processes.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Electromagnetic Spectrum Demonstration Program

[Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title II, § 234](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tII/s234), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/138/1839), which authorized a demonstration program to assess the viability of using wideband adaptive signal processing technology to support simultaneous transmit and receive signals on the same electromagnetic spectrum frequency band, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4001).

#### Policies for Management and Certification of Link 16 Military Tactical Data Link Network

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title II, § 228](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tII/s228), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 199](/us/stat/137/199), as amended by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title II, § 216](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tII/s216), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 775](/us/stat/139/775), which directed the Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement policies to adapt Link 16 system management and certification to align with agile development practices, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4001).

#### Requirements for Deployment of Fifth Generation Information and Communications Capabilities to Military Installations and Other Department Facilities

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XV, § 1526](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXV/s1526), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 557](/us/stat/137/557), which required the Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement a strategy for deploying to military installations and other facilities of the Department of Defense private wireless networks, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2661 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2661).

#### Target Date for Deployment of 5G Wireless Broadband Infrastructure at All Military Installations

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title II, § 221](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tII/s221), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2478](/us/stat/136/2478), which required the Secretary of Defense to establish a target date by which the Secretary plans to deploy 5G wireless broadband infrastructure at all military installations and establish metrics, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2661 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2661).

#### Pilot Programs for Deployment of Telecommunications Infrastructure To Facilitate 5G Deployment on Military Installations

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title II, § 233](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tII/s233), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1614](/us/stat/135/1614), which required each Secretary of a military department to submit a plan for a pilot program for the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure to facilitate the availability of fifth-generation wireless telecommunications services on military installations and to establish a pilot program in accordance with the plan, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2661 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2661).

#### Legacy Information Technologies and Systems Accountability

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XV, § 1522](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXV/s1522), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2041](/us/stat/135/2041), which required the Secretaries of the Army, Navy, and Air Force to initiate efforts to identify legacy applications, software, and information technology within their respective Departments and eliminate any such application, software, or information technology that was no longer required, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2223 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2223).

#### Governance of Fifth-Generation Wireless Networking in the Department of Defense

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title II, § 224](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tII/s224), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3472](/us/stat/134/3472), which required development of a plan to transition fifth-generation (“5G”) wireless technology to operational use within the Department of Defense, designation of the Chief Information Officer as the senior official within Department of Defense with primary responsibility for 5G wireless networking, and the establishment of a cross-functional team for 5G wireless networking, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2223 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2223).

#### Demonstration Project on Use of Certain Technologies for Fifth-Generation Wireless Networking Services

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title II, § 225](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tII/s225), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3475](/us/stat/134/3475), which authorized the Secretary of Defense to carry out a demonstration project to evaluate the maturity, performance, and cost of covered technologies to provide additional options for providers of fifth-generation wireless network services, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2223 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2223).

#### Pilot Program on the Use of Consumption-Based Solutions To Address Software-Intensive Warfighting Capability

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, § 834](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tVIII/s834), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3754](/us/stat/134/3754), which authorized the Secretary of Defense to establish a pilot program to explore the use of consumption-based solutions to address software-intensive warfighting capability, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 3605 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3605).

#### Balancing Security and Innovation in Software Development and Acquisition

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, § 835](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tVIII/s835), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3755](/us/stat/134/3755), which provided for the development of requirements for appropriate software security criteria to be included in solicitations for commercial and developmental solutions and the evaluation of bids submitted in response to such solicitations, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 3206 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3206).

#### Establishment of Secure Next-Generation Wireless Network (5G) Infrastructure for the Nevada Test and Training Range and Base Infrastructure

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title II, § 226](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tII/s226), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1269](/us/stat/133/1269), which required the Secretary of Defense to establish secure fifth-generation wireless network components and capabilities at no fewer than two Department of Defense installations, specifically including the Nevada Test and Training Range, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2661 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2661).

#### Digital Engineering Capability To Automate Testing and Evaluation

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title II, § 231](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tII/s231), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1274](/us/stat/133/1274), which required the Secretary of Defense to establish a digital engineering capability to be used for the development and deployment of digital engineering models for use in the defense acquisition process and to provide testing infrastructure and software to support automated approaches for testing, evaluation, and deployment throughout the defense acquisition process, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 4171 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4171).

#### Strategy and Implementation Plan for Fifth Generation Information and Communications Technologies

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title II, § 254](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tII/s254), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1287](/us/stat/133/1287), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title II, § 232](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tII/s232), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2486](/us/stat/136/2486), which required the Secretary of Defense to develop a strategy for harnessing fifth generation (“5G”) information and communications technologies to enhance military capabilities, maintain a technological advantage on the battlefield, and accelerate the deployment of new commercial products and services enabled by 5G networks throughout the Department of Defense and a plan to implement such strategy, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2223 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2223).

#### Department-Wide Software Science and Technology Strategy

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title II, § 255](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tII/s255), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1288](/us/stat/133/1288), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title II](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tII), §§ 212(c)(1), 215(d)(10), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1588](/us/stat/135/1588), 1594, which required the designation of a single official or existing entity within the Department of Defense as the official or entity with principal responsibility for guiding the development of science and technology activities related to next generation software and software reliant systems for the Department, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4001).

#### Authority for Continuous Integration and Delivery of Software Applications and Upgrades to Embedded Systems

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title VIII, § 800](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tVIII/s800), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1478](/us/stat/133/1478), which authorized establishment of pathways to provide for the efficient and effective acquisition, development, integration, and timely delivery of secure software, was repealed by [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title VIII, § 805(c)(1)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tVIII/s805/c/1), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1972](/us/stat/138/1972). See [section 3603 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3603).

#### Reorientation of Big Data Platform Program

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVI, § 1651](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXVI/s1651), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1759](/us/stat/133/1759), as amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVII, § 1709(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVII/s1709/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4086](/us/stat/134/4086), which directed the Secretary of Defense to reorient the Big Data Platform program and align the reorientation effort under an existing line of effort of the Cyber Strategy of the Department of Defense, was repealed by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(4)(C)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/4/C), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 948](/us/stat/139/948).

#### Policy Regarding the Transition of Data and Applications to the Cloud

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVII, § 1755](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXVII/s1755), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1854](/us/stat/133/1854), which required the development and issuance of enterprise-wide policy and implementing instructions regarding the transition of data and applications to the cloud under the Department of Defense cloud strategy, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2223 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2223).

#### Implementation of Recommendations of the Final Report of the Defense Science Board Task Force on the Design and Acquisition of Software for Defense Systems

[Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 868](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s868), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/132/1902), which required the Secretary of Defense, with certain exceptions, to commence implementation of each recommendation submitted as part of the final report of the Defense Science Board Task Force on the Design and Acquisition of Software for Defense Systems, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 3603 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3603).

#### Activities and Reporting Relating to Department of Defense’s Cloud Initiative

[Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title X, § 1064](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tX/s1064), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1971](/us/stat/132/1971), which required the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense to conduct certain key enabling activities relating to the Department of Defense’s cloud initiative and submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the initiative, was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 2223 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2223).

[Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 869(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s869/a)–(d), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/132/1902), 1903, provided that the Secretary of Defense was to include certain systems in the pilot program to use agile or iterative development methods pursuant to [section 873 of Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91/s873), formerly set out below.

[Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, § 873](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVIII/s873), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1498](/us/stat/131/1498), as amended by [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 869(e)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s869/e), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1903](/us/stat/132/1903), provided that the Secretary of Defense was to establish a pilot program to tailor and simplify software development requirements and methods for major software-intensive warfighting systems and defense business systems, and that such pilot program would terminate on Sept. 30, 2023.

#### Global Theater Security Cooperation Management Information System

[Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XII, § 1272](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tXII/s1272), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/131/1695), which directed the Secretary of Defense, not later than 180 days after Dec. 12, 2017, to update relevant security cooperation guidance for the Global Theater Security Cooperation Management Information System and submit a report to the congressional defense committees, was repealed by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(6)(D)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/6/D), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 948](/us/stat/139/948).

#### Operational Metrics for Joint Information Environment and Supporting Activities

[Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title VIII, § 854](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tVIII/s854), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3459](/us/stat/128/3459), which directed the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, not later than 180 days after Dec. 19, 2014, to issue guidance for measuring the operational effectiveness and efficiency of the Joint Information Environment within the military departments, Defense Agencies, and combatant commands, was repealed by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(9)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/9), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 949](/us/stat/139/949).

#### Data Servers and Centers

[Pub. L. 112–81, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2867](/us/pl/112/81/dB/tXXVIII/s2867), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1704](/us/stat/125/1704), as amended by [Pub. L. 112–239, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2853](/us/pl/112/239/dB/tXXVIII/s2853), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2161](/us/stat/126/2161); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1051(q)(3)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1051/q/3), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1565](/us/stat/131/1565), which prohibited a department, agency, or component of the Department of Defense from obligating funds for a data server farm or data center from Dec. 31, 2011, to May 1, 2012, unless approved by the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense or the Chief Information Officer of a component of the Department to whom the Chief Information Officer had delegated such approval authority, was repealed by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(11)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/11), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 949](/us/stat/139/949).

#### Demonstration and Pilot Projects on Cybersecurity

[Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title II, § 215](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tII/s215), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4165](/us/stat/124/4165), which directed the Secretary of Defense and Secretaries of the military departments to jointly carry out demonstration projects on processes for application of commercial technologies to cybersecurity requirements and for the Secretary of Defense to support or conduct pilot programs on cybersecurity, was repealed [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(12)(A)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/12/A), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 949](/us/stat/139/949).

#### Implementation of New Acquisition Process for Information Technology Systems

[Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tVIII/s804), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2402](/us/stat/123/2402), which provided for development and implementation of a new acquisition process for information technology systems, was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 812(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s812/b/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1848](/us/stat/132/1848), and [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/13/A), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 949](/us/stat/139/949).

#### Clearinghouse for Rapid Identification and Dissemination of Commercial Information Technologies

[Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VIII, § 881](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tVIII/s881), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 262](/us/stat/122/262), which directed the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration, not later than 180 days after Jan. 28, 2008, to establish a clearinghouse for rapidly identifying, assessing, and disseminating knowledge about readily available information technologies, was repealed by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(15)(D)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/15/D), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 949](/us/stat/139/949).

#### Improvement of Software Acquisition Processes

[Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/107/314/dA/tVIII/s804), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2604](/us/stat/116/2604), which directed the Secretary of each military department to establish a program to improve the software acquisition processes of that military department, was repealed by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(19)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/19/B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 949](/us/stat/139/949).
