---
title: "§ 8151. Statement of congressional purpose"
identifier: "USC-T38-S8151"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section8151"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 89–785, title II, § 203](/us/pl/89/785/tII/s203), Nov. 7, 1966, [80 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/80/1373), § 5051; amended [Pub. L. 101–366, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/101/366/tII/s202/a), Aug. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 438](/us/stat/104/438); renumbered § 8151, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), (b)(1), (2)(E), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/40"
---
# § 8151. Statement of congressional purpose

##### § 8151. Statement of congressional purpose

It is the purpose of this subchapter to strengthen the medical programs at Department facilities and improve the quality of health care provided veterans under this title by authorizing the Secretary to enter into agreements with health-care providers in order to share health-care resources with, and receive health-care resources from, such providers while ensuring no diminution of services to veterans.

*(Added [Pub. L. 89–785, title II, § 203](/us/pl/89/785/tII/s203), Nov. 7, 1966, [80 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/80/1373), § 5051; amended [Pub. L. 101–366, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/101/366/tII/s202/a), Aug. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 438](/us/stat/104/438); renumbered § 8151, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), (b)(1), (2)(E), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/404), 405; [Pub. L. 103–210, § 3(a)](/us/pl/103/210/s3/a), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2497](/us/stat/107/2497); [Pub. L. 104–262, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/104/262/tIII/s301/a), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3191](/us/stat/110/3191).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–262](/us/pl/104/262) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “It is the purpose of this subchapter to improve the quality of hospital care and other medical service provided veterans under this title, by authorizing the Secretary to enter into agreements with medical schools, health-care facilities, and research centers throughout the country in order to receive from and share with such medical schools, health-care facilities, and research centers the most advanced medical techniques and information, as well as certain specialized medical resources which otherwise might not be feasibly available or to effectively utilize other medical resources with the surrounding medical community, without diminution of services to veterans. Among other things, it is intended, by these means, to strengthen the medical programs at those Department hospitals which are located in small cities or rural areas and thus are remote from major medical centers. It is further the purpose of this subchapter to improve the provision of care to veterans under this title by authorizing the Secretary to enter into agreements with State veterans facilities for the sharing of health-care resources.”

1993—[Pub. L. 103–210](/us/pl/103/210) inserted at end “It is further the purpose of this subchapter to improve the provision of care to veterans under this title by authorizing the Secretary to enter into agreements with State veterans facilities for the sharing of health-care resources.”

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 5051 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5051) as this section.

[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” and “Department” for “Veterans’ Administration”.

1990—[Pub. L. 101–366](/us/pl/101/366) substituted “health-care facilities,” for “hospitals,” in two places.
