---
title: "§ 215. Labeling requirement"
identifier: "USC-T27-S215"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title27-section215"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "27"
source_credit: "([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title II, § 204, as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(3)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/3), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4519](/us/stat/102/4519).)"
---
# § 215. Labeling requirement

##### § 215. Labeling requirement

(a) Statement required on container On and after the expiration of the 12-month period following November 18, 1988, it shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, import, or bottle for sale or distribution in the United States any alcoholic beverage unless the container of such beverage bears the following statement: **“GOVERNMENT WARNING:** (1) According to the Surgeon General, women should not drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy because of the risk of birth defects. (2) Consumption of alcoholic beverages impairs your ability to drive a car or operate machinery, and may cause health problems.”.

(b) Conspicuous and prominent location of statement on container The statement required by subsection (a) of this section shall be located in a conspicuous and prominent place on the container of such beverage, as determined by the Secretary, shall be in type of a size determined by the Secretary, and shall appear on a contrasting background. The Secretary shall make such determinations within 90 days after November 18, 1988.

(c) Alcoholic beverages intended for export; beverages intended for Armed Forces of the United States Subsection (a) of this section shall not apply with respect to alcoholic beverages that are manufactured, imported, bottled, or labeled for export from the United States, or for delivery to a vessel or aircraft, as supplies, for consumption beyond the jurisdiction of the internal revenue laws of the United States: *Provided*, That this exemption shall not apply with respect to alcoholic beverages that are manufactured, imported, bottled, or labeled for sale, distribution, or shipment to members or units of the Armed Forces of the United States, including those located outside the United States.

(d) Powers of Secretary; rules and regulations; consultation and coordination with Surgeon General The Secretary shall—

(1) have the power to—

(A) ensure the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter, and

(B) issue regulations to carry out this subchapter, and

(2) consult and coordinate the health awareness efforts of the labeling requirements of this subchapter with the Surgeon General of the United States.

*([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title II, § 204, as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(3)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/3), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4519](/us/stat/102/4519).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The internal revenue laws of the United States, referred to in subsec. (c), are classified generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.
