---
title: "§ 1642. Purchasing health care coverage"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1642"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1642"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/94/437/tIV/s402), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1409](/us/stat/90/1409); [Pub. L. 100–713, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/100/713/tIV/s401/a), (b), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4818](/us/stat/102/4818); [Pub. L. 102–573, title IV, § 401(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/573/tIV/s401/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4565](/us/stat/106/4565); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1642. Purchasing health care coverage

##### § 1642. Purchasing health care coverage

(a) In general Insofar as amounts are made available under law (including a provision of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 301](/us/usc/t42/s301) et seq.], the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.),11 See References in Text note below. or other law, other than under [section 1644 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1644)) to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations for health benefits for Service beneficiaries, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations may use such amounts to purchase health benefits coverage (including coverage for a service, or service within a contract health service delivery area, or any portion of a contract health service delivery area that would otherwise be provided as a contract health service) for such beneficiaries in any manner, including through—

(1) a tribally owned and operated health care plan;

(2) a State or locally authorized or licensed health care plan;

(3) a health insurance provider or managed care organization;

(4) a self-insured plan; or

(5) a high deductible or health savings account plan.

(b) Financial need The purchase of coverage under subsection (a) by an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or urban Indian organization may be based on the financial needs of such beneficiaries (as determined by the 1 or more Indian tribes being served based on a schedule of income levels developed or implemented by such 1 ore 22 So in original. Probably should be “or”. more Indian tribes).

(c) Expenses for self-insured plan In the case of a self-insured plan under subsection (a)(4), the amounts may be used for expenses of operating the plan, including administration and insurance to limit the financial risks to the entity offering the plan.

(d) Construction Nothing in this section shall be construed as affecting the use of any amounts not referred to in subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/94/437/tIV/s402), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1409](/us/stat/90/1409); [Pub. L. 100–713, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/100/713/tIV/s401/a), (b), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4818](/us/stat/102/4818); [Pub. L. 102–573, title IV, § 401(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/573/tIV/s401/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4565](/us/stat/106/4565); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620), which is classified generally to chapter 7 (§ 301 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.), referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which was classified principally to subchapter II (§ 450 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on section 152 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

Prior to general amendment by [Pub. L. 102–573](/us/pl/102/573), [section 402 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s402), in subsec. (a) enacted [section 1396j of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1396j), The Public Health and Welfare, in subsecs. (b) to (d) enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 1396j of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1396j) (of which subsecs. (c) and (d) were restated in this section), and in subsec. (e) amended [section 1396d of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1396d).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to treatment of payments under medicaid program.

1992—[Pub. L. 102–573](/us/pl/102/573) amended section generally, substituting subsecs. (a) and (b) for former subsecs. (a) to (e). See Codification note above.

1988—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–713, § 401(b)](/us/pl/100/713/s401/b), struck out subsec. (b) which authorized Secretary of Health and Human Services to enter into agreements to reimburse State agencies for health care and services provided in Indian Health Service facilities to Indians eligible for medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 100–713, § 401(a)](/us/pl/100/713/s401/a), substituted “skilled nursing facility, or any other type of facility which provides services of a type otherwise covered under a State plan for medical assistance approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act” for “or skilled nursing facility”, “such a State plan” for “a State plan approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act”, and “In making payments from such fund, the Secretary shall ensure that each service unit of the Indian Health Service receives at least 50 percent of the amounts to which the facilities of the Indian Health Service, for which such service unit makes collections, are entitled by reason of section 1911 of the Social Security Act, if such amount is necessary for the purpose of making improvements in such facilities in order to achieve compliance with the conditions and requirements of title XIX of the Social Security Act. This subsection shall” for “The preceding sentence shall”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

[Pub. L. 102–573, title IV, § 401(b)(2)](/us/pl/102/573/tIV/s401/b/2), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4565](/us/stat/106/4565), provided that: “The increase (from 50 percent) in the percentage of the payments from the fund to be made to each service unit of the Service specified in the amendment made by paragraph (1) [amending this section] shall take effect beginning with payments made on January 1, 1993.”

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

[Pub. L. 100–713, title IV, § 401(c)](/us/pl/100/713/tIV/s401/c), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4818](/us/stat/102/4818), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply to services performed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 23, 1988].”
