---
title: "§ 1137. Administration"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1137"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1137"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 507](/us/pl/93/406/tI/s507), Sept. 2, 1974, [88 Stat. 894](/us/stat/88/894); [Pub. L. 101–239, title VII, § 7891(a)](/us/pl/101/239/tVII/s7891/a), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2445](/us/stat/103/2445).)"
---
# § 1137. Administration

##### § 1137. Administration

(a) Subchapter II of chapter 5, and chapter 7, of title 5 (relating to administrative procedure), shall be applicable to this subchapter.

(b) Omitted.

(c) No employee of the Department of Labor or the Department of the Treasury shall administer or enforce this subchapter or title 26 with respect to any employee benefit plan under which he is a participant or beneficiary, any employee organization of which he is a member, or any employer organization in which he has an interest. This subsection does not apply to an employee benefit plan which covers only employees of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 507](/us/pl/93/406/tI/s507), Sept. 2, 1974, [88 Stat. 894](/us/stat/88/894); [Pub. L. 101–239, title VII, § 7891(a)](/us/pl/101/239/tVII/s7891/a), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2445](/us/stat/103/2445).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Subsec. (b) of this section amended [section 5108 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5108), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Amendments

1989—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 101–239](/us/pl/101/239) substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”, which for purposes of codification was translated as “title 26” thus requiring no change in text.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1989 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–239](/us/pl/101/239) effective, except as otherwise provided, as if included in the provision of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514), to which such amendment relates, see [section 7891(f) of Pub. L. 101–239](/us/pl/101/239/s7891/f), set out as a note under [section 1002 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1002).

#### Regulations

Secretary authorized, effective Sept. 2, 1974, to promulgate regulations wherever provisions of this subchapter call for the promulgation of regulations, see [section 1031 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1031).
