---
title: "§ 40504. Grants for the assistance of organizations to find missing adults"
identifier: "USC-T34-S40504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section40504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–468, title I, § 101](/us/pl/106/468/tI/s101), formerly § 2, Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2027](/us/stat/114/2027); renumbered title I, § 101, and amended [Pub. L. 115–401, § 2(1)](/us/pl/115/401/s2/1)–(3), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5336](/us/stat/132/5336).)"
---
# § 40504. Grants for the assistance of organizations to find missing adults

##### § 40504. Grants for the assistance of organizations to find missing adults

(a) In general The Attorney General may make grants to public agencies or nonprofit private organizations, or combinations thereof, for programs—

(1) to assist law enforcement and families in locating missing adults;

(2) to maintain a national, interconnected database for the purpose of tracking missing adults who are determined by law enforcement to be endangered due to age, diminished mental capacity, or the circumstances of disappearance, when foul play is suspected or circumstances are unknown;

(3) to maintain statistical information of adults reported as missing;

(4) to provide informational resources and referrals to families of missing adults;

(5) to assist in public notification and victim advocacy related to missing adults; and

(6) to establish and maintain a national clearinghouse for missing adults.

(b) Regulations The Attorney General may make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out this title.11 See References in Text note below.

*([Pub. L. 106–468, title I, § 101](/us/pl/106/468/tI/s101), formerly § 2, Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2027](/us/stat/114/2027); renumbered title I, § 101, and amended [Pub. L. 115–401, § 2(1)](/us/pl/115/401/s2/1)–(3), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5336](/us/stat/132/5336).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in subsec. (b), is title I of [Pub. L. 106–468](/us/pl/106/468), Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2027](/us/stat/114/2027), which enacted this section and provisions set out as a note under this section. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of Kristen’s Act, and not as part of Jennifer’s Law which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 14665 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14665), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–401](/us/pl/115/401) substituted “this title” for “this Act”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Authorization of Funding

[Pub. L. 106–468, title I, § 102](/us/pl/106/468/tI/s102), formerly § 3, Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2028](/us/stat/114/2028), renumbered title I, § 102, and amended by [Pub. L. 115–401, § 2(1)](/us/pl/115/401/s2/1), (2), (4), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5336](/us/stat/132/5336); [Pub. L. 116–277, § 2(b)](/us/pl/116/277/s2/b), Dec. 31, 2020, [134 Stat. 3370](/us/stat/134/3370), provided that: “To the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts, the Attorney General is authorized to use funds appropriated for the operationalization, maintenance, and expansion of the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System (NamUs) for the purpose of carrying out this Act [enacting this section].”
