---
title: "§ 523. Restriction in contracts against disposal of implements of war, vessels, etc., or information"
identifier: "USC-T22-S523"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section523"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([June 15, 1940, ch. 365, § 3](/us/act/1940-06-15/ch365/s3), [54 Stat. 397](/us/stat/54/397); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 523. Restriction in contracts against disposal of implements of war, vessels, etc., or information

##### § 523. Restriction in contracts against disposal of implements of war, vessels, etc., or information

All contracts or agreements made by the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Navy for the sale to the government of any American republic of any of the arms, ammunition, or implements of war, the sale of which is authorized by this subchapter, shall contain a clause by which the purchaser undertakes not to dispose of such arms, ammunition, or implements of war, or any plans, specifications, or information pertaining thereto, by gift, sale, or any mode of transfer in such manner that such arms, ammunition, implements of war, or plans, specifications, or information pertaining thereto, may become a part of the armament of any state other than an American republic.

*([June 15, 1940, ch. 365, § 3](/us/act/1940-06-15/ch365/s3), [54 Stat. 397](/us/stat/54/397); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Secretary of the Air Force

For transfer of certain procurement and related functions and property, insofar as they pertain to Air Force, from Secretary of the Army and Department of the Army to Secretary of the Air Force and Department of the Air Force, see Secretary of Defense Transfer Order Nos. 6 [§ 1(a)(41)], eff. Jan. 15, 1948, 39 [§ 2zz], May 18, 1949.
