---
title: "§ 17331. United States assistance for developing countries"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17331"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17331"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 911](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s911), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/121/1725).)"
---
# § 17331. United States assistance for developing countries

##### § 17331. United States assistance for developing countries

(a) Assistance authorized The Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall support policies and programs in developing countries that promote clean and efficient energy technologies—

(1) to produce the necessary market conditions for the private sector delivery of energy and environmental management services;

(2) to create an environment that is conducive to accepting clean and efficient energy technologies that support the overall purpose of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, including—

(A) improving policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks;

(B) increasing institutional abilities to provide energy and environmental management services; and

(C) increasing public awareness and participation in the decision-making of delivering energy and environmental management services; and

(3) to promote the use of American-made clean and efficient energy technologies, products, and energy and environmental management services.

(b) Report The Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual report on the implementation of this section for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

(c) Authorization of appropriations To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development $200,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 911](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s911), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/121/1725).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
