---
title: "§ 1403. Persons born in the Canal Zone or Republic of Panama on or after February 26, 1904"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1403"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1403"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([June 27, 1952, ch. 477](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477), title III, ch. 1, § 303, [66 Stat. 236](/us/stat/66/236).)"
---
# § 1403. Persons born in the Canal Zone or Republic of Panama on or after February 26, 1904

##### § 1403. Persons born in the Canal Zone or Republic of Panama on or after February 26, 1904

(a) Any person born in the Canal Zone on or after February 26, 1904, and whether before or after the effective date of this chapter, whose father or mother or both at the time of the birth of such person was or is a citizen of the United States, is declared to be a citizen of the United States.

(b) Any person born in the Republic of Panama on or after February 26, 1904, and whether before or after the effective date of this chapter, whose father or mother or both at the time of the birth of such person was or is a citizen of the United States employed by the Government of the United States or by the Panama Railroad Company, or its successor in title, is declared to be a citizen of the United States.

*([June 27, 1952, ch. 477](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477), title III, ch. 1, § 303, [66 Stat. 236](/us/stat/66/236).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For definition of Canal Zone, referred to in text, see [section 3602(b) of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3602/b), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

The effective date of this chapter, referred to in text, is the 180th day immediately following June 27, 1952. See section 407 of act June 27, 1952, set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Panama Railroad Company redesignated Panama Canal Company by [act Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, § 2(a)(2)](/us/act/1950-09-26/ch1049/s2/a/2), [64 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/64/1038). References to Panama Canal Company in laws of the United States are deemed to refer to Panama Canal Commission pursuant to [section 3602(b)(5) of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3602/b/5), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
