---
title: "§ 80q–11. Inventory, identification, and return of Native Hawaiian human remains and Native Hawaiian funerary objects in possession of Smithsonian Institution"
identifier: "USC-T20-S80q–11"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section80q–11"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–185, § 13](/us/pl/101/185/s13), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1345](/us/stat/103/1345).)"
---
# § 80q–11. Inventory, identification, and return of Native Hawaiian human remains and Native Hawaiian funerary objects in possession of Smithsonian Institution

##### § 80q–11. Inventory, identification, and return of Native Hawaiian human remains and Native Hawaiian funerary objects in possession of Smithsonian Institution

(a) In general The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution shall—

(1) in conjunction with the inventory and identification under [section 80q–9 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s80q–9), inventory and identify the Native Hawaiian human remains and Native Hawaiian funerary objects in the possession of the Smithsonian Institution;

(2) enter into an agreement with appropriate Native Hawaiian organizations with expertise in Native Hawaiian affairs (which may include the Office of Hawaiian Affairs and the Malama I Na Kupuna O Hawai’i Nei) to provide for the return of such human remains nd 11 So in original. Probably should be “and”. funerary objects; and

(3) to the greatest extent practicable, apply, with respect to such human remains and funerary objects, the principles and procedures set forth in sections 80q–9 and 80q–10 of this title with respect to the Indian human remains and Indian funerary objects in the possession of the Smithsonian Institution.

(b) Definitions As used in this section—

(1) the term “Malama I Na Kupuna O Hawai’i Nei” means the nonprofit, Native Hawaiian organization, incorporated under the laws of the State of Hawaii by that name on April 17, 1989, the purpose of which is to provide guidance and expertise in decisions dealing with Native Hawaiian cultural issues, particularly burial issues; and

(2) the term “Office of Hawaiian Affairs” means the Office of Hawaiian Affairs established by the Constitution of the State of Hawaii.

*([Pub. L. 101–185, § 13](/us/pl/101/185/s13), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1345](/us/stat/103/1345).)*
