---
title: "§ 9269b. Waivers, exemptions, and termination"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9269b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9269b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7143](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7143), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2255](/us/stat/133/2255).)"
---
# § 9269b. Waivers, exemptions, and termination

##### § 9269b. Waivers, exemptions, and termination

(a) Omitted

(b) Suspension

(1) In general Subject to [section 9265 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9265), the President may suspend the application of any provision of or amendment made by this subtitle 11 See References in Text note below. (other than [section 9269d of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9269d) or [section 9221b(e) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9221b/e), as added by section 7121 1 of this title) with respect to an entity, individual, or transaction, for renewable periods of not more than 180 days each if, before such a suspension or renewal of such a suspension takes effect, the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees—

(A) a certification that—

(i) the Government of North Korea has—

(I) committed to the verifiable suspension of North Korea’s proliferation and testing of weapons of mass destruction, including systems designed in whole or in part for the delivery of such weapons; and

(II) has agreed to multilateral talks including the Government of the United States, with the goal of permanently and verifiably limiting North Korea’s weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile programs; or

(ii) the suspension is vital to the national security interests of the United States; and

(B) if the President submits a certification under subparagraph (A)(ii), an explanation of the reasons the suspension is vital to the national security interests of the United States.

(2) Omitted

(c) Termination Subject to [section 9265 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9265), any requirement to impose sanctions under this subtitle ^1 or the amendments made by this subtitle, and any sanctions imposed pursuant to this subtitle ^1 or any such amendment, shall terminate on the date on which the President makes the certification described in [section 9252 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9252).

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7143](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7143), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2255](/us/stat/133/2255).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1) and (c), is subtitle A of title LXXI of div. F of [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2244](/us/stat/133/2244), which enacted this subchapter and sections 262p–13, 286yy, 9221b, and 9221c of this title, amended sections 9202, 9212, 9214, 9223, 9224, 9228, 9241, and 9251 of this title, repealed sections 262p–13 and 286yy of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 262p–13 and 286yy of this title. For complete classification of this subtitle to the Code, see Tables.

[Section 7121 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7121), referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is [section 7121 of title LXXI of div. F of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7121), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2244](/us/stat/133/2244), which enacted [section 9221b of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9221b).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and Enforcement Act of 2019, and also as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, and not as part of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 which comprises this chapter.

Section is comprised of [section 7143 of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/s7143). Subsec. (a) of [section 7143 of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/s7143) amended [section 9228 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9228). Subsec. (b)(2) of [section 7143 of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/s7143) amended [section 9251 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9251).
