---
title: "§ 12132. Ounce of prevention grant program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12132"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12132"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 30102](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s30102), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1837](/us/stat/108/1837).)"
---
# § 12132. Ounce of prevention grant program

##### § 12132. Ounce of prevention grant program

(a) In general The Council may make grants for—

(1) summer and after-school (including weekend and holiday) education and recreation programs;

(2) mentoring, tutoring, and other programs involving participation by adult role models (such as D.A.R.E. America);

(3) programs assisting and promoting employability and job placement; and

(4) prevention and treatment programs to reduce substance abuse, child abuse, and adolescent pregnancy, including outreach programs for at-risk families.

(b) Applicants Applicants may be Indian tribal governments, cities, counties, or other municipalities, school boards, colleges and universities, private nonprofit entities, or consortia of eligible applicants. Applicants must show that a planning process has occurred that has involved organizations, institutions, and residents of target areas, including young people, and that there has been cooperation between neighborhood-based entities, municipality-wide bodies, and local private-sector representatives. Applicants must demonstrate the substantial involvement of neighborhood-based entities in the carrying out of the proposed activities. Proposals must demonstrate that a broad base of collaboration and coordination will occur in the implementation of the proposed activities, involving cooperation among youth-serving organizations, schools, health and social service providers, employers, law enforcement professionals, local government, and residents of target areas, including young people. Applications shall be geographically based in particular neighborhoods or sections of municipalities or particular segments of rural areas, and applications shall demonstrate how programs will serve substantial proportions of children and youth resident in the target area with activities designed to have substantial impact on their lives.

(c) Priority In making such grants, the Council shall give preference to coalitions consisting of a broad spectrum of community-based and social service organizations that have a coordinated team approach to reducing gang membership and the effects of substance abuse, and providing alternatives to at-risk youth.

(d) Federal share

(1) In general The Federal share of a grant made under this part 11 See References in Text note below. may not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of the projects described in the applications submitted under subsection (b) for the fiscal year for which the projects receive assistance under this subchapter.

(2) Waiver The Council may waive the 25 percent matching requirement under paragraph (1) upon making a determination that a waiver is equitable in view of the financial circumstances affecting the ability of the applicant to meet that requirement.

(3) Non-Federal share The non-Federal share of such costs may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, and services.

(4) Nonsupplanting requirement Funds made available under this subchapter to a governmental entity shall not be used to supplant State or local funds, or in the case of Indian tribal governments, funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, but shall be used to increase the amount of funds that would, in the absence of Federal funds received under this subchapter, be made available from State or local sources, or in the case of Indian tribal governments, from funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

(5) Evaluation The Council shall conduct a thorough evaluation of the programs assisted under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 30102](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s30102), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1837](/us/stat/108/1837).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), appearing in the original, is unidentifiable because subtitle A of title III of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) does not contain parts.

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), (4), (5), was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/108/1836). For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13742 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13742), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
