---
title: "§ 1683g. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1683g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1683g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VIII, § 809, as added [Pub. L. 110–246, title III, § 3301(a)](/us/pl/110/246/tIII/s3301/a), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1852](/us/stat/122/1852).)"
---
# § 1683g. Reports

##### § 1683g. Reports

(a) Semiannual reports Not later than 180 days after the effective date of this subtitle, and every 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report—

(1) describing the reconciliations conducted under [section 1683d of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683d),11 So in original. Comma probably should not appear. and the verifications conducted under [section 1683e of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683e);

(2) identifying the manner in which the United States importers subject to reconciliations conducted under [section 1683d of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683d) and verifications conducted under [section 1683e of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683e) were chosen;

(3) identifying any penalties imposed under [section 1683f of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683f);

(4) identifying any patterns of noncompliance with this subtitle; and

(5) identifying any problems or obstacles encountered in the implementation and enforcement of this subtitle.

(b) Subsidies reports Not later than 180 days after June 18, 2008, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of Commerce shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a report on any subsidies on softwood lumber or softwood lumber products, including stumpage subsidies, provided by countries of export.

(c) GAO reports The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit the following reports to the appropriate congressional committees:

(1) Not later than 18 months after June 18, 2008, a report on the effectiveness of the reconciliations conducted under [section 1683d of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683d),^1 and verifications conducted under [section 1683e of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683e).

(2) Not later than 12 months after June 18, 2008, a report on whether countries that export softwood lumber or softwood lumber products to the United States are complying with any international agreements entered into by those countries and the United States.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VIII, § 809, as added [Pub. L. 110–246, title III, § 3301(a)](/us/pl/110/246/tIII/s3301/a), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1852](/us/stat/122/1852).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For the effective date of this subtitle, referred to in subsec. (a), see [section 3301(b) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s3301/b), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1683 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 60 days after June 18, 2008, see [section 3301(b) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s3301/b), set out as a note under [section 1683 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1683).
