---
title: "§ 2346. Project administration"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2346"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2346"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–114, title II, § 2041](/us/pl/110/114/tII/s2041), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/121/1100); [Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1136(b)](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1136/b), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1657](/us/stat/130/1657).)"
---
# § 2346. Project administration

##### § 2346. Project administration

(a) Project tracking The Secretary shall assign a unique tracking number to each water resources project under the jurisdiction of the Secretary to be used by each Federal agency throughout the life of the project.

(b) Report repository

(1) In general The Secretary shall provide to the Library of Congress a copy of each final feasibility study, final environmental impact statement, final reevaluation report, final post-authorization change report, record of decision, and report to Congress prepared by the Corps of Engineers.

(2) Availability to public Each document described in paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public, and an electronic copy of each document shall be made permanently available to the public through the Internet.

*([Pub. L. 110–114, title II, § 2041](/us/pl/110/114/tII/s2041), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/121/1100); [Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1136(b)](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1136/b), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1657](/us/stat/130/1657).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 114–322](/us/pl/114/322) inserted “final post-authorization change report,” after “final reevaluation report,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 110–114](/us/pl/110/114/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
