---
title: "§ 405. Use of Department of Defense funds for United States share of costs of United Nations peacekeeping activities: limitation"
identifier: "USC-T10-S405"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section405"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XIII, § 1301(a)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXIII/s1301/a), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 473](/us/stat/110/473).)"
---
# § 405. Use of Department of Defense funds for United States share of costs of United Nations peacekeeping activities: limitation

##### § 405. Use of Department of Defense funds for United States share of costs of United Nations peacekeeping activities: limitation

(a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.— Funds available to the Department of Defense may not be used to make a financial contribution (directly or through another department or agency of the United States) to the United Nations—

(1) for the costs of a United Nations peacekeeping activity; or

(2) for any United States arrearage to the United Nations.

(b) Application of Prohibition.— The prohibition in subsection (a) applies to voluntary contributions, as well as to contributions pursuant to assessment by the United Nations for the United States share of the costs of a peacekeeping activity.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XIII, § 1301(a)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXIII/s1301/a), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 473](/us/stat/110/473).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 405 was renumbered [section 401(e) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s401/e).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Use of Department of Defense Funds for United Nations Forces

[Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title XII, § 1231(b)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tXII/s1231/b), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2155](/us/stat/112/2155), provided that: “No funds available to the Department of Defense may be used— “(1) for a monetary contribution to the United Nations for the establishment of a standing international force under the United Nations; or “(2) to assign or detail any member of the Armed Forces to duty with a United Nations Stand By Force.”
