---
title: "§ 6503. National organic production program"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–624, title XXI, § 2104](/us/pl/101/624/tXXI/s2104), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3937](/us/stat/104/3937).)"
---
# § 6503. National organic production program

##### § 6503. National organic production program

(a) In general The Secretary shall establish an organic certification program for producers and handlers of agricultural products that have been produced using organic methods as provided for in this chapter.

(b) State program In establishing the program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall permit each State to implement a State organic certification program for producers and handlers of agricultural products that have been produced using organic methods as provided for in this chapter.

(c) Consultation In developing the program under subsection (a), and the National List under [section 6517 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6517), the Secretary shall consult with the National Organic Standards Board established under [section 6518 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6518).

(d) Certification The Secretary shall implement the program established under subsection (a) through certifying agents. Such certifying agents may certify a farm or handling operation that meets the requirements of this chapter and the requirements of the organic certification program of the State (if applicable) as an organically certified farm or handling operation.

*([Pub. L. 101–624, title XXI, § 2104](/us/pl/101/624/tXXI/s2104), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3937](/us/stat/104/3937).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Exclusions From Organic Certification

[Pub. L. 115–334, title X, § 10104(a)](/us/pl/115/334/tX/s10104/a), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4899](/us/stat/132/4899), provided that: “Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 20, 2018], the Secretary [of Agriculture] shall issue regulations to limit the type of organic operations that are excluded from certification under section 205.101 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, and from certification under any other related sections under part 205 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations.”
