---
title: "§ 7735. Enforcement actions of Attorney General"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7735"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7735"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–224, title IV, § 425](/us/pl/106/224/tIV/s425), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 451](/us/stat/114/451).)"
---
# § 7735. Enforcement actions of Attorney General

##### § 7735. Enforcement actions of Attorney General

(1) prosecute, in the name of the United States, all criminal violations of this chapter that are referred to the Attorney General by the Secretary or are brought to the notice of the Attorney General by any person;

(2) bring an action to enjoin the violation of or to compel compliance with this chapter, or to enjoin any interference by any person with the Secretary in carrying out this chapter, whenever the Secretary has reason to believe that the person has violated, or is about to violate this chapter, or has interfered, or is about to interfere, with the Secretary; and

(3) bring an action for the recovery of any unpaid civil penalty, funds under reimbursable agreements, late payment penalty, or interest assessed under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 106–224, title IV, § 425](/us/pl/106/224/tIV/s425), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 451](/us/stat/114/451).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title IV of [Pub. L. 106–224](/us/pl/106/224), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 438](/us/stat/114/438), known as the Plant Protection Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7701) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to agricultural import and entry inspection activities under this chapter to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 231, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
