---
title: "§ 8113. Increase or decrease of basic compensation"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8113"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8113"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 540](/us/stat/80/540); [Pub. L. 90–83, § 1(100)](/us/pl/90/83/s1/100), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 220](/us/stat/81/220); [Pub. L. 93–416, § 8(a)](/us/pl/93/416/s8/a), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1145](/us/stat/88/1145).)"
---
# § 8113. Increase or decrease of basic compensation

##### § 8113. Increase or decrease of basic compensation

(a) If an individual—

the Secretary of Labor, on review under [section 8128 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8128) after the time the wage-earning capacity of the individual would probably have increased but for the injury, shall recompute prospectively the monetary compensation payable for disability on the basis of an assumed monthly pay corresponding to the probable increased wage-earning capacity.

(1) was a minor or employed in a learner’s capacity at the time of injury; and

(2) was not physically or mentally handicapped before the injury;

(b) If an individual without good cause fails to apply for and undergo vocational rehabilitation when so directed under [section 8104 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8104), the Secretary, on review under [section 8128 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8128) and after finding that in the absence of the failure the wage-earning capacity of the individual would probably have substantially increased, may reduce prospectively the monetary compensation of the individual in accordance with what would probably have been his wage-earning capacity in the absence of the failure, until the individual in good faith complies with the direction of the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 540](/us/stat/80/540); [Pub. L. 90–83, § 1(100)](/us/pl/90/83/s1/100), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 220](/us/stat/81/220); [Pub. L. 93–416, § 8(a)](/us/pl/93/416/s8/a), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1145](/us/stat/88/1145).)*

Administration of this subchapter was transferred to the Secretary of Labor by section 1 of 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 19, [64 Stat. 1271](/us/stat/64/1271) (see section 8145).

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1966 Act |  |  |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 756(d). | Oct. 14, 1949, ch. 691, § 105 “Sec. 6(d)”, 63 Stat. 859. |

#### 1967 Act

This section amends [section 8113(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8113/b), United States Code, to conform to the source statute (sec. 6(d)(1) of the Federal Employees’ Compensation Act, as amended ([63 Stat. 859](/us/stat/63/859))).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1974—Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 93–416](/us/pl/93/416) struck out subsec. (b) which authorized the Secretary to prospectively recompute compensation because of decreased wage earning power after age 70, aside from injury, and redesignated subsec. (c) as (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1974 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–416](/us/pl/93/416) applicable to case where injury or death occurred prior to Sept. 7, 1974, but only to a period beginning on or after Sept. 7, 1974, see [section 28(a) of Pub. L. 93–416](/us/pl/93/416/s28/a), set out as a note under [section 8101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8101).

#### Effective Date of 1967 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–83](/us/pl/90/83) effective as of Sept. 6, 1966, for all purposes, see [section 9(h) of Pub. L. 90–83](/us/pl/90/83/s9/h), set out as a note under [section 5102 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5102).
