---
title: "§ 7321. Mandatory retirement: Superintendent of the United States Military Academy; waiver authority"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 532(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s532/a/1/A), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 602](/us/stat/113/602), § 3921; amended [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, § 541(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tV/s541/a/1), (c)(1)(A), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/118/1902), 1903; renumbered § 7321, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(b)(12)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/b/12), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1838](/us/stat/132/1838); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title V, § "
---
# § 7321. Mandatory retirement: Superintendent of the United States Military Academy; waiver authority

##### § 7321. Mandatory retirement: Superintendent of the United States Military Academy; waiver authority

(a) Mandatory Retirement.— Upon the termination of the detail of an officer to the position of Superintendent of the United States Military Academy, the Secretary of the Army shall retire the officer under any provision of this chapter under which that officer is eligible to retire.

(b) Waiver Authority.— The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement in subsection (a) for good cause. In each case in which such a waiver is granted for an officer, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a written notification of the waiver, with a statement of the reasons supporting the decision that the officer not retire, and a written notification of the intent of the President to nominate the officer for reassignment. In the event a waiver under this subsection is granted, the subsequent nomination and appointment of such officer having served as Superintendent of the Academy to a further assignment in lieu of retirement shall be subject to the advice and consent of the Senate.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 532(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s532/a/1/A), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 602](/us/stat/113/602), § 3921; amended [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, § 541(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tV/s541/a/1), (c)(1)(A), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/118/1902), 1903; renumbered § 7321, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(b)(12)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/b/12), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1838](/us/stat/132/1838); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title V, § 509(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tV/s509/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2560](/us/stat/136/2560).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7321 was renumbered [section 8691 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8691).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) inserted at end: “In the event a waiver under this subsection is granted, the subsequent nomination and appointment of such officer having served as Superintendent of the Academy to a further assignment in lieu of retirement shall be subject to the advice and consent of the Senate.”

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 3921 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3921) as this section.

2004—[Pub. L. 108–375](/us/pl/108/375) inserted “; waiver authority” at end of section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Application of Section to Superintendents Serving on October 5, 1999

[Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 532(a)(5)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s532/a/5), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 604](/us/stat/113/604), provided that: “The amendments made by this subsection [enacting this section and sections 4333a, 6371, 6951a, 8921, and 9333a of this title] shall not apply to an officer serving on the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 1999] in the position of Superintendent of the United States Military Academy, Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy, or Superintendent of the United States Air Force Academy for so long as that officer continues on and after that date to serve in that position without a break in service.”
