---
title: "§ 1870. House Historic Buildings Revitalization Trust Fund"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1870"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1870"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–68, div. A, title I, § 1304](/us/pl/111/68/dA/tI/s1304), Oct. 1, 2009, [123 Stat. 2035](/us/stat/123/2035).)"
---
# § 1870. House Historic Buildings Revitalization Trust Fund

##### § 1870. House Historic Buildings Revitalization Trust Fund

(a) Establishment There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States, as an account for the Architect of the Capitol, the House Historic Buildings Revitalization Trust Fund (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Fund”).

(b) Use of amounts Amounts in the Fund shall be used by the Architect of the Capitol for the revitalization of the major historical buildings and assets of the House of Representatives which the Architect is responsible for maintaining and preserving, except that the Architect may not obligate any amounts in the Fund without the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(c) Continuing availability of funds Any amounts transferred to and merged with, or otherwise deposited into, the Fund shall remain available until expended.

(d) Omitted

(e) Effective date This section and the amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2010 and each succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 111–68, div. A, title I, § 1304](/us/pl/111/68/dA/tI/s1304), Oct. 1, 2009, [123 Stat. 2035](/us/stat/123/2035).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 1304 of Pub. L. 111–68](/us/pl/111/68/s1304). Subsec. (d) of [section 1304 of Pub. L. 111–68](/us/pl/111/68/s1304) amended [section 5507 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5507).

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2010, which is div. A of [Pub. L. 111–68](/us/pl/111/68).
