---
title: "§§ 252 to 254. Repealed. [Pub. L. 95–393, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/393/s3/a/1), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 808](/us/stat/92/808)"
identifier: "USC-T22-S252...254"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section252...254"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
---
# §§ 252 to 254. Repealed. [Pub. L. 95–393, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/393/s3/a/1), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 808](/us/stat/92/808)

##### §§ 252 to 254. Repealed. [Pub. L. 95–393, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/393/s3/a/1), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 808](/us/stat/92/808)

Section 252, R.S. § 4063, related to the immunity of any ambassador or public minister of any foreign prince or State, or any domestic or domestic servant of any such minister against arrest, imprisonment, or seizure of his goods or chattels.

Section 253, R.S. § 4064, related to imprisonment for not more than three years of anyone suing out a writ or process in violation of the provisions of former [section 252 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s252), granting diplomatic immunity to certain persons.

Section 254, R.S. §§ 4065, 4066, related to suits against persons in the service of an ambassador or public minister founded upon a debt contracted before entering such service, and registration of the names of persons serving as domestic servants of an ambassador or a public minister with the State Department.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of Repeal

Repeal effective at end of ninety-day period beginning on Sept. 30, 1978, see [section 9 of Pub. L. 95–393](/us/pl/95/393/s9), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 254a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s254a).

#### Insurance Coverage of Diplomatic Missions to United States; Reports to Speaker of House of Representatives and President of Senate

[Pub. L. 95–148, title V, § 510(1)](/us/pl/95/148/tV/s510/1), (2), Oct. 31, 1977, [91 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/91/1240), provided that it was the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of State should prepare and submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to the President of the Senate: (1) not later than six months after Oct. 31, 1977, a report on the adequacy of insurance provided by the accredited diplomatic missions to the United States to cover loss or injury arising from the wrongful acts or omissions of the employees of such missions in the United States; and (2) not later than one year after Oct. 31, 1977, a report on what efforts the President and the Secretary of State had made to encourage the provision of such coverage.
