---
title: "§ 3334t. Program for beyond 5G"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3334t"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3334t"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7508](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7508), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1090](/us/stat/137/1090).)"
---
# § 3334t. Program for beyond 5G

##### § 3334t. Program for beyond 5G

(a) Establishment The Director of National Intelligence, acting through the Director of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity, may initiate or otherwise carry out a program dedicated to research and development efforts relevant to 6G technology and any successor technologies, but only if such efforts are specific to potential applications of 6G technology (or any successor technologies) for the intelligence community or for other national security purposes.

(b) Consultation and coordination In carrying out any program under subsection (a), the Director shall consult and coordinate with—

(1) relevant—

(A) heads of Federal departments and agencies, including the Administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration;

(B) interagency bodies, such as the Committee for the Assessment of Foreign Participation in the United States Telecommunications Sector;

(C) private sector entities;

(D) institutions of higher learning; and

(E) federally funded research and development centers; and

(2) such other individuals and entities as the Director determines appropriate.

(c) 6G technology defined In this section, the term “6G technology” means hardware, software, or other technologies relating to sixth-generation wireless networks.

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7508](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7508), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1090](/us/stat/137/1090).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “intelligence community” as used in this section, see [section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s7002), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
