---
title: "§ 891. Resident Commissioner; election"
identifier: "USC-T48-S891"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section891"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, § 36](/us/act/1917-03-02/ch145/s36), [39 Stat. 963](/us/stat/39/963); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158); [June 5, 1934, ch. 390, § 5](/us/act/1934-06-05/ch390/s5), [48 Stat. 879](/us/stat/48/879).)"
---
# § 891. Resident Commissioner; election

##### § 891. Resident Commissioner; election

The qualified electors of Puerto Rico shall choose a Resident Commissioner to the United States at each general election, whose term of office shall be four years from the 3d of January following such general election, and who shall be entitled to receive official recognition as such commissioner by all of the departments of the Government of the United States, upon presentation, through the Department of State, of a certificate of election of the Governor of Puerto Rico.

*([Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, § 36](/us/act/1917-03-02/ch145/s36), [39 Stat. 963](/us/stat/39/963); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158); [June 5, 1934, ch. 390, § 5](/us/act/1934-06-05/ch390/s5), [48 Stat. 879](/us/stat/48/879).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of second sentence of section 36 of act Mar. 2, 1917. The first sentence of section 36, providing for election of a Resident Commissioner to the United States at the next general election for a term commencing with date of issuance of certificate of election and terminating Mar. 4, 1921, was omitted. Parts of the third and fourth sentences of section 36 are classified to [section 893 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s893). The other part of the third sentence of section 36, which fixed the salary of the commissioner at $7,500 per annum, was superseded by [act Feb. 26, 1907, ch. 1635, § 4](/us/act/1907-02-26/ch1635/s4), [34 Stat. 993](/us/stat/34/993), as amended by [act Mar. 4, 1925, ch. 549, § 4](/us/act/1925-03-04/ch549/s4), [43 Stat. 1301](/us/stat/43/1301). See Prior Provisions note under [section 31 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s31), The Congress. The other part of the fourth sentence of section 36, which allowed the commissioner $500 as mileage, was classified to former [section 46 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s46) and was omitted from the Code as superseded by former [section 43b–1 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s43b–1). The fifth and sixth sentences of section 36 are classified to [section 892 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s892).

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, § 39](/us/act/1900-04-12/ch191/s39), [31 Stat. 86](/us/stat/31/86).

The salary allowed by section 39 of act Apr. 12, 1900, was increased by [act Feb. 26, 1907, ch. 1635, § 4](/us/act/1907-02-26/ch1635/s4), [34 Stat. 993](/us/stat/34/993).

The resident commissioner was allowed traveling expenses in addition to his salary, and the commencement of his term was fixed by [act July 1, 1902, ch. 1383, § 3](/us/act/1902-07-01/ch1383/s3), [32 Stat. 732](/us/stat/32/732).

The manner of paying the salary and traveling expenses of the resident commissioner was fixed by a provision of [act June 22, 1906, ch. 3514, § 1](/us/act/1906-06-22/ch3514/s1), [34 Stat. 417](/us/stat/34/417).

#### Amendments

1934—Act June 5, 1934, changed commencement of term of office from Mar. 4 to Jan. 3 following the general election.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Puerto Rico” substituted in text for “Porto Rico” pursuant to act May 17, 1932, which is classified to [section 731a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s731a).
