---
title: "§ 309101. Sites and structures that commemorate former Presidents"
identifier: "USC-T54-S309101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section309101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3246](/us/stat/128/3246).)"
---
# § 309101. Sites and structures that commemorate former Presidents

##### § 309101. Sites and structures that commemorate former Presidents

(a) Survey.— The Secretary may conduct a survey of sites that the Secretary considers exhibit qualities most appropriate for the commemoration of each former President. The survey may—

(1) include sites associated with the deeds, leadership, or lifework of a former President; and

(2) identify sites or structures historically unrelated to a former President but that may be suitable as a memorial to honor that President.

(b) Reports.— The Secretary shall, from time to time, prepare and transmit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate reports on individual sites and structures identified in a survey under subsection (a), together with the Secretary’s recommendation as to whether the site or structure is suitable for establishment as a national historic site or national memorial to commemorate a former President. Each report shall include pertinent information with respect to the need for acquisition of land and interests in land, the development of facilities, and the operation and maintenance of the site or structure and the estimated cost of the operation and maintenance.

(c) Establishment as National Historic Site.— If during the 6-month period following the transmittal of a report pursuant to subsection (b) neither Committee has by vote of a majority of its members disapproved a recommendation of the Secretary that a site or structure is suitable for establishment as a national historic site, the Secretary may by appropriate order establish the site or structure as a national historic site, including the land and interests in land identified in the report accompanying the recommendation of the Secretary.

(d) Acquistion11 So in original. Probably should be “Acquisition”.of Land and Interests in Land.— The Secretary may acquire the land and interests in land by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, transfer from any other Federal agency, or exchange.

(e) Effect of Section.— Nothing in this section shall be construed as diminishing the authority of the Secretary under chapter 3201 of this title or as authorizing the Secretary to establish any national memorial, creation of which is expressly reserved to Congress.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3246](/us/stat/128/3246).)*

In subsection (d), the words “and he shall administer the site in accordance with sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, as amended and supplemented, and sections 461 to 467 of this title, as amended” are omitted as unnecessary because a site established under this section is a System unit that the Secretary administers under [16 U.S.C. 1](/us/usc/t16/s1), 2, 3, 4, and 461 to 467, restated as section 100101(a), chapter 1003, sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101, and chapter 3201 of the new title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 309101 | 16 U.S.C. 467b(a) through (c). | Pub. L. 96–199, title I, § 120(a) through (c), Mar. 5, 1980, 94 Stat. 73; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(26), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4584. |
