---
title: "§ 3501. Congressional statement of policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–53, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/96/53/tIV/s401), Aug. 14, 1979, [93 Stat. 371](/us/stat/93/371).)"
---
# § 3501. Congressional statement of policy

##### § 3501. Congressional statement of policy

As declared by Congress in the Foreign Assistant 11 So in original. Probably should be “Assistance”. Act of 1961 [[22 U.S.C. 2151](/us/usc/t22/s2151) et seq.], a principal objective of the foreign policy of the United States is the encouragement and sustained support of the people of developing countries in their efforts to acquire the knowledge and resources essential to development and to build the economic, political, and social institutions which will improve the quality of their lives. The Congress reaffirms the profound humanitarian and foreign policy concerns of the United States in the economic and social progress of the developing countries and in the alleviation of the worst physical manifestations of poverty in these countries.

In furtherance of that objective, the Congress recognizes that developing countries require extensive scientific and technological capacity in order to deal effectively with their development problems, relate to the industrialized nations, and constructively participate in the shaping of a stable world order.

It is therefore in the mutual interest of the United States and the developing countries to increase scientific and technological cooperation and jointly to support long-term research on critical problems that impede development and limit the efficient use of the world’s human, natural, and capital resources.

*([Pub. L. 96–53, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/96/53/tIV/s401), Aug. 14, 1979, [93 Stat. 371](/us/stat/93/371).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424), which is classified principally to chapter 32 (§ 2151 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 512(a) of Pub. L. 96–53](/us/pl/96/53/s512/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1979 Amendment note under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151).
