---
title: "§ 46311. Unlawful disclosure of information"
identifier: "USC-T49-S46311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section46311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1239](/us/stat/108/1239); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 140(d)(6)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s140/d/6), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 642](/us/stat/115/642); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(g)(3)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/g/3), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3644](/us/stat/132/3644).)"
---
# § 46311. Unlawful disclosure of information

##### § 46311. Unlawful disclosure of information

(a) Criminal Penalty.— The Secretary of Transportation, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, or the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to aviation safety duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, or an officer or employee of the Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, or Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 2 years, or both, if the Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, officer, or employee knowingly and willfully discloses information that—

(1) the Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, officer, or employee acquires when inspecting the records of an air carrier; or

(2) is withheld from public disclosure under [section 40115 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s40115).

(b) Nonapplication.— Subsection (a) of this section does not apply if—

(1) the officer or employee is directed by the Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, or Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to disclose information that the Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, or Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration had ordered withheld; or

(2) the Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, officer, or employee is directed by a court of competent jurisdiction to disclose the information.

(c) Withholding Information From Congress.— This section does not authorize the Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, or Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to withhold information from a committee of Congress authorized to have the information.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1239](/us/stat/108/1239); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 140(d)(6)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s140/d/6), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 642](/us/stat/115/642); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(g)(3)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/g/3), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3644](/us/stat/132/3644).)*

In this section, the word “Administrator” in section 902(f) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 ([Public Law 85–726](/us/pl/85/726), [72 Stat. 785](/us/stat/72/785)) is retained on authority of 49:106(g).

In subsection (a), before clause (1), the words “fined under title 18” are substituted for “a fine of not more than $5,000” for consistency with title 18. The words “upon conviction thereof be subject for each offense” are omitted as surplus. The words “any fact or” are omitted as being included in “information”. In clause (1), the words “the Secretary, Administrator, officer, or employee acquires” are substituted for “may come to his knowledge” for clarity and consistency.

In subsection (b)(2), the words “or a judge thereof” are omitted as surplus.

In subsection (c), the word “duly” is omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 46311(a), (b) | 49 App.:1472(f) (words before proviso). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, § 902(f), 72 Stat. 785. |
|  | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 1601(b)(1)(E); added Oct. 4, 1984, Pub. L. 98–443, § 3(e), 98 Stat. 1704. |
|  | 49 App.:1655(c)(1). | Oct. 15, 1966, Pub. L. 89–670, § 6(c)(1), 80 Stat. 938; Jan. 12, 1983, Pub. L. 97–449, § 7(b), 96 Stat. 2444. |
| 46311(c) | 49 App.:1472(f) (proviso). |  |
|  | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). |  |
|  | 49 App.:1655(c)(1). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(g)(3)(C)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/g/3/C), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(g)(3)(A)(i)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/g/3/A/i), in introductory provisions, substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, or the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to aviation safety duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Under Secretary, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to aviation safety duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator”, “Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall” for “Administrator shall”, and “Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration,” for “Administrator,”.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(g)(3)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/g/3/A/ii), substituted “Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration” for “Administrator”.

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(g)(3)(B)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/g/3/B), substituted “Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

2001—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(d)(6)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/d/6), in introductory provisions, inserted “the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Under Secretary,” after “Transportation,” and “Under Secretary,” after “Secretary,” and substituted “, Under Secretary, or Administrator” for “or Administrator”.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(d)(6)(B)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/d/6/B) inserted “Under Secretary,” after “Secretary,”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(d)(6)(C)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/d/6/C), substituted “, Under Secretary, or Administrator” for “or Administrator” in two places.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(d)(6)(B)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/d/6/B) inserted “Under Secretary,” after “Secretary,”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(d)(6)(C)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/d/6/C), substituted “, Under Secretary, or Administrator” for “or Administrator”.
