---
title: "§ 8532. Middle distillate monitoring program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8532"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8532"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–102, title II, § 242](/us/pl/96/102/tII/s242), Nov. 5, 1979, [93 Stat. 768](/us/stat/93/768).)"
---
# § 8532. Middle distillate monitoring program

##### § 8532. Middle distillate monitoring program

(a) Monitoring program

(1) Not later than 60 days after November 5, 1979, the Secretary shall establish and maintain a data collection program for monitoring, at the refining, wholesale, and retail levels, the supply and demand levels of middle distillates on a periodic basis in each State.

(2) The program to be established under paragraph (1) shall provide for—

(A) the prompt collection of relevant demand and supply data under the authority available to the Secretary under other law; and

(B) the submission to Congress of periodic reports each containing a concise narrative analysis of the most recent data which the Secretary determines are accurate, and a discussion on a State-by-State basis of trends in such data which the Secretary determines are significant.

(3) All data and information collected under this program shall be available to the Congress and committees of the Congress, and, in accordance with otherwise applicable law, to appropriate State and Federal agencies and the public.

(4) Nothing in this subsection authorizes the direct or indirect regulation of the price of any middle distillate.

(5) For purposes of this section, the term “middle distillate” has the same meaning as given that term in section 211.51 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on November 5, 1979.

(b) Report Before December 31, 1979, the President shall submit a report to Congress in which the President shall examine the middle distillate situation, summarizing the data, information, and analyses described in subsection (a) and discussing in detail matters required to be addressed in findings made pursuant to section 760a(d)(1) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 15.

*([Pub. L. 96–102, title II, § 242](/us/pl/96/102/tII/s242), Nov. 5, 1979, [93 Stat. 768](/us/stat/93/768).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 760a of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s760a), referred to in subsec. (b), was omitted from the Code pursuant to [section 760g of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s760g), Commerce and Trade, which provided for the expiration of the President’s authority under that section on Sept. 30, 1981.
