---
title: "§ 464. Detention by collectors of customs"
identifier: "USC-T22-S464"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section464"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1909, ch. 321, § 17](/us/act/1909-03-04/ch321/s17), [35 Stat. 1091](/us/stat/35/1091).)"
---
# § 464. Detention by collectors of customs

##### § 464. Detention by collectors of customs

The several collectors of the customs shall detain any vessel manifestly built for warlike purposes, and about to depart the United States, or any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof, the cargo of which principally consists of arms and munitions of war, when the number of men shipped on board, or other circumstances, render it probable that such vessel is intended to be employed by the owners to cruise or commit hostilities upon the subjects, citizens, or property of any foreign prince or state, or of any colony, district, or people with whom the United States are at peace, until the decision of the President is had thereon, or until the owner gives such bond and security as is required of the owners of armed vessels by [section 463 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s463).

*([Mar. 4, 1909, ch. 321, § 17](/us/act/1909-03-04/ch321/s17), [35 Stat. 1091](/us/stat/35/1091).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 29 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s29) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, by [act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 1](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645/s1), [62 Stat. 683](/us/stat/62/683).

#### Prior Provisions

Section was derived from R.S. § 5290 ([act Apr. 20, 1818, ch. 88, § 11](/us/act/1818-04-20/ch88/s11), [3 Stat. 450](/us/stat/3/450)), which was repealed by [act Mar. 4, 1909, ch. 321, § 341](/us/act/1909-03-04/ch321/s341), [35 Stat. 1153](/us/stat/35/1153).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Offices of collector of customs, comptroller of customs, surveyor of customs, and appraiser of merchandise of Bureau of Customs of Department of the Treasury to which appointments were required to be made by President with advice and consent of Senate ordered abolished, with such offices to be terminated not later than Dec. 31, 1966, by Reorg. Plan No. 1, of 1965 eff. May 25, 1965, 30 F.R. 7035, [79 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/79/1317), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Functions of Offices eliminated were already vested in Secretary of the Treasury by Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, [64 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/64/1280), set out in the Appendix to Title 5.
