---
title: "§ 868. Fees part of United States revenues"
identifier: "USC-T48-S868"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section868"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, § 45](/us/act/1917-03-02/ch145/s45), [39 Stat. 966](/us/stat/39/966); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158).)"
---
# § 868. Fees part of United States revenues

##### § 868. Fees part of United States revenues

All fees, fines, costs, and forfeitures as would be deposited to the credit of the United States if collected and paid into a district court of the United States shall become revenues of the United States when collected and paid into the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. The sum of $500 a year from such fees, fines, costs, and forfeitures shall be retained by the clerk and expended for law library purposes under the direction of the judge.

*([Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, § 45](/us/act/1917-03-02/ch145/s45), [39 Stat. 966](/us/stat/39/966); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

“United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico” substituted in text for “District Court of the United States for Puerto Rico” in view of [section 132(a) of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s132/a), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, which states that “There shall be in each judicial district a district court which shall be a court of record known as the United States District Court for the district” and [section 119 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s119), which states that “Puerto Rico constitutes one judicial district”.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Mar. 2, 1901, ch. 812, § 2](/us/act/1901-03-02/ch812/s2), [31 Stat. 953](/us/stat/31/953).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Puerto Rico” substituted in text for “Porto Rico” pursuant to act May 17, 1932, which is classified to [section 731a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s731a).
