---
title: "§ 20170. Pre-revenue service safety validation plan"
identifier: "USC-T49-S20170"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section20170"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title II, § 22416(a)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tII/s22416/a), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 747](/us/stat/135/747).)"
---
# § 20170. Pre-revenue service safety validation plan

##### § 20170. Pre-revenue service safety validation plan

(a) Plan Submission.— Any railroad providing new, regularly scheduled, intercity or commuter rail passenger transportation, an extension of existing service, or a renewal of service that has been discontinued for more than 180 days shall develop and submit for review a comprehensive pre-revenue service safety validation plan to the Secretary of Transportation not later than 60 days before initiating such revenue service. Such plan shall include pertinent safety milestones and a minimum period of simulated revenue service to ensure operational readiness and that all safety sensitive personnel are properly trained and qualified.

(b) Compliance.— After submitting a plan pursuant to subsection (a), the railroad shall adopt and comply with such plan and may not amend the plan without first notifying the Secretary of the proposed amendment. Revenue service may not begin until the railroad has completed the requirements of its plan, including the minimum simulated service period required by the plan.

(c) Rulemaking.— The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to carry out this section, including—

(1) requiring that any identified safety deficiencies be addressed and corrected before the initiation of revenue service; and

(2) establishing appropriate deadlines to enable the Secretary to review and approve the pre-revenue service safety validation plan to ensure that service is not unduly delayed.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title II, § 22416(a)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tII/s22416/a), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 747](/us/stat/135/747).)*
