---
title: "§ 30503. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T36-S30503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section30503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/112/1320).)"
---
# § 30503. Purposes

##### § 30503. Purposes

(1) perpetuating the Blue Star Mothers of America, Inc., and the memory of all the men and women who have served our country as members of the Armed Forces;

(2) maintaining true allegiance to the Government of the United States;

(3) educating members of the corporation and others not to divulge military, naval, or other Government information;

(4) assisting in veterans’ ceremonies;

(5) attending patriotic rallies and meetings;

(6) fostering true democracy;

(7) caring for unsupported mothers who gave their sons to the service of the Nation;

(8) aiding in bringing about recognition of the need for permanent civilian defense in each community and the need to be always alert against invasion of un-American activities;

(9) upholding the American institutions of freedom, justice, and equal rights; and

(10) defending the United States from all enemies.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/112/1320).)*

Before clause (1), the words “The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, educational, social, and for service, and include” are substituted for “The purposes of the corporation shall be” and “the further object of this organization shall be patriotic, educational, social, and for service” for clarity.

In clause (3), the words “members of the corporation” are substituted for “our members” for clarity.

In clause (8), the words “the need for” are substituted for “the need of”, and the words “in each community” are substituted for “for each community”, for clarity. The words “the need” are added for clarity. The words “to be always alert” are substituted for “to ever be alert” for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30503 | 36:943. | July 14, 1960, Pub. L. 86–653, § 3, 74 Stat. 515. |
