---
title: "§ 8604. Reports required"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–150, § 6](/us/pl/112/150/s6), July 27, 2012, [126 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/126/1148).)"
---
# § 8604. Reports required

##### § 8604. Reports required

(a) Report on Israel’s qualitative military edge (QME)

(1) In general Not later than 180 days after July 27, 2012, the President shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the status of Israel’s qualitative military edge in light of current trends and instability in the region.

(2) Substitution for quadrennial report If submitted within one year of the date that the first quadrennial report required by section 201(c)(2) of the Naval Vessel Transfer Act of 2008 ([Public Law 110–429](/us/pl/110/429); [22 U.S.C. 2776](/us/usc/t22/s2776) note) is due to be submitted, the report required by paragraph (1) may substitute for such quadrennial report.

(b) Reports on other matters Not later than 180 days after July 27, 2012, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on each of the following matters:

(1) Taking into account the Government of Israel’s urgent requirement for F–35 aircraft, actions to improve the process relating to its purchase of F–35 aircraft, particularly with respect to cost efficiency and timely delivery.

(2) Efforts to expand cooperation between the United States and Israel in homeland security, counter-terrorism, maritime security, energy, cyber-security, and other related areas.

(3) Actions to integrate Israel into the defense of the Eastern Mediterranean.

*([Pub. L. 112–150, § 6](/us/pl/112/150/s6), July 27, 2012, [126 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/126/1148).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Certain Functions Under [Section 6 of Public Law 112–150](/us/pl/112/150/s6)

Memorandum of President of the United States, Jan. 15, 2013, 78 F.R. 5705, provided that:

Memorandum for the Secretary of State

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including [section 301 of title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), United States Code, I hereby delegate to you all functions conferred upon the President by subsections (a) and (b) of [section 6 of Public Law 112–150](/us/pl/112/150/s6). You will exercise these functions in coordination with the Secretary of Defense.

You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
