---
title: "§ 21506. Reciprocal notifications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21506"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21506"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–119, § 7](/us/pl/114/119/s7), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 23](/us/stat/130/23).)"
---
# § 21506. Reciprocal notifications

##### § 21506. Reciprocal notifications

It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, should seek reciprocal international agreements or arrangements to further the purposes of this chapter and the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act ([42 U.S.C. 16901](/us/usc/t42/s16901) et seq.).11 See References in Text note below. Such agreements or arrangements may establish mechanisms and undertakings to receive and transmit notices concerning international travel by sex offenders, through the Angel Watch Center, the INTERPOL notification system, and such other means as may be appropriate, including notification by the United States to other countries relating to the travel of sex offenders from the United States, reciprocal notification by other countries to the United States relating to the travel of sex offenders to the United States, and mechanisms to correct and, as applicable, remove from any other records, any inaccurate information transmitted through such notifications.

*([Pub. L. 114–119, § 7](/us/pl/114/119/s7), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 23](/us/stat/130/23).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–119](/us/pl/114/119), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 15](/us/stat/130/15), known as the International Megan’s Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of Traveling Sex Offenders, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2016 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

The Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act, referred to in text, is title I of [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 590](/us/stat/120/590), which was classified principally to subchapter I (§ 16901 et seq.) of chapter 151 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as subchapter I (§ 20901 et seq.) of chapter 209 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16935e of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16935e), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
