---
title: "§ 2595d. Annual report on comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty sensors"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2595d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2595d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XIII, § 1335](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXIII/s1335), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2011](/us/stat/135/2011).)"
---
# § 2595d. Annual report on comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty sensors

##### § 2595d. Annual report on comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty sensors

(a) Requirement Not later than 90 days after December 27, 2021, and not later than September 1 of each subsequent year, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the sensors used in the international monitoring system of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization. Each such report shall include, with respect to the period covered by the report—

(1) the number of incidents where such sensors are disabled, turned off, or experience “technical difficulties”; and

(2) with respect to each such incident—

(A) the location of the sensor;

(B) the duration of the incident; and

(C) whether the Secretary determines there is reason to believe that the incident was a deliberate act on the part of the host nation.

(b) Appropriate congressional committees defined In this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XIII, § 1335](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXIII/s1335), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2011](/us/stat/135/2011).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022, and not as part of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act which comprises this chapter.
