---
title: "§ 1753. Joint United States-Canada projects for alternative inspections services"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1753"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1753"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–173, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/107/173/tIV/s404), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 560](/us/stat/116/560).)"
---
# § 1753. Joint United States-Canada projects for alternative inspections services

##### § 1753. Joint United States-Canada projects for alternative inspections services

(a) In general United States border inspections agencies, including the Immigration and Naturalization Service, acting jointly and under an agreement of cooperation with the Government of Canada, may conduct joint United States-Canada inspections projects on the international border between the two countries. Each such project may provide alternative inspections services and shall undertake to harmonize the criteria for inspections applied by the two countries in implementing those projects.

(b) Annual report The Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare and submit annually to Congress a report on the joint United States-Canada inspections projects conducted under subsection (a).

(c) Exemption from Administrative Procedure Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5 (commonly referred to as the “Administrative Procedure Act”) and chapter 35 of title 44 (commonly referred to as the “Paperwork Reduction Act”) shall not apply to fee setting for services and other administrative requirements relating to projects described in subsection (a), except that fees and forms established for such projects shall be published as a notice in the Federal Register.

*([Pub. L. 107–173, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/107/173/tIV/s404), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 560](/us/stat/116/560).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1551).
