---
title: "§ 1202. Railroad security-sensitive material tracking"
identifier: "USC-T6-S1202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title6-section1202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "6"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XV, § 1552](/us/pl/110/53/tXV/s1552), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 471](/us/stat/121/471).)"
---
# § 1202. Railroad security-sensitive material tracking

##### § 1202. Railroad security-sensitive material tracking

(a) Communications

(1) In general In conjunction with the research and development program established under [section 1168 of this title](/us/usc/t6/s1168) and consistent with the results of research relating to wireless and other tracking technologies, the Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, shall develop a program that will encourage the equipping of railroad cars transporting security-sensitive materials, as defined in [section 1151 of this title](/us/usc/t6/s1151), with technology that provides—

(A) car position location and tracking capabilities; and

(B) notification of railroad car depressurization, breach, unsafe temperature, or release of hazardous materials, as appropriate.

(2) Coordination In developing the program required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—

(A) consult with the Secretary of Transportation to coordinate the program with any ongoing or planned efforts for railroad car tracking at the Department of Transportation; and

(B) ensure that the program is consistent with recommendations and findings of the Department of Homeland Security’s hazardous material railroad tank car tracking pilot programs.

(b) Funding From the amounts appropriated pursuant to 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “section”. 114(w) 22 See References in Text note below. of title 49, there shall be made available to the Secretary to carry out this section—

(1) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;

(2) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2009; and

(3) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2010.

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XV, § 1552](/us/pl/110/53/tXV/s1552), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 471](/us/stat/121/471).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 114(w) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s114/w), referred to in subsec. (b), was redesignated [section 114(v) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s114/v) by [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, § 1904(b)(1)(I)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/s1904/b/1/I), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3545](/us/stat/132/3545).
