---
title: "§ 8227. Notifications on manning of afloat naval forces"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8227"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8227"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title V, § 592(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tV/s592/d/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2612](/us/stat/136/2612).)"
---
# § 8227. Notifications on manning of afloat naval forces

##### § 8227. Notifications on manning of afloat naval forces

(a) In General.— The Secretary of the Navy shall notify the congressional defense committees, in writing, not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter, of each covered ship (if any) that met either condition as follows:

(1) The manning fit for such ship was less than 87 percent for more than 14 days during such fiscal year quarter.

(2) The manning fill for such ship was less than 90 percent for more than 14 days during such fiscal year quarter.

(b) Elements.— The notification required by subsection (a) shall include, with respect to a covered ship, the following:

(1) The name and hull number of the ship.

(2) The homeport location of the ship.

(3) The current manning fit and fill of the ship.

(4) If the lowest level of manning fit or manning fill for the ship occurred during the fiscal year quarter concerned, the level concerned and the date on which such level occurred.

(5) If the lowest level of manning fit or manning fill for the ship is projected to occur after the fiscal year quarter concerned, the projected level and the date on which such level is projected to occur.

(6) If not achieved as of the date of the notification the projected date on which the Navy will achieve a manning fit and fill at least 87 percent and 90 percent, respectively, for the ship.

(7) If not achieved as of the date of the notification, the projected date on which the Navy will achieve a manning fit and fill of at least 92 percent and 95 percent, respectively, for the ship.

(8) A description of the reasons the Navy has not achieved, or will not achieve, as applicable, manning fit and fill of at least 87 percent and 90 percent, respectively, for the ship, including a detailed description of the specific ratings or skillset areas that must be manned to achieve those percentages.

(9) A description of corrective actions the Navy is taking to improve manning fit or manning fill on the ship.

(c) Special Rule.— For purposes of determining whether a percentage of manning fit or manning fill has been achieved, a sailor in a more senior paygrade may count as filling the billet of a more junior paygrade, but a sailor in a more junior paygrade may not count as filling the billet of a more senior paygrade.

(d) Crewing of a Surface Combatant Vessel: Prohibition; Exception.—

(1) Beginning on October 1, 2025, the Secretary of the Navy may not assign more than one crew to a covered ship that is a surface combatant vessel if any surface combatant vessel was included in a notification under subsection (a) during the 12 months preceding such assignment.

(2) The prohibition under paragraph (1) shall not apply to a littoral combat ship configured to conduct mine countermeasures if the Secretary of the Navy submits to the congressional defense committees a certification and detailed explanation that such ship is unable to meet operational requirements regarding mine countermeasures, determined by the commander of a combatant command concerned, with only one crew.

(e) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “covered ship” means a commissioned battle force ship that is included in the battle force count of the Naval Vessel Register.

(2) The term “manning fill”, in the case of a ship, means the total number of military personnel assigned to the ship by rating when compared with the ship manpower document requirement and billets authorized for the ship by rating.

(3) The term “manning fit”, in the case of a ship, means the skills (rating), specialty skills (Navy Enlisted Classifications), and experience (paygrade) for the ship when compared with the ship manpower document requirement and billets authorized for such skills and experience.

(4) The term “surface combatant vessel” means any littoral combat ship (including the LCS–1 and LCS–2 classes), frigate (including the FFG–62 class), destroyer (excluding the DDG–1000 class), or cruiser (including the CG–47 class).

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title V, § 592(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tV/s592/d/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2612](/us/stat/136/2612).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is based on [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 597(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s597/a)–(e), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1418](/us/stat/133/1418), 1419, as amended by [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title V, § 592(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tV/s592/a/1), (b), (c), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2612](/us/stat/136/2612), which was formerly set out as a note under [section 8013 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8013) before being transferred to this chapter and renumbered as this section by [Pub. L. 117–263, § 592(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/s592/d/1).
