---
title: "§ 4105. Administration"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–373, title I, § 106](/us/pl/98/373/tI/s106), July 31, 1984, [98 Stat. 1245](/us/stat/98/1245); [Pub. L. 101–609, § 5](/us/pl/101/609/s5), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3125](/us/stat/104/3125).)"
---
# § 4105. Administration

##### § 4105. Administration

(1) in accordance with the civil service laws and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, appoint and fix the compensation of an Executive Director and necessary additional staff personnel, but not to exceed a total of seven compensated personnel;

(2) procure temporary and intermittent services as authorized by [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109);

(3) enter into contracts and procure supplies, services, and personal property;

(4) enter into agreements with the General Services Administration for the procurement of necessary financial and administrative services, for which payment shall be made by reimbursement from funds of the Commission in amounts to be agreed upon by the Commission and the Administrator of the General Services Administration; and

(5) appoint, and accept without compensation the services of, scientists and engineering specialists to be advisors to the Commission. Each advisor may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by [section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703). Except for the purposes of chapter 81 of title 5 (relating to compensation for work injuries) and chapter 171 of title 28 (relating to tort claims), an advisor appointed under this paragraph shall not be considered an employee of the United States for any purpose.

*([Pub. L. 98–373, title I, § 106](/us/pl/98/373/tI/s106), July 31, 1984, [98 Stat. 1245](/us/stat/98/1245); [Pub. L. 101–609, § 5](/us/pl/101/609/s5), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3125](/us/stat/104/3125).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1990—Par. (5). [Pub. L. 101–609](/us/pl/101/609) added par. (5).
