---
title: "§ 1513. Duties and powers vested in Department"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1513"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1513"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, § 10](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552/s10), [32 Stat. 829](/us/stat/32/829).)"
---
# § 1513. Duties and powers vested in Department

##### § 1513. Duties and powers vested in Department

All duties performed and all power and authority possessed or exercised by the head of any executive department in and over any bureau, office, officer, board, branch, or division of the public service transferred to the Department of Commerce, or any business arising therefrom or pertaining thereto, or in relation to the duties performed by and authority conferred by law upon such bureau, officer, office, board, branch, or division of the public service, whether of an appellate or revisory character or otherwise, shall be vested in and exercised by the Secretary of Commerce.

*([Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, § 10](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552/s10), [32 Stat. 829](/us/stat/32/829).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 599 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s599) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

[Act Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch141), [37 Stat. 736](/us/stat/37/736), provided that the Department of Commerce and Labor and Secretary of Commerce and Labor were to be thereafter called the Department of Commerce and Secretary of Commerce and that the act creating the Department of Commerce and Labor (act Feb. 14, 1903) was amended accordingly.

#### Government Interest in Patents

For duties and powers of Secretary of Commerce with respect to interest of Government in patents, see executive orders set out as notes under [section 266 of Title 35](/us/usc/t35/s266), Patents.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of Commerce, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Commerce, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 5 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/64/1263), set out as a note under [section 1501 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1501).
