---
title: "§ 6509. Vouchering Senate office charges"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6509"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6509"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–69, title I, § 1](/us/pl/103/69/tI/s1), Aug. 11, 1993, [107 Stat. 695](/us/stat/107/695).)"
---
# § 6509. Vouchering Senate office charges

##### § 6509. Vouchering Senate office charges

(a) Senate support office charges Charges for expenses of any office, the funds of which are disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, may be vouchered by a Senate support office paying such expenses or to which such charges are owed for goods or services provided, if—

(1) such charges are paid on behalf of the office incurring such expenses by such Senate support office; or

(2) such charges are payable to such Senate support office for goods or services provided by such office to the office incurring such expenses.

(b) Payment charged to official funds Payments under this section shall be charged to the official funds of the office on whose behalf the expenses were paid, or which received the goods or services for which payment is required.

(c) Certification Any voucher submitted by a Senate support office pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by a certification from such office of the amount and that such purchases were of the nature that they could be charged to the official funds of the office on whose behalf charges were paid, or to which goods or services were provided.

(d) Regulations Vouchers under this section shall be submitted and paid subject to such regulations as may be promulgated by the Committee on Rules and Administration.

*([Pub. L. 103–69, title I, § 1](/us/pl/103/69/tI/s1), Aug. 11, 1993, [107 Stat. 695](/us/stat/107/695).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 68–8 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s68–8) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1994, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1994.
