---
title: "§ 299b–23. Network of patient safety databases"
identifier: "USC-T42-S299b–23"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section299b–23"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IX, § 923, as added [Pub. L. 109–41, § 2(a)(5)](/us/pl/109/41/s2/a/5), July 29, 2005, [119 Stat. 431](/us/stat/119/431).)"
---
# § 299b–23. Network of patient safety databases

##### § 299b–23. Network of patient safety databases

(a) In general The Secretary shall facilitate the creation of, and maintain, a network of patient safety databases that provides an interactive evidence-based management resource for providers, patient safety organizations, and other entities. The network of databases shall have the capacity to accept, aggregate across the network, and analyze nonidentifiable patient safety work product voluntarily reported by patient safety organizations, providers, or other entities. The Secretary shall assess the feasibility of providing for a single point of access to the network for qualified researchers for information aggregated across the network and, if feasible, provide for implementation.

(b) Data standards The Secretary may determine common formats for the reporting to and among the network of patient safety databases maintained under subsection (a) of nonidentifiable patient safety work product, including necessary work product elements, common and consistent definitions, and a standardized computer interface for the processing of such work product. To the extent practicable, such standards shall be consistent with the administrative simplification provisions of part C of title XI of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1320d](/us/usc/t42/s1320d) et seq.].

(c) Use of information Information reported to and among the network of patient safety databases under subsection (a) shall be used to analyze national and regional statistics, including trends and patterns of health care errors. The information resulting from such analyses shall be made available to the public and included in the annual quality reports prepared under [section 299b–2(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s299b–2/b/2).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IX, § 923, as added [Pub. L. 109–41, § 2(a)(5)](/us/pl/109/41/s2/a/5), July 29, 2005, [119 Stat. 431](/us/stat/119/431).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Part C of title XI of the Act is classified generally to part C (§ 1320d et seq.) of subchapter XI of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 923 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 943 and is classified to [section 299c–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s299c–2).

Another prior section 923 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 299c–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s299c–2) prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 106–129](/us/pl/106/129).
