---
title: "§ 3376. Regulations"
identifier: "USC-T5-S3376"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section3376"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 91–648, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/91/648/tIV/s402/a), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1925](/us/stat/84/1925).)"
---
# § 3376. Regulations

##### § 3376. Regulations

The President may prescribe regulations for the administration of this subchapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 91–648, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/91/648/tIV/s402/a), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1925](/us/stat/84/1925).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective sixty days after Jan. 5, 1971, see [section 404 of Pub. L. 91–648](/us/pl/91/648/s404), set out as a note under [section 3371 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s3371).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 11589. Delegation of Functions to Office of Personnel Management

Ex. Ord. No. 11589, Apr. 1, 1971, 36 F.R. 6343, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 12107, Dec. 28, 1978, 44 F.R. 1055, provided:

By virtue of the authority vested in me by [section 301 of title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301) of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:

Section 1. The Office of Personnel Management is hereby designated and empowered to exercise, without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President, the following:

(a) The authority of the President under [section 3376 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3376) of the United States Code [this section] to prescribe regulations for the administration of subchapter VI, “Assignments to and from States,” of chapter 33 of that title [this chapter].

(b) The authority of the President under section 205 (a)(4) of the Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950, as amended ([former] 50 U.S.C. App. 2286(a)(4)), and as affected by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1958 ([72 Stat. 1799](/us/stat/72/1799)) [set out in the Appendix to this title], relating to the establishment and maintenance of personnel standards on the merit basis.

Sec. 2. To the extent that section 1(b) of this order is inconsistent with the provisions of Executive Order No. 10952 of July 20, 1961, as amended, section 1(b) shall control.
