---
title: "§ 2486. Trade relations with North American countries"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2486"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2486"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–618, title VI, § 612](/us/pl/93/618/tVI/s612), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2076](/us/stat/88/2076); [Pub. L. 96–39, title XI, § 1104(a)](/us/pl/96/39/tXI/s1104/a), (b)(1), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 310](/us/stat/93/310).)"
---
# § 2486. Trade relations with North American countries

##### § 2486. Trade relations with North American countries

(a) Negotiations for free trade area with Canada It is the sense of the Congress that the United States should enter into a trade agreement with Canada which will guarantee continued stability to the economies of the United States and Canada. In order to promote such economic stability, the President may initiate negotiations for a trade agreement with Canada to establish a free trade area covering the United States and Canada. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prior approval of any legislation which may be necessary to implement such a trade agreement.

(b) Regional study The President shall study the desirability of entering into trade agreements with countries in the northern portion of the western hemisphere to promote the economic growth of the United States and such countries and the mutual expansion of market opportunities and report to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate his findings and conclusions within 2 years after July 26, 1979. The study shall include an examination of competitive opportunities and conditions of competition between such countries and the United States in the agricultural, energy, and other appropriate sectors.

*([Pub. L. 93–618, title VI, § 612](/us/pl/93/618/tVI/s612), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2076](/us/stat/88/2076); [Pub. L. 96–39, title XI, § 1104(a)](/us/pl/96/39/tXI/s1104/a), (b)(1), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 310](/us/stat/93/310).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1979—[Pub. L. 96–39](/us/pl/96/39) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–39](/us/pl/96/39) effective July 26, 1979, see [section 1114 of Pub. L. 96–39](/us/pl/96/39/s1114), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 2581 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2581).
