---
title: "§ 1395i–1. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1395i–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1395i–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 111(d)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s111/d), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 343](/us/stat/79/343).)"
---
# § 1395i–1. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 1395i–1. Authorization of appropriations

(1) payments made or to be made during such fiscal year from such Trust Fund under this part with respect to individuals who are qualified railroad retirement beneficiaries (as defined in section 426(c) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title) and who are not, and upon filing application for monthly insurance benefits under [section 402 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s402) would not be, entitled to such benefits if service as an employee (as defined in the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 [[45 U.S.C. 228a](/us/usc/t45/s228a) et seq.]) after December 31, 1936, had been included in the term “employment” as defined in this chapter,

(2) the additional administrative expenses resulting or expected to result therefrom, and

(3) any loss of interest to such Trust Fund resulting from the payment of such amounts,

*([Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 111(d)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s111/d), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 343](/us/stat/79/343).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 426(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s426/c), referred to in par. (1), was redesignated [section 426(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s426/d) by [Pub. L. 92–603, title II, § 201(b)(5)](/us/pl/92/603/tII/s201/b/5), Oct. 30, 1972, [86 Stat. 1372](/us/stat/86/1372).

The Railroad Retirement Act of 1937, referred to in par. (1), is [act Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 812](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch812), [49 Stat. 867](/us/stat/49/867), as amended generally by [act June 24, 1937, ch. 382, part I](/us/act/1937-06-24/ch382/ptI), [50 Stat. 307](/us/stat/50/307), and which was classified principally to subchapter III (§ 228a et seq.) of chapter 9 of Title 45, Railroads. The Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 was amended generally and redesignated the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 by [Pub. L. 93–445, title I](/us/pl/93/445/tI), Oct. 16, 1974, [88 Stat. 1305](/us/stat/88/1305). The Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 231 et seq.) of chapter 9 of title 45. For complete classification of these Acts to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Social Security Amendments of 1965 and also as part of the Health Insurance for the Aged Act, and not as part of the Social Security Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 111(e)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s111/e), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 343](/us/stat/79/343), provided that: “(1) The amendments made by the preceding provisions of this section [enacting this section and [section 228s–2 of Title 45](/us/usc/t45/s228s–2), Railroads, and amending [section 1395kk of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395kk) and sections 1401, 3101, 3111, 3201, 3211, and 3221 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, and [section 228e of Title 45](/us/usc/t45/s228e)] shall apply to the calendar year 1966 or to any subsequent calendar year, but only if the requirement in paragraph (2) has been met with respect to such calendar year. “(2) The requirement referred to in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to have been met with respect to any calendar year if, as of the October 1 immediately preceding such calendar year, the Railroad Retirement Tax Act [section 3101 et seq. of Title 26] provides that the maximum amount of monthly compensation taxable under such Act during all months of such calendar year will be an amount equal to one-twelfth of the maximum wages which the Federal Insurance Contributions Act [section 3201 et seq. of Title 26] provides may be counted for such calendar year.”
