---
title: "§§ 222 to 224. Repealed. [Pub. L. 87–256, § 111(a)(4)](/us/pl/87/256/s111/a/4), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 538](/us/stat/75/538)"
identifier: "USC-T20-S222...224"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section222...224"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
---
# §§ 222 to 224. Repealed. [Pub. L. 87–256, § 111(a)(4)](/us/pl/87/256/s111/a/4), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 538](/us/stat/75/538)

##### §§ 222 to 224. Repealed. [Pub. L. 87–256, § 111(a)(4)](/us/pl/87/256/s111/a/4), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 538](/us/stat/75/538)

Sections, [act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 505](/us/act/1949-08-24/ch505), §§ 1–3, [63 Stat. 630](/us/stat/63/630), authorized the creation of a special deposit account for sums due or paid by the Republic of Finland to the United States as interest on or in retirement of the principal of the debt incurred under the act of Feb. 25, 1919, as refunded by the agreement dated May 1, 1923, pursuant to authority contained in sections 805 to 809 of former Title 31, Money and Finance, or of any other indebtedness incurred by Finland and owing to the United States as a result of World War I, provided for the use of such fund for exchange of students, professors, etc., for the interchange of books and technical equipment, and for disbursements from the account. See section 2451 et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, particularly section 2455.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Continuation of Certain Executive Orders, Agreements, Determinations, Regulations, Contracts, Appointments, and Other Actions

Continuation in full force and effect, and applicability to the appropriate provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, set out in section 2451 et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, until modified or superseded by appropriate authority, of all Executive orders, agreements, determinations, regulations, contracts, appointments, and other actions issued, concluded, or taken under authority of these sections, see [section 111(b) of Pub. L. 87–256](/us/pl/87/256/s111/b), set out as a note under [section 2451 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s2451).
