---
title: "§ 12222. Use of funds"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12222"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12222"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31702](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31702), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1890](/us/stat/108/1890); [Pub. L. 110–177, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/110/177/tIII/s301/a), Jan. 7, 2008, [121 Stat. 2538](/us/stat/121/2538).)"
---
# § 12222. Use of funds

##### § 12222. Use of funds

(1) to fund programs that require the cooperation and coordination of prosecutors, school officials, police, probation officers, youth and social service professionals, and community members in the effort to reduce the incidence of, and increase the successful identification and speed of prosecution of, young violent offenders;

(2) to fund programs in which prosecutors focus on the offender, not simply the specific offense, and impose individualized sanctions, designed to deter that offender from further antisocial conduct, and impose increasingly serious sanctions on a young offender who continues to commit offenses;

(3) to fund programs that coordinate criminal justice resources with educational, social service, and community resources to develop and deliver violence prevention programs, including mediation and other conflict resolution methods, treatment, counseling, educational, and recreational programs that create alternatives to criminal activity;

(4) in rural States (as defined in [section 10351(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10351/b)), to fund cooperative efforts between State and local prosecutors, victim advocacy and assistance groups, social and community service providers, and law enforcement agencies to investigate and prosecute child abuse cases, treat youthful victims of child abuse, and work in cooperation with the community to develop education and prevention strategies directed toward the issues with which such entities are concerned; and

(5) by a State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe to create and expand witness and victim protection programs to prevent threats, intimidation, and retaliation against victims of, and witnesses to, violent crimes.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31702](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31702), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1890](/us/stat/108/1890); [Pub. L. 110–177, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/110/177/tIII/s301/a), Jan. 7, 2008, [121 Stat. 2538](/us/stat/121/2538).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13862 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13862), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2008—Par. (5). [Pub. L. 110–177](/us/pl/110/177) added par. (5).
