---
title: "§ 1941. Uniform"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1941"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1941"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 1824; [Pub. L. 92–607](/us/pl/92/607), ch. V, § 507, Oct. 31, 1972, [86 Stat. 1508](/us/stat/86/1508); [Pub. L. 95–26, title I, § 112](/us/pl/95/26/tI/s112), May 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 87](/us/stat/91/87); [Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 1003](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s1003), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3180](/us/stat/118/3180).)"
---
# § 1941. Uniform

##### § 1941. Uniform

The Capitol Police Board shall select and regulate the pattern for a uniform for the Capitol police and watchmen, and furnish each member of the force with the necessary belts and arms, payable from appropriations to the Capitol Police upon certification of payment by the Chief of the Capitol Police. Such arms so furnished or other arms as authorized by the Capitol Police Board shall be carried by each officer and member of the Capitol Police, while in the Capitol Buildings (as defined in [section 5101 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s5101)), and while within or outside of the boundaries of the United States Capitol Grounds (as defined in [section 5102 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s5102)), in such manner and at such times as the Capitol Police Board may, by regulations, prescribe.

*(R.S. § 1824; [Pub. L. 92–607](/us/pl/92/607), ch. V, § 507, Oct. 31, 1972, [86 Stat. 1508](/us/stat/86/1508); [Pub. L. 95–26, title I, § 112](/us/pl/95/26/tI/s112), May 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 87](/us/stat/91/87); [Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 1003](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s1003), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3180](/us/stat/118/3180).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 210 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

R.S. § 1824 derived from [act Mar. 30, 1867, ch. 20, § 1](/us/act/1867-03-30/ch20/s1), [15 Stat. 11](/us/stat/15/11).

#### Amendments

2004—[Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447), in first sentence, substituted “The Capitol Police Board” for “The Sergeant at Arms of the Senate and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives” and “payable from appropriations to the Capitol Police upon certification of payment by the Chief of the Capitol Police” for “payable out of the contingent fund of the Senate and House of Representatives upon the certificate of the officers above named” and, in second sentence, inserted “or other arms as authorized by the Capitol Police Board” after “furnished” and substituted “the Capitol Police Board” for “the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives”.

1977—[Pub. L. 95–26](/us/pl/95/26) struck out “at a cost not to exceed twenty dollars per man,” after “furnish each member of the force with the necessary belts and arms,”.

1972—[Pub. L. 92–607](/us/pl/92/607) directed that the arms be carried in the Capitol Buildings and within and without the boundaries of the United States Capitol Grounds according to regulations prescribed by the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives.
