---
title: "§ 2243. Smuggled food"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2243"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2243"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–353, title III, § 309](/us/pl/111/353/tIII/s309), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3966](/us/stat/124/3966).)"
---
# § 2243. Smuggled food

##### § 2243. Smuggled food

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after January 4, 2011, the Secretary shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, develop and implement a strategy to better identify smuggled food and prevent entry of such food into the United States.

(b) Notification to Homeland Security Not later than 10 days after the Secretary identifies a smuggled food that the Secretary believes would cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals, the Secretary shall provide to the Secretary of Homeland Security a notification under [section 350f(n) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s350f/n) describing the smuggled food and, if available, the names of the individuals or entities that attempted to import such food into the United States.

(c) Public notification If the Secretary—

the Secretary shall promptly issue a press release describing that food and shall use other emergency communication or recall networks, as appropriate, to warn consumers and vendors about the potential threat.

(1) identifies a smuggled food;

(2) reasonably believes exposure to the food would cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals; and

(3) reasonably believes that the food has entered domestic commerce and is likely to be consumed,

(d) Effect of section Nothing in this section shall affect the authority of the Secretary to issue public notifications under other circumstances.

(e) Definition In this subsection, the term “smuggled food” means any food that a person introduces into the United States through fraudulent means or with the intent to defraud or mislead.

*([Pub. L. 111–353, title III, § 309](/us/pl/111/353/tIII/s309), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3966](/us/stat/124/3966).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Secretary, referred to in text, probably means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
