---
title: "§ 48201. Advance appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T49-S48201"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section48201"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–264, title II, § 277(a)](/us/pl/104/264/tII/s277/a), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3248](/us/stat/110/3248).)"
---
# § 48201. Advance appropriations

##### § 48201. Advance appropriations

(a) Multiyear Authorizations.— Beginning with fiscal year 1999, any authorization of appropriations for an activity for which amounts are to be appropriated from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund established under section 9502 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall provide funds for a period of not less than 3 fiscal years unless the activity for which appropriations are authorized is to be concluded before the end of that period.

(b) Multiyear Appropriations.— Beginning with fiscal year 1999, amounts appropriated from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund shall be appropriated for periods of 3 fiscal years rather than annually.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–264, title II, § 277(a)](/us/pl/104/264/tII/s277/a), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3248](/us/stat/110/3248).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 9502 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (a), is classified to [section 9502 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s9502), Internal Revenue Code.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on date that is 30 days after Oct. 9, 1996, see [section 203 of Pub. L. 104–264](/us/pl/104/264/s203), set out as an Effective Date of 1996 Amendment note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).

Except as otherwise specifically provided, section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 1996, and not to be construed as affecting funds made available for a fiscal year ending before Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 104–264](/us/pl/104/264/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 1996 Amendment note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
