---
title: "§ 3610. Senior Cryptologic Executive Service"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3610"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3610"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–36, § 12](/us/pl/86/36/s12), as added [Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/97/89/tVI/s603), Dec. 4, 1981, [95 Stat. 1156](/us/stat/95/1156); amended [Pub. L. 101–194, title V, § 506(c)(2)](/us/pl/101/194/tV/s506/c/2), Nov. 30, 1989, [103 Stat. 1759](/us/stat/103/1759); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title X, § 1064(b)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tX/s1064/b), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 445](/us/stat/110/445).)"
---
# § 3610. Senior Cryptologic Executive Service

##### § 3610. Senior Cryptologic Executive Service

(a) Establishment; applicable personnel provisions

(1) The Secretary of Defense (or his designee) may by regulation establish a personnel system for senior civilian cryptologic personnel in the National Security Agency to be known as the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service. The regulations establishing the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service shall—

(A) meet the requirements set forth in [section 3131 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3131) for the Senior Executive Service;

(B) provide that positions in the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service meet requirements that are consistent with the provisions of section 3132(a)(2) of such title;

(C) provide, without regard to section 2,11 See References in Text note below. rates of pay for the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service that are not in excess of the maximum rate or less than the minimum rate of basic pay established for the Senior Executive Service under section 5382 of such title, and that are adjusted at the same time and to the same extent as rates of basic pay for the Senior Executive Service are adjusted;

(D) provide a performance appraisal system for the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service that conforms to the provisions of subchapter II of chapter 43 of such title;

(E) provide for removal consistent with section 3592 of such title, and removal or suspension consistent with subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 7543 of such title (except that any hearing or appeal to which a member of the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service is entitled shall be held or decided pursuant to procedures established by regulations of the Secretary of Defense or his designee);

(F) permit the payment of performance awards to members of the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service consistent with the provisions applicable to performance awards under section 5384 of such title;

(G) provide that members of the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service may be granted sabbatical leaves consistent with the provisions of section 3396(c) of such title; and

(H) provide for the recertification of members of the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service consistent with the provisions of section 3393a ^1 of such title.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense (or his designee) may—

(A) make applicable to the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service any of the provisions of title 5 applicable to applicants for or members of the Senior Executive Service; and

(B) appoint, promote, and assign individuals to positions established within the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments and other personnel actions in the competitive service.

(3) The President, based on the recommendations of the Secretary of Defense, may award ranks to members of the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service in a manner consistent with the provisions of [section 4507 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s4507).

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Director of the National Security Agency may detail or assign any member of the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service to serve in a position outside the National Security Agency in which the member’s expertise and experience may be of benefit to the National Security Agency or another Government agency. Any such member shall not by reason of such detail or assignment lose any entitlement or status associated with membership in the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service.

(b) Merit pay system The Secretary of Defense (or his designee) may by regulation establish a merit pay system for such employees of the National Security Agency as the Secretary of Defense (or his designee) considers appropriate. The merit pay system shall be designed to carry out purposes consistent with those set forth in [section 5401(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5401/a).

(c) Maximum pay for fiscal year Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow the aggregate amount payable to a member of the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service under this section during any fiscal year to exceed the annual rate payable for positions at level I of the Executive Schedule in effect at the end of such year.

*([Pub. L. 86–36, § 12](/us/pl/86/36/s12), as added [Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/97/89/tVI/s603), Dec. 4, 1981, [95 Stat. 1156](/us/stat/95/1156); amended [Pub. L. 101–194, title V, § 506(c)(2)](/us/pl/101/194/tV/s506/c/2), Nov. 30, 1989, [103 Stat. 1759](/us/stat/103/1759); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title X, § 1064(b)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tX/s1064/b), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 445](/us/stat/110/445).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 2, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(C), meant [section 2 of Pub. L. 86–36](/us/pl/86/36/s2), May 29, 1959, [73 Stat. 63](/us/stat/73/63); [Pub. L. 87–367, title II, § 201](/us/pl/87/367/tII/s201), Oct. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 789](/us/stat/75/789); [Sept. 23, 1950, ch. 1024](/us/act/1950-09-23/ch1024), title III, § 306(a), as added [Pub. L. 88–290](/us/pl/88/290), Mar. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 170](/us/stat/78/170); [Pub. L. 88–426, title III, § 306(h)](/us/pl/88/426/tIII/s306/h), Aug. 14, 1964, [78 Stat. 430](/us/stat/78/430); [Pub. L. 88–631, § 3(d)](/us/pl/88/631/s3/d), Oct. 6, 1964, [78 Stat. 1008](/us/stat/78/1008); [Pub. L. 89–632, § 1(e)(1)](/us/pl/89/632/s1/e/1), Oct. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 878](/us/stat/80/878); [Pub. L. 102–496, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/102/496/tIV/s405), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3186](/us/stat/106/3186), which related to authority of Secretary of Defense to establish positions and fix compensation, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVI), §§ 1633(b)(1), 1635, Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2751](/us/stat/110/2751), 2752, effective Oct. 1, 1996. A new [section 2 of Pub. L. 86–36](/us/pl/86/36/s2) subsequently was added by [Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, § 433](/us/pl/111/259/tIV/s433), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2732](/us/stat/124/2732), and is classified to [section 3602 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3602).

[Section 3393a of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3393a), referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(H), was repealed by [Pub. L. 107–296, title XIII, § 1321(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/107/296/tXIII/s1321/a/1/B), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2296](/us/stat/116/2296).

Level I of the Executive Schedule, referred to in subsec. (c), is set out in [section 5312 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5312), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified in a note under [section 402 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s402) prior to editorial reclassification as this section.

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) struck out par. (5), which required the Director of the National Security Agency to submit to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate annual reports on executive personnel in the National Security Agency.

1989—Subsec. (a)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 101–194, § 506(c)(2)(A)](/us/pl/101/194/s506/c/2/A), struck out “and” at end of subpar. (F).

Subsec. (a)(1)(G). [Pub. L. 101–194, § 506(c)(2)(B)](/us/pl/101/194/s506/c/2/B), which directed amendment by inserting “and” after the semicolon at the end of subpar. (G), was executed by substituting “; and” for the period at the end of subpar. (G), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (a)(1)(H). [Pub. L. 101–194, § 506(c)(2)(C)](/us/pl/101/194/s506/c/2/C), added subpar. (H).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1989 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–194](/us/pl/101/194) effective Jan. 1, 1991, see [section 506(d) of Pub. L. 101–194](/us/pl/101/194/s506/d), set out as a note under [section 3151 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3151), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1981, see [section 806 of Pub. L. 97–89](/us/pl/97/89/s806), set out as a note under [section 1621 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1621), Armed Forces.
