---
title: "§ 4307. Prohibited acts"
identifier: "USC-T46-S4307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section4307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 531](/us/stat/97/531); [Pub. L. 98–557, § 8(a)](/us/pl/98/557/s8/a), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2862](/us/stat/98/2862).)"
---
# § 4307. Prohibited acts

##### § 4307. Prohibited acts

(a) A person may not—

(1) manufacture, construct, assemble, sell or offer for sale, introduce or deliver for introduction into interstate commerce, or import into the United States, a recreational vessel, associated equipment, or component of the vessel or equipment unless—

(A)

(i) it conforms with this chapter or a regulation prescribed under this chapter; and

(ii) it does not contain a defect which has been identified, in any communication to such person by the Secretary or the manufacturer of that vessel, equipment or component, as creating a substantial risk of personal injury to the public; or

(B) it is intended only for export and is so labeled, tagged, or marked on the recreational vessel or equipment, including any markings on the outside of the container in which it is to be exported;

(2) affix, attach, or display a seal, document, label, plate, insignia, or other device indicating or suggesting compliance with standards of the United States Government on, in, or in connection with, a recreational vessel or item of associated equipment that is false or misleading; or

(3) fail to provide a notification as required by this chapter or fail to exercise reasonable diligence in carrying out the notification and reporting requirements of this chapter.

(b) A person may not operate a vessel in violation of this chapter or a regulation prescribed under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 531](/us/stat/97/531); [Pub. L. 98–557, § 8(a)](/us/pl/98/557/s8/a), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2862](/us/stat/98/2862).)*

Section 4307 prohibits certain acts in the manufacture and operation of recreational vessels.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 4307(a) | 46:1461(a) |
| 4307(b) | 46:1461(c) |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 98–557](/us/pl/98/557) designated existing provisions as cl. (i), substituted “and” for “or”, and added cl. (ii).
