---
title: "§ 760–2. Establishment of fish hatchery in Montana"
identifier: "USC-T16-S760–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section760–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 4, 1956, ch. 366, § 1](/us/act/1956-06-04/ch366/s1), [70 Stat. 247](/us/stat/70/247).)"
---
# § 760–2. Establishment of fish hatchery in Montana

##### § 760–2. Establishment of fish hatchery in Montana

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to establish, construct, equip, operate, and maintain a new fish hatchery in the vicinity of Miles City, Montana.

*([June 4, 1956, ch. 366, § 1](/us/act/1956-06-04/ch366/s1), [70 Stat. 247](/us/stat/70/247).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Miles City National Fish Hatchery

[Pub. L. 99–432, § 7](/us/pl/99/432/s7), Oct. 1, 1986, [100 Stat. 990](/us/stat/100/990), provided that: “Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the State of Montana, without reimbursement to the United States and no later than thirty days following enactment of this legislation [Oct. 1, 1986], all of the rights (including all water rights), title, and interest of the United States in and to the fish hatchery property located south of Miles City, Montana, and known as the Miles City National Fish Hatchery, consisting of 168.22 acres, more or less, of land, together with any improvements and related personal property thereon. The property conveyed shall be used by the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks as part of the Montana fishery resources management program. If the property conveyed is ever used for other than these purposes, title to such property shall revert to the United States.”

Similar provisions were contained in [Pub. L. 99–500, § 101(h) [title I, § 112]](/us/pl/99/500/s101/h/tI/s112), Oct. 18, 1986, [100 Stat. 1783–242](/us/stat/100/1783-242), 1783–262, and [Pub. L. 99–591, § 101(h) [title I, § 112]](/us/pl/99/591/s101/h/tI/s112), Oct. 30, 1986, [100 Stat. 3341–242](/us/stat/100/3341-242), 3341–262.

#### Appropriations

Section 2 of act June 4, 1956, authorized an appropriation of $465,000 to carry out this section.
