---
title: "§ 6805. Cooperative agreements"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6805"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6805"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 806](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s806), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3387](/us/stat/118/3387).)"
---
# § 6805. Cooperative agreements

##### § 6805. Cooperative agreements

(a) Fee management agreement Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, the Secretary may enter into a fee management agreement, including a contract, which may provide for a reasonable commission, reimbursement, or discount, with the following entities for the following purposes:

(1) With any governmental or nongovernmental entity, including those in a gateway community, for the purpose of obtaining fee collection and processing services, including visitor reservation services.

(2) With any governmental or nongovernmental entity, including those in a gateway community, for the purpose of obtaining emergency medical services.

(3) With any governmental entity, including those in a gateway community, to obtain law enforcement services.

(b) Revenue sharing A State or legal subdivision of a State that enters into an agreement with the Secretary under subsection (a) may share in a percentage of the revenues collected at the site in accordance with that fee management agreement.

(c) County proposals The Secretary shall consider any proposal submitted by a county to provide services described in subsection (a). If the Secretary decides not to enter into a fee management agreement with the county under subsection (a), the Secretary shall notify the county in writing of the decision, identifying the reasons for the decision. The fee management agreement may include cooperative site planning and management provisions.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 806](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s806), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3387](/us/stat/118/3387).)*
