---
title: "§ 2421A. Promotion or facilitation of prostitution and reckless disregard of sex trafficking"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2421A"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2421A"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–164, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/164/s3/a), Apr. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 1253](/us/stat/132/1253).)"
---
# § 2421A. Promotion or facilitation of prostitution and reckless disregard of sex trafficking

##### § 2421A. Promotion or facilitation of prostitution and reckless disregard of sex trafficking

(a) In General.— Whoever, using a facility or means of interstate or foreign commerce or in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, owns, manages, or operates an interactive computer service (as such term is defined in defined in 11 So in original. section 230(f) the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 230(f)](/us/usc/t47/s230/f))), or conspires or attempts to do so, with the intent to promote or facilitate the prostitution of another person shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.

(b) Aggravated Violation.— Whoever, using a facility or means of interstate or foreign commerce or in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, owns, manages, or operates an interactive computer service (as such term is defined in defined in ^1 section 230(f) the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 230(f)](/us/usc/t47/s230/f))), or conspires or attempts to do so, with the intent to promote or facilitate the prostitution of another person and—

shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for not more than 25 years, or both.

(1) promotes or facilitates the prostitution of 5 or more persons; or

(2) acts in reckless disregard of the fact that such conduct contributed to sex trafficking, in violation of 22 So in original. Probably should be followed by “section”. 1591(a),

(c) Civil Recovery.— Any person injured by reason of a violation of section 2421A(b) may recover damages and reasonable attorneys’ fees in an action before any appropriate United States district court.

(d) Mandatory Restitution.— Notwithstanding sections 33 So in original. Probably should be “section”. 3663 or 3663A and in addition to any other civil or criminal penalties authorized by law, the court shall order restitution for any violation of subsection (b)(2). The scope and nature of such restitution shall be consistent with section 2327(b).

(e) Affirmative Defense.— It shall be an affirmative defense to a charge of violating subsection (a), or subsection (b)(1) where the defendant proves, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the promotion or facilitation of prostitution is legal in the jurisdiction where the promotion or facilitation was targeted.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–164, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/164/s3/a), Apr. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 1253](/us/stat/132/1253).)*
