---
title: "§ 3477. Acquisition and maintenance of property"
identifier: "USC-T20-S3477"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section3477"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–88, title IV, § 417](/us/pl/96/88/tIV/s417), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 685](/us/stat/93/685).)"
---
# § 3477. Acquisition and maintenance of property

##### § 3477. Acquisition and maintenance of property

(a) Authorized properties; establishment of necessary facilities The Secretary is authorized—

(1) to acquire (by purchase, lease, condemnation, or otherwise), construct, improve, repair, operate, and maintain—

as may be necessary; and

(A) schools and related facilities (but only to the extent that operation of schools and related facilities by the Department is authorized by this chapter);

(B) laboratories;

(C) research and testing sites and facilities;

(D) quarters and related accommodations for employees and dependents of employees of the Department; and

(E) personal property (including patents), or any interest therein,

(2) to provide by contract or otherwise for the establishment of eating facilities and other necessary facilities for the health and welfare of employees of the Department at its installations, and purchase and maintain equipment therefor.

(b) Day care center facilities The authority available to the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under [section 2564 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s2564), shall also be available to the Secretary.

(c) Special purpose facilities The authority granted by subsection (a) of this section shall be available only with respect to facilities of a special purpose nature that cannot readily be reassigned from similar Federal activities and are not otherwise available for assignment to the Department by the Administrator of General Services.

*([Pub. L. 96–88, title IV, § 417](/us/pl/96/88/tIV/s417), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 685](/us/stat/93/685).)*
