---
title: "§ 4403. Duties of Secretary of Agriculture"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4403"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4403"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–325, § 4](/us/pl/97/325/s4), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1604](/us/stat/96/1604).)"
---
# § 4403. Duties of Secretary of Agriculture

##### § 4403. Duties of Secretary of Agriculture

(1) designate appropriate organizations to inspect or test equipment, or both;

(2) issue certificates of compliance in accordance with annex 1, appendix 1, paragraph 4 of the agreement;

(3) prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to implement the agreement and administer this chapter, including, but not limited to, provision for suspending or denying the designation of any organization to inspect or test equipment and for denying the issuance of certificates of compliance as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the regulations issued thereunder;

(4) make periodic onsite inspections of facilities and procedures used by those seeking certificates of compliance and by organizations designated to test or inspect equipment under this chapter;

(5) require submission of reports by those seeking certificates of compliance and by organizations designated to test or inspect equipment under this chapter;

(6) require maintenance of records by those seeking certificates of compliance and by organizations designated to test or inspect equipment under this chapter, such records to be made available to the Secretary upon request;

(7) inform contracting parties, through the Secretary of State of the United States, of all general measures taken in connection with the implementation of the agreement; and

(8) take such other action as may be considered appropriate to implement the agreement and administer this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 97–325, § 4](/us/pl/97/325/s4), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1604](/us/stat/96/1604).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in pars. (3) to (6) and (8), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 97–325](/us/pl/97/325), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1603](/us/stat/96/1603), known as the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4401 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4401) and Tables.
