---
title: "§ 1901. Establishment; officer appointments"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 1821; [Apr. 28, 1902, ch. 594](/us/act/1902-04-28/ch594), [32 Stat. 124](/us/stat/32/124); [June 28, 1943, ch. 173](/us/act/1943-06-28/ch173), title I, [57 Stat. 230](/us/stat/57/230); [Pub. L. 96–152, § 1(a)](/us/pl/96/152/s1/a), Dec. 20, 1979, [93 Stat. 1099](/us/stat/93/1099); [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1018(h)(1)](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1018/h/1), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 368](/us/stat/117/368); [Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(e)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/e/1)–(3), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 5"
---
# § 1901. Establishment; officer appointments

##### § 1901. Establishment; officer appointments

There shall be a Capitol police. There shall be a captain of the Capitol police and such other members with such rates of compensation, respectively, as may be appropriated for by Congress from year to year. The Capitol Police shall be headed by a Chief who shall be appointed by the Capitol Police Board and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.

*(R.S. § 1821; [Apr. 28, 1902, ch. 594](/us/act/1902-04-28/ch594), [32 Stat. 124](/us/stat/32/124); [June 28, 1943, ch. 173](/us/act/1943-06-28/ch173), title I, [57 Stat. 230](/us/stat/57/230); [Pub. L. 96–152, § 1(a)](/us/pl/96/152/s1/a), Dec. 20, 1979, [93 Stat. 1099](/us/stat/93/1099); [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1018(h)(1)](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1018/h/1), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 368](/us/stat/117/368); [Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(e)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/e/1)–(3), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 54](/us/stat/124/54), 55.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 206 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

Section was a composite of provisions of R.S. § 1821, act Apr. 28, 1902, and act June 28, 1943, cited in the credits. Provisions from act Apr. 28, 1902, and act June 28, 1943, were repealed by [Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(e)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/e/1).

R.S. § 1821 derived from acts [Mar. 2, 1867, ch. 167, § 2](/us/act/1867-03-02/ch167/s2), [14 Stat. 466](/us/stat/14/466); [Mar. 3, 1873, ch. 226](/us/act/1873-03-03/ch226), [17 Stat. 488](/us/stat/17/488).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(e)(3)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/e/3), amended first sentence of R.S. § 1821 by striking “, the members of which shall be appointed by the Sergeants-at-Arms of the two Houses and the Architect of the Capitol Extension” after “There shall be a Capitol police”.

[Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(e)(2)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/e/2), repealed [Pub. L. 108–7, § 1018(h)(1)](/us/pl/108/7/s1018/h/1), and provided that the sentence repealed by such section is restored to appear at end of section. See 2003 Amendment note below.

[Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(e)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/e/1), struck out “The captain and lieutenants shall be selected jointly by the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives; and one-half of the privates shall be selected by the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate and one-half by the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives.” after “from year to year.”

2003—[Pub. L. 108–7, § 1018(h)(1)](/us/pl/108/7/s1018/h/1), which struck out last sentence which read “The Capitol Police shall be headed by a Chief who shall be appointed by the Capitol Police Board and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.”, was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(e)(2)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/e/2).

1979—[Pub. L. 96–152](/us/pl/96/152) inserted last sentence providing that the Capitol Police be headed by a Chief who shall be appointed by the Capitol Police Board and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(d)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/d), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 54](/us/stat/124/54), provided that: “(1) Repeal of duplicate provisions.—Effective as if included in the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2008 ([Public Law 110–161](/us/pl/110/161)), section 1004 of such Act [enacting sections 141b and 143c of this title, amending sections 167i, 167j, 182b, 185, and 1961 of this title and sections 5101, 5102, and 5104 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, repealing sections 167 to 167h of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 167 and 182b of this title, and repealing provisions set out as notes under this section] is repealed, and any provision of law amended or repealed by such section is restored or revived to read as if such section had not been enacted into law. “(2) No effect on other act.—Nothing in paragraph (1) may be construed to prevent the enactment or implementation of any provision of the U.S. Capitol Police and Library of Congress Police Merger Implementation Act of 2007 ([Public Law 110–178](/us/pl/110/178)) [see Tables for classification], including any provision of such Act that amends or repeals a provision of law which is restored or revived pursuant to paragraph (1).”

[Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(e)(4)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/e/4), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 55](/us/stat/124/55), provided that: “The amendments made by this subsection [amending this section] shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 [[Pub. L. 108–7, div. H](/us/pl/108/7/dH)].”

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7) effective Feb. 20, 2003, and applicable to fiscal year 2003 and each fiscal year thereafter, see [section 1907(i) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1907/i).

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

[Pub. L. 96–152, § 7](/us/pl/96/152/s7), Dec. 20, 1979, [93 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/93/1100), provided that: “This Act [enacting [section 1902 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1902) and amending this section] shall take effect on the first day of the second month after the month in which this Act is enacted [Dec. 1979].”

#### Short Title of 2021 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–77, § 1](/us/pl/117/77/s1), Dec. 22, 2021, [135 Stat. 1522](/us/stat/135/1522), provided that: “This Act [enacting [section 1901b of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1901b), amending sections 1970 and 1974 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 1970 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1970)] may be cited as the ‘Capitol Police Emergency Assistance Act of 2021’.”

#### Short Title of 2017 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–45, § 1](/us/pl/115/45/s1), Aug. 4, 2017, [131 Stat. 956](/us/stat/131/956), provided that: “This Act [amending sections 1951, 1952, and 1954 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Wounded Officers Recovery Act of 2017’.”

#### Short Title of 2010 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–145, § 1](/us/pl/111/145/s1), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 49](/us/stat/124/49), provided that: “This Act [see Tables for classification] may be cited as the ‘United States Capitol Police Administrative Technical Corrections Act of 2009’.”

#### Short Title of 2008 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–178, § 1](/us/pl/110/178/s1), Jan. 7, 2008, [121 Stat. 2546](/us/stat/121/2546), provided that: “This Act [enacting sections 141b and 143c of this title, amending sections 167i, 167j, 182b, 185, and 1961 of this title and sections 5101, 5102, and 5104 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, repealing sections 167 to 167h of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 167 and 182b of this title, and repealing provisions set out as notes under this section] may be cited as the ‘U.S. Capitol Police and Library of Congress Police Merger Implementation Act of 2007’.”

#### Short Title of 2007 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 1004(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s1004/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2227](/us/stat/121/2227), which provided that [section 1004 of Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161/s1004) could be cited as the “U.S. Capitol Police and Library of Congress Police Merger Implementation Act of 2007”, was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(d)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/d/1), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 54](/us/stat/124/54). For identical short title, see above.

#### Designation of Capitol Police Wellness Program

[Pub. L. 117–31, title III, § 301](/us/pl/117/31/tIII/s301), July 30, 2021, [135 Stat. 313](/us/stat/135/313), provided that: “(a) Application of Law.—The wellness program of the United States Capitol Police shall be known and designated as the ‘Howard C. Liebengood Center for Wellness’. “(b) Effective Date.—This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2021 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

#### Capitol Police Board

[Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1014](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1014), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 361](/us/stat/117/361), which related to composition, mission, and other aspects of the Capitol Police Board, was transferred to [section 1901a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1901a).

#### Transfer of Library of Congress Police to Capitol Police

[Pub. L. 110–178](/us/pl/110/178), §§ 2, 3, 8, Jan. 7, 2008, [121 Stat. 2546](/us/stat/121/2546), 2549, 2554, provided that: “SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL.“(a) Transfers.—“(1) Library of congress police employees.—Effective on the employee’s transfer date, each Library of Congress Police employee shall be transferred to the United States Capitol Police and shall become either a member or civilian employee of the Capitol Police, as determined by the Chief of the Capitol Police under subsection (b). “(2) Library of congress police civilian employees.—Effective on the employee’s transfer date, each Library of Congress Police civilian employee shall be transferred to the United States Capitol Police and shall become a civilian employee of the Capitol Police. “(b) Treatment of Library of Congress Police Employees.—“(1) Determination of status within capitol police.—“(A) Eligibility to serve as members of the capitol police.—A Library of Congress Police employee shall become a member of the Capitol Police on the employee’s transfer date if the Chief of the Capitol Police determines and issues a written certification that the employee meets each of the following requirements:“(i) Based on the assumption that such employee would perform a period of continuous Federal service after the transfer date, the employee would be entitled to an annuity for immediate retirement under section 8336(b) or 8412(b) of title 5, United States Code (as determined by taking into account paragraph (3)(A)), on the date such employee becomes 60 years of age. “(ii) During the transition period, the employee successfully completes training, as determined by the Chief of the Capitol Police. “(iii) The employee meets the qualifications required to be a member of the Capitol Police, as determined by the Chief of the Capitol Police. “(B) Service as civilian employee of capitol police.—If the Chief of the Capitol Police determines that a Library of Congress Police employee does not meet the eligibility requirements, the employee shall become a civilian employee of the Capitol Police on the employee’s transfer date. “(C) Finality of determinations.—Any determination of the Chief of the Capitol Police under this paragraph shall not be appealable or reviewable in any manner. “(D) Deadline for determinations.—The Chief of the Capitol Police shall complete the determinations required under this paragraph for all Library of Congress Police employees not later than September 30, 2009. “(2) Exemption from mandatory separation.—Section 8335(c) or 8425(c) of title 5, United States Code, shall not apply to any Library of Congress Police employee who becomes a member of the Capitol Police under this subsection, until the earlier of—“(A) the date on which the individual is entitled to an annuity for immediate retirement under section 8336(b) or 8412(b) of title 5, United States Code; or “(B) the date on which the individual—“(i) is 57 years of age or older; and “(ii) is entitled to an annuity for immediate retirement under section 8336(m) or 8412(d) of title 5, United States Code, (as determined by taking into account paragraph (3)(A)). “(3) Treatment of prior creditable service for retirement purposes.—“(A) Prior service for purposes of eligibility for immediate retirement as member of capitol police.—Any Library of Congress Police employee who becomes a member of the Capitol Police under this subsection shall be entitled to have any creditable service under section 8332 or 8411 of title 5, United States Code, that was accrued prior to becoming a member of the Capitol Police included in calculating the employee’s service as a member of the Capitol Police for purposes of section 8336(m) or 8412(d) of title 5, United States Code. “(B) Prior service for purposes of computation of annuity.—Any creditable service under section 8332 or 8411 of title 5, United States Code, of an individual who becomes a member of the Capitol Police under this subsection that was accrued prior to becoming a member of the Capitol Police—“(i) shall be treated and computed as employee service under section 8339 or section 8415 of such title; but “(ii) shall not be treated as service as a member of the Capitol Police or service as a congressional employee for purposes of applying any formula under section 8339(b), 8339(q), 8415(c), or 8415(d) of such title under which a percentage of the individual’s average pay is multiplied by the years (or other period) of such service. “(c) Duties of Employees Transferred to Civilian Positions.—“(1) Duties.—The duties of any individual who becomes a civilian employee of the Capitol Police under this section, including a Library of Congress Police civilian employee under subsection (a)(2) and a Library of Congress Police employee who becomes a civilian employee of the Capitol Police under subsection (b)(1)(B), shall be determined solely by the Chief of the Capitol Police, except that a Library of Congress Police civilian employee under subsection (a)(2) shall continue to support Library of Congress police operations until all Library of Congress Police employees are transferred to the United States Capitol Police under this section. “(2) Finality of determinations.—Any determination of the Chief of the Capitol Police under this subsection shall not be appealable or reviewable in any manner. “(d) Protecting Status of Transferred Employees.—“(1) Nonreduction in pay, rank, or grade.—The transfer of any individual under this section shall not cause that individual to be separated or reduced in basic pay, rank or grade. “(2) Leave and compensatory time.—Any annual leave, sick leave, or other leave, or compensatory time, to the credit of an individual transferred under this section shall be transferred to the credit of that individual as a member or an employee of the Capitol Police (as the case may be). The treatment of leave or compensatory time transferred under this section shall be governed by regulations of the Capitol Police Board. “(3) Prohibiting imposition of probationary period.—The Chief of the Capitol Police may not impose a period of probation with respect to the transfer of any individual who is transferred under this section. “(e) Rules of Construction Relating to Employee Representation.—“(1) Employee representation.—Nothing in this Act [see Short Title of 2008 Amendment note set out above] shall be construed to authorize any labor organization that represented an individual who was a Library of Congress police employee or a Library of Congress police civilian employee before the individual’s transfer date to represent that individual as a member of the Capitol Police or an employee of the Capitol Police after the individual’s transfer date. “(2) Agreements not applicable.—Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize any collective bargaining agreement (or any related court order, stipulated agreement, or agreement to the terms or conditions of employment) applicable to Library of Congress police employees or to Library of Congress police civilian employees to apply to members of the Capitol Police or to civilian employees of the Capitol Police. “(f) Rule of Construction Relating to Personnel Authority of the Chief of the Capitol Police.—Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect the authority of the Chief of the Capitol Police to—“(1) terminate the employment of a member of the Capitol Police or a civilian employee of the Capitol Police; or “(2) transfer any individual serving as a member of the Capitol Police or a civilian employee of the Capitol Police to another position with the Capitol Police. “(g) Transfer Date Defined.—In this Act, the term ‘transfer date’ means, with respect to an employee—“(1) in the case of a Library of Congress Police employee who becomes a member of the Capitol Police, the first day of the first pay period applicable to members of the United States Capitol Police which begins after the date on which the Chief of the Capitol Police issues the written certification for the employee under subsection (b)(1); “(2) in the case of a Library of Congress Police employee who becomes a civilian employee of the Capitol Police, the first day of the first pay period applicable to employees of the United States Capitol Police which begins after September 30, 2009; or “(3) in the case of a Library of Congress Police civilian employee, the first day of the first pay period applicable to employees of the United States Capitol Police which begins after September 30, 2008. “(h) Cancellation in Portion of Unobligated Balance of FEDLINK Revolving Fund.—Amounts available for obligation by the Librarian of Congress as of the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2008] from the unobligated balance in the revolving fund established under section 103 of the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 ([2 U.S.C. 182c](/us/usc/t2/s182c)) for the Federal Library and Information Network program of the Library of Congress and the Federal Research program of the Library of Congress are reduced by a total of $560,000, and the amount so reduced is hereby cancelled. “SEC. 3. TRANSITION PROVISIONS.“(a) Transfer and Allocations of Property and Appropriations.—“(1) In general.—Effective on the transfer date of any Library of Congress Police employee and Library of Congress Police civilian employee who is transferred under this Act [see Short Title of 2008 Amendment note set out above]—“(A) the assets, liabilities, contracts, property, and records associated with the employee shall be transferred to the Capitol Police; and “(B) the unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the employee shall be transferred to and made available under the appropriations accounts for the Capitol Police for ‘Salaries’ and ‘General Expenses’, as applicable. “(2) Joint review.—During the transition period, the Chief of the Capitol Police and the Librarian of Congress shall conduct a joint review of the assets, liabilities, contracts, property records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the transfer under this Act. “(b) Treatment of Alleged Violations of Certain Employment Laws With Respect to Transferred Individuals.—“(1) In general.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law and except as provided in paragraph (3), in the case of an alleged violation of any covered law (as defined in paragraph (4)) which is alleged to have occurred prior to the transfer date with respect to an individual who is transferred under this Act, and for which the individual has not exhausted all of the remedies available for the consideration of the alleged violation which are provided for employees of the Library of Congress under the covered law prior to the transfer date, the following shall apply:“(A) The individual may not initiate any procedure which is available for the consideration of the alleged violation of the covered law which is provided for employees of the Library of Congress under the covered law. “(B) To the extent that the individual has initiated any such procedure prior to the transfer date, the procedure shall terminate and have no legal effect. “(C) Subject to paragraph (2), the individual may initiate and participate in any procedure which is available for the resolution of grievances of officers and employees of the Capitol Police under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 ([2 U.S.C. 1301](/us/usc/t2/s1301) et seq.) to provide for consideration of the alleged violation. The previous sentence does not apply in the case of an alleged violation for which the individual exhausted all of the available remedies which are provided for employees of the Library of Congress under the covered law prior to the transfer date. “(2) Special rules for applying congressional accountability act of 1995.—In applying paragraph (1)(C) with respect to an individual to whom this subsection applies, for purposes of the consideration of the alleged violation under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995—“(A) the date of the alleged violation shall be the individual’s transfer date; “(B) notwithstanding the third sentence of section 402(a) of such Act ([2 U.S.C. 1402(a)](/us/usc/t2/s1402/a)), the individual’s request for counseling under such section shall be made not later than 60 days after the date of the alleged violation; and “(C) the employing office of the individual at the time of the alleged violation shall be the Capitol Police Board. “(3) Exception for alleged violations subject to hearing prior to transfer.—Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to an alleged violation for which a hearing has commenced in accordance with the covered law on or before the transfer date. “(4) Covered law defined.—In this subsection, a ‘covered law’ is any law for which the remedy for an alleged violation is provided for officers and employees of the Capitol Police under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 ([2 U.S.C. 1301](/us/usc/t2/s1301) et seq.). “(c) Availability of Detailees During Transition Period.—During the transition period, the Chief of the Capitol Police may detail additional members of the Capitol Police to the Library of Congress, without reimbursement. “(d) Effect on Existing Memorandum of Understanding.—The Memorandum of Understanding between the Library of Congress and the Capitol Police entered into on December 12, 2004, shall remain in effect during the transition period, subject to—“(1) the provisions of this Act; and “(2) such modifications as may be made in accordance with the modification and dispute resolution provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding, consistent with the provisions of this Act. “(e) Rule of Construction Relating to Personnel Authority of the Librarian of Congress.—Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect the authority of the Librarian of Congress to—“(1) terminate the employment of a Library of Congress Police employee or Library of Congress Police civilian employee; or “(2) transfer any individual serving in a Library of Congress Police employee position or Library of Congress Police civilian employee position to another position at the Library of Congress. “SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.“In this Act [see Short Title of 2008 Amendment note set out above]—“(1) the term ‘Act of August 4, 1950’ means the Act entitled ‘An Act relating to the policing of the buildings and grounds of the Library of Congress,’ ([2 U.S.C. 167](/us/usc/t2/s167) et seq.); “(2) the term ‘Library of Congress Police employee’ means an employee of the Library of Congress designated as police under the first section of the Act of August 4, 1950 ([2 U.S.C. 167](/us/usc/t2/s167)); “(3) the term ‘Library of Congress Police civilian employee’ means an employee of the Library of Congress Office of Security and Emergency Preparedness who provides direct administrative support to, and is supervised by, the Library of Congress Police, but shall not include an employee of the Library of Congress who performs emergency preparedness or collections control and preservation functions; and “(4) the term ‘transition period’ means the period the first day of which is the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2008] and the final day of which is September 30, 2009.”

Similar provisions were contained in [Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 1004(b)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s1004/b), (c), (h), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2227](/us/stat/121/2227), 2231, 2236, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(d)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/d/1), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 54](/us/stat/124/54).

[Pub. L. 108–83, title I, § 1006](/us/pl/108/83/tI/s1006), Sept. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 1023](/us/stat/117/1023), as amended by [Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 1002](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s1002), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3179](/us/stat/118/3179); [Pub. L. 109–55, title I, § 1006(a)](/us/pl/109/55/tI/s1006/a), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 576](/us/stat/119/576), related to the effective and efficient transfer of Library of Congress Police to Capitol Police under [section 1015 of Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7/s1015), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 1004(g)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s1004/g), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2236](/us/stat/121/2236), and [Pub. L. 110–178, § 7](/us/pl/110/178/s7), Jan. 7, 2008, [121 Stat. 2554](/us/stat/121/2554), effective Oct. 1, 2009. [Pub. L. 110–161, § 1004](/us/pl/110/161/s1004), was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(d)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/d/1), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 54](/us/stat/124/54).

[Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1015](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1015), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 362](/us/stat/117/362), related to the transfer of Library of Congress Police to the United States Capitol Police, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 1004(g)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s1004/g), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2236](/us/stat/121/2236), and [Pub. L. 110–178, § 7](/us/pl/110/178/s7), Jan. 7, 2008, [121 Stat. 2554](/us/stat/121/2554), effective Oct. 1, 2009. [Pub. L. 110–161, § 1004](/us/pl/110/161/s1004), was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–145, § 6(d)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s6/d/1), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 54](/us/stat/124/54).

#### Long Term Strategic Plan

[Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1019](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1019), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 369](/us/stat/117/369), provided that: “(a) Long Term Strategic Plan.—“(1) In general.—The Chief of the United States Capitol Police, in consultation with the Comptroller General, shall develop a long term strategic plan which outlines the goals and objectives of the Capitol Police. “(2) Annual update.—During the period in which the strategic plan developed under this subsection is in effect, the Chief shall annually update the plan. “(3) Period covered by plan.—The strategic plan under this subsection shall cover the first 5 fiscal years which begin after the plan is developed. “(b) Annual Performance Plan.—“(1) In general.—With respect to each year which is covered by the strategic plan developed under subsection (a), the Chief of the Capitol Police, in consultation with the Comptroller General, shall develop an annual performance plan for implementing the goals and objectives of the strategic plan during the year. “(2) Contents.—The annual performance plan developed under this subsection for a year shall include performance goals for each of the goals and objectives of the strategic plan which apply during the year, and shall include (to the extent practicable) quantifiable performance measures for determining the success of the Capitol Police in meeting each such performance goal. “(3) Evaluation by comptroller general.—The Comptroller General shall annually evaluate the implementation of the plan and the extent to which the Capitol Police have met the performance goals of the plan, and shall provide the results of the evaluation to the Capitol Police Board, the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate, the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate. “(c) Initial Action Plan.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 20, 2003], the Chief of the Capitol Police shall develop an initial action plan describing the policies, procedures, and actions the Chief will carry out to meet the requirements of this section and setting forth a timetable for carrying out each such policy, procedure, and action, and shall submit such plan (upon the approval of the Capitol Police Board) to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate, the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.”

#### Compensation of Assistant Chief of Capitol Police

[Pub. L. 107–117, div. B, § 907(b)](/us/pl/107/117/dB/s907/b), Jan. 10, 2002, [115 Stat. 2319](/us/stat/115/2319), as amended by [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1013(b)](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1013/b), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 361](/us/stat/117/361), provided that: “The annual rate of pay for the Assistant Chief of the Capitol Police shall be the amount equal to $1,000 less than the annual rate of pay in effect for the Chief of the Capitol Police.”

#### Selection of Privates

Similar provisions as to the selection of privates were contained in the following acts:

[June 8, 1942, ch. 396](/us/act/1942-06-08/ch396), [56 Stat. 340](/us/stat/56/340).

[July 1, 1941, ch. 268](/us/act/1941-07-01/ch268), [55 Stat. 456](/us/stat/55/456).

[June 18, 1940, ch. 396](/us/act/1940-06-18/ch396), [54 Stat. 471](/us/stat/54/471).

[June 16, 1939, ch. 208](/us/act/1939-06-16/ch208), [53 Stat. 831](/us/stat/53/831).

[May 17, 1938, ch. 236](/us/act/1938-05-17/ch236), [52 Stat. 389](/us/stat/52/389).

[May 18, 1937, ch. 223](/us/act/1937-05-18/ch223), [50 Stat. 178](/us/stat/50/178).

[Apr. 17, 1936, ch. 233](/us/act/1936-04-17/ch233), [49 Stat. 1223](/us/stat/49/1223).

[July 8, 1935, ch. 374](/us/act/1935-07-08/ch374), [49 Stat. 468](/us/stat/49/468).

[May 30, 1934, ch. 372](/us/act/1934-05-30/ch372), [48 Stat. 826](/us/stat/48/826).

[Feb. 28, 1933, ch. 134](/us/act/1933-02-28/ch134), [47 Stat. 1359](/us/stat/47/1359).

[June 30, 1932, ch. 314](/us/act/1932-06-30/ch314), [47 Stat. 390](/us/stat/47/390).

[Feb. 20, 1931, ch. 234](/us/act/1931-02-20/ch234), [46 Stat. 1182](/us/stat/46/1182).

[June 6, 1930, ch. 407](/us/act/1930-06-06/ch407), [46 Stat. 512](/us/stat/46/512).

[Feb. 28, 1929, ch. 367](/us/act/1929-02-28/ch367), [45 Stat. 1394](/us/stat/45/1394).

[May 14, 1928, ch. 551](/us/act/1928-05-14/ch551), [45 Stat. 524](/us/stat/45/524).

[Feb. 23, 1927, ch. 168](/us/act/1927-02-23/ch168), [44 Stat. 1154](/us/stat/44/1154).

[May 13, 1926, ch. 294](/us/act/1926-05-13/ch294), [44 Stat. 545](/us/stat/44/545).

[Mar. 4, 1925, ch. 549](/us/act/1925-03-04/ch549), [43 Stat. 1294](/us/stat/43/1294).

[June 7, 1924, ch. 303](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch303), [43 Stat. 586](/us/stat/43/586).

[Feb. 20, 1923, ch. 98](/us/act/1923-02-20/ch98), [42 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/42/1272).

[Mar. 20, 1922, ch. 103](/us/act/1922-03-20/ch103), [42 Stat. 429](/us/stat/42/429).

#### Capitol Police Civilian Support Positions With Respect to the House of Representatives

House Resolution No. 199, One Hundred Second Congress, Aug. 1, 1991, made permanent law [Pub. L. 102–392, title I, § 102](/us/pl/102/392/tI/s102), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1710](/us/stat/106/1710), and amended by [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 221(9)(B)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s221/9/B), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1749](/us/stat/110/1749), authorized Committee on House Oversight [now Committee on House Administration] of the House of Representatives to establish 114 civilian support positions for the Capitol Police, provided for functions, compensation, and classification of positions, provided procedures for appointments to positions and that as each position was filled there would be abolished one position of private on Capitol Police, provided that positions would be filled by individuals in Capitol Police positions so abolished, that all positions would be filled by the end of the One Hundred Second Congress, and that at least 50 of such positions would be filled not later than the end of the first session of such Congress, and authorized Committee on House Oversight [now Committee on House Administration] to prescribe regulations to carry out this provision.

#### Director of Employment Practices Under Capitol Police Board

House Resolution No. 420, One Hundred First Congress, June 26, 1990, made permanent law [Pub. L. 101–520, title I, § 105](/us/pl/101/520/tI/s105), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2262](/us/stat/104/2262), and amended by [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 221(9)(C)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s221/9/C), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1749](/us/stat/110/1749), established the position of Director of Employment Practices with respect to members of the Capitol Police, at the appropriate rate of pay under level HS–11 of the House Employees Schedule, with payment from amounts appropriated for the Capitol Police, such appointment to be made by the Capitol Police Board, subject to prior approval of the Committee on House Oversight [now Committee on House Administration], without regard to political affiliation and solely on basis of fitness to perform functions of the position.

#### General Counsel to Chief of Capitol Police

House Resolution No. 661, Ninety-fifth Congress, July 29, 1977, made permanent law [Pub. L. 95–391, title I, § 111](/us/pl/95/391/tI/s111), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 777](/us/stat/92/777), and amended by [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 221(9)(A)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s221/9/A), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1749](/us/stat/110/1749), which established the position of General Counsel to the Chief of the Capitol Police, the appropriate rate of compensation, and method of appointment, was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–145, § 3(a)(4)](/us/pl/111/145/s3/a/4), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 52](/us/stat/124/52).
