---
title: "§ 4866. Security training for personnel assigned to a high risk, high threat post"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4866"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4866"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–399, title IV, § 416](/us/pl/99/399/tIV/s416), as added [Pub. L. 114–323, title I, § 121(a)](/us/pl/114/323/tI/s121/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1913](/us/stat/130/1913).)"
---
# § 4866. Security training for personnel assigned to a high risk, high threat post

##### § 4866. Security training for personnel assigned to a high risk, high threat post

(a) In general Individuals assigned permanently to or who are in long-term temporary duty status as designated by the Secretary of State at a high risk, high threat post shall receive security training described in subsection (b) on a mandatory basis in order to prepare such individuals for living and working at such posts.

(b) Security training described Security training referred to in subsection (a)—

(1) is training to improve basic knowledge and skills; and

(2) may include—

(A) an ability to recognize, avoid, and respond to potential terrorist situations, including a complex attack;

(B) conducting surveillance detection;

(C) providing emergency medical care;

(D) ability to detect the presence of improvised explosive devices;

(E) minimal firearms familiarization; and

(F) defensive driving maneuvers.

(c) Effective date The requirements of this section shall take effect upon December 16, 2016.

(d) Definitions In this section and [section 4867 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4867):

(1) Complex attack The term “complex attack” has the meaning given such term by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, as follows: “An attack conducted by multiple hostile elements which employ at least two distinct classes of weapon systems (i.e., indirect fire and direct fire, improvised explosive devices, and surface to air fire).”.

(2) High risk, high threat post The term “high risk, high threat post” has the meaning given such term in [section 4803 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4803).

*([Pub. L. 99–399, title IV, § 416](/us/pl/99/399/tIV/s416), as added [Pub. L. 114–323, title I, § 121(a)](/us/pl/114/323/tI/s121/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1913](/us/stat/130/1913).)*
