---
title: "§ 1905. List of laws inapplicable to contracts or subcontracts not greater than simplified acquisition threshold"
identifier: "USC-T41-S1905"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section1905"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "41"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3722](/us/stat/124/3722).)"
---
# § 1905. List of laws inapplicable to contracts or subcontracts not greater than simplified acquisition threshold

##### § 1905. List of laws inapplicable to contracts or subcontracts not greater than simplified acquisition threshold

(a) Definition.— In this section, the term “Council” has the meaning given that term in [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s1301).

(b) Inclusion in Federal Acquisition Regulation.—

(1) In general.— The Federal Acquisition Regulation shall include a list of provisions of law that are inapplicable to contracts or subcontracts in amounts not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold. A provision of law properly included on the list pursuant to paragraph (2) does not apply to contracts or subcontracts in amounts not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold that are made by an executive agency. This section does not render a provision of law not included on the list inapplicable to contracts and subcontracts in amounts not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold.

(2) Laws enacted after october 13, 1994.— A provision of law described in subsection (c) that is enacted after October 13, 1994, shall be included on the list of inapplicable provisions of laws required by paragraph (1) unless the Council makes a written determination that it would not be in the best interest of the Federal Government to exempt contracts or subcontracts in amounts not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold from the applicability of the provision.

(c) Covered Law.— A provision of law referred to in subsection (b)(2) is a provision of law that the Council determines sets forth policies, procedures, requirements, or restrictions for the procurement of property or services by the Federal Government, except for a provision of law that—

(1) provides for criminal or civil penalties; or

(2) specifically refers to this section and provides that, notwithstanding this section, it shall be applicable to contracts or subcontracts in amounts not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold.

(d) Petition.— A person may petition the Administrator to take appropriate action when a provision of law described in subsection (c) is not included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law as required by subsection (b) and the Council has not made a written determination pursuant to subsection (b)(2). The Administrator shall revise the Federal Acquisition Regulation to include the provision on the list of inapplicable provisions of law unless the Council makes a determination pursuant to subsection (b)(2) within 60 days after the petition is received.

*([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3722](/us/stat/124/3722).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1905(a) | no source. |  |
| 1905(b)–(d) | 41:429. | Pub. L. 93–400, § 33, as added Pub. L. 103–355, title IV, § 4101, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3339. |
