---
title: "§ 1167. Collective bargaining agreements"
identifier: "USC-T11-S1167"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section1167"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2642](/us/stat/92/2642); [Pub. L. 103–394, title V, § 501(d)(35)](/us/pl/103/394/tV/s501/d/35), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4146](/us/stat/108/4146).)"
---
# § 1167. Collective bargaining agreements

##### § 1167. Collective bargaining agreements

Notwithstanding [section 365 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s365), neither the court nor the trustee may change the wages or working conditions of employees of the debtor established by a collective bargaining agreement that is subject to the Railway Labor Act except in accordance with section 6 of such Act.

*([Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2642](/us/stat/92/2642); [Pub. L. 103–394, title V, § 501(d)(35)](/us/pl/103/394/tV/s501/d/35), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4146](/us/stat/108/4146).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### senate report no. 95–989

Section 1176 [enacted as section 1167] is derived from present section 77(n) [section 205(n) of former title 11]. It provides that notwithstanding the general section governing the rejection of executory contracts (section 365), neither the court nor the trustee may change the wages or working conditions of employees of the debtor established by a collective bargaining agreement that is subject to the Railway Labor Act [[45 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t45/s151) et seq.], except in accordance with section 6 of that Act [[45 U.S.C. 156](/us/usc/t45/s156)]. As reported by the subcommittee this section provided that wages and salaries of rail employees could not be affected by the trustee, but that work rules could be rejected by the trustee. The reorganization court was given the authority to review the trustee’s decisions and to settle any disputes arising from the rejection. This provision was withdrawn by the full committee, and hearings will be conducted next year by the Human Resources Committee in the area of rail labor contracts and the trustee’s ability to reject them in a bankruptcy sit­uation.

#### house report no. 95–595

Section 1167 is derived from present section 77(n) [section 205(n) of former title 11]. It provides that notwithstanding the general section governing the rejection of executory contracts (section 365), neither the court nor the trustee may change the wages or working conditions of employees of the debtor established by a collective bargaining agreement that is subject to the Railway Labor Act [[45 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t45/s151) et seq.], except in accordance with section 6 of that Act [[45 U.S.C. 156](/us/usc/t45/s156)]. The subject of railway labor is too delicate and has too long a history for this code to upset established relationships. The balance has been struck over the years. This provision continues that balance unchanged.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Railway Labor Act, referred to in text, is [act May 20, 1926, ch. 347](/us/act/1926-05-20/ch347), [44 Stat. 577](/us/stat/44/577), which is classified principally to chapter 8 (§ 151 et seq.) of Title 45, Railroads. Section 6 of the Act is classified to [section 156 of Title 45](/us/usc/t45/s156). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 151 of Title 45](/us/usc/t45/s151) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–394](/us/pl/103/394) struck out “([45 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t45/s151) et seq.)” after “Railway Labor Act” and “([45 U.S.C. 156](/us/usc/t45/s156))” after “such Act”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–394](/us/pl/103/394) effective Oct. 22, 1994, and not applicable with respect to cases commenced under this title before Oct. 22, 1994, see [section 702 of Pub. L. 103–394](/us/pl/103/394/s702), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).
