---
title: "§ 193. Claims and rights under land laws not affected; rights-of-way for irrigation and other purposes"
identifier: "USC-T16-S193"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section193"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Jan. 26, 1915, ch. 19, § 2](/us/act/1915-01-26/ch19/s2), [38 Stat. 800](/us/stat/38/800); [Jan. 26, 1931, ch. 47, § 7](/us/act/1931-01-26/ch47/s7), [46 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/46/1044).)"
---
# § 193. Claims and rights under land laws not affected; rights-of-way for irrigation and other purposes

##### § 193. Claims and rights under land laws not affected; rights-of-way for irrigation and other purposes

Nothing herein contained shall affect any valid existing claim, location, or entry under the land laws of the United States, whether for homestead, mineral, right of way, or any other purpose whatsoever, or shall affect the rights of any such claimant, locator, or entryman to the full use and enjoyment of his land. Whenever consistent with the primary purposes of the park the Act of February fifteenth, nineteen hundred and one,11 See References in Text note below. applicable to the location of rights of way in certain national parks and the national forests for irrigation and other purposes, shall be and remain applicable to the lands included within the park.

*([Jan. 26, 1915, ch. 19, § 2](/us/act/1915-01-26/ch19/s2), [38 Stat. 800](/us/stat/38/800); [Jan. 26, 1931, ch. 47, § 7](/us/act/1931-01-26/ch47/s7), [46 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/46/1044).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Herein, referred to in text, means act Jan. 26, 1915, which is classified to sections 191 and 193 to 195a of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Act of February fifteenth, nineteen hundred and one, referred to in text, is [act Feb. 15, 1901, ch. 372](/us/act/1901-02-15/ch372), [31 Stat. 790](/us/stat/31/790), which is classified to [section 959 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s959), Public Lands. The Act, insofar as it related to National Park System units, was repealed and restated as [section 100902(a) of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100902/a), National Park Service and Related Programs, by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3272.

#### Amendments

1931—Act Jan. 26, 1931, repealed provision which authorized granting of easements or rights of way for steam, electric, or similar transportation upon or across the park.
