---
title: "§ 6130. Authorization of workforce development and training partnership programs within National Nuclear Security Administration"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6130"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6130"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1366](/us/stat/139/1366).)"
---
# § 6130. Authorization of workforce development and training partnership programs within National Nuclear Security Administration

##### § 6130. Authorization of workforce development and training partnership programs within National Nuclear Security Administration

(a) Authority.— The Administrator for Nuclear Security may authorize management and operating contractors at covered facilities to develop and implement workforce development and training partnership programs to further the education and training of employees or prospective employees of such management and operating contractors to meet the requirements of section 6128.

(b) Capacity.— To carry out subsection (a), a management and operating contractor at a covered facility may provide funding through grants or other means to cover the costs of the development and implementation of a workforce development and training partnership program authorized under such subsection, including costs relating to curriculum development, hiring of teachers, procurement of equipment and machinery, use of facilities or other properties, and provision of scholarships and fellowships.

(c) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “covered facility” means—

(A) Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico; or

(B) the Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina.

(2) The term “prospective employee” means an individual who has applied (or who, based on their field of study and experience, is likely to apply) for a position of employment with a management and operating contractor to support plutonium pit production at a covered facility.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1366](/us/stat/139/1366).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 3126 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s3126), which was set out as a note under [section 2538a of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2538a), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(11)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/11).
