---
title: "§ 300aa–10. Establishment of program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300aa–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300aa–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXI, § 2110, as added [Pub. L. 99–660, title III, § 311(a)](/us/pl/99/660/tIII/s311/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3758](/us/stat/100/3758); amended [Pub. L. 101–239, title VI, § 6601(b)](/us/pl/101/239/tVI/s6601/b), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2285](/us/stat/103/2285).)"
---
# § 300aa–10. Establishment of program

##### § 300aa–10. Establishment of program

(a) Program established There is established the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program to be administered by the Secretary under which compensation may be paid for a vaccine-related injury or death.

(b) Attorney’s obligation It shall be the ethical obligation of any attorney who is consulted by an individual with respect to a vaccine-related injury or death to advise such individual that compensation may be available under the program 11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. for such injury or death.

(c) Publicity The Secretary shall undertake reasonable efforts to inform the public of the availability of the Program.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXI, § 2110, as added [Pub. L. 99–660, title III, § 311(a)](/us/pl/99/660/tIII/s311/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3758](/us/stat/100/3758); amended [Pub. L. 101–239, title VI, § 6601(b)](/us/pl/101/239/tVI/s6601/b), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2285](/us/stat/103/2285).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 300aa–10, act July 1, 1944, § 2111, was successively renumbered by subsequent acts and transferred, see [section 238h of this title](/us/usc/t42/s238h).

A prior section 2110 of act July 1, 1944, was successively renumbered by subsequent acts and transferred, see [section 238g of this title](/us/usc/t42/s238g).

#### Amendments

1989—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 101–239](/us/pl/101/239) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1989 Amendment

[Section 6601(s) of Pub. L. 101–239](/us/pl/101/239/s6601/s), as amended by [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516), provided that: “(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 300aa–11 to 300aa–17, 300aa–21, 300aa–23, 300aa–26, and 300aa–27 of this title] shall apply as follows:“(A) Petitions filed after the date of enactment of this section [Dec. 19, 1989] shall proceed under the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program under title XXI of the Public Health Service Act [[42 U.S.C. 300aa–1](/us/usc/t42/s300aa–1) et seq.] as amended by this section. “(B) Petitions currently pending in which the evidentiary record is closed shall continue to proceed under the Program in accordance with the law in effect before the date of the enactment of this section, except that if the United States Court of Federal Claims is to review the findings of fact and conclusions of law of a special master on such a petition, the court may receive further evidence in conducting such review. “(C) Petitions currently pending in which the evidentiary record is not closed shall proceed under the Program in accordance with the law as amended by this section. All pending cases which will proceed under the Program as amended by this section shall be immediately suspended for 30 days to enable the special masters and parties to prepare for proceeding under the Program as amended by this section. In determining the 240-day period prescribed by section 2112(d) of the Public Health Service Act [[42 U.S.C. 300aa–12(d)](/us/usc/t42/s300aa–12/d)], as amended by this section, or the 420-day period prescribed by section 2121(b) of such Act [[42 U.S.C. 300aa–21(b)](/us/usc/t42/s300aa–21/b)], as so amended, any period of suspension under the preceding sentence shall be excluded. “(2) The amendments to section 2115 of the Public Health Service Act [[42 U.S.C. 300aa–15](/us/usc/t42/s300aa–15)] shall apply to all pending and subsequently filed petitions.”

#### Effective Date

Subpart effective Oct. 1, 1988, see [section 323 of Pub. L. 99–660](/us/pl/99/660/s323), as amended, set out as a note under [section 300aa–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300aa–1).
