---
title: "§ 7435. Low emissions electricity program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7435"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7435"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title I, § 135, as added [Pub. L. 117–169, title VI, § 60107](/us/pl/117/169/tVI/s60107), Aug. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2069](/us/stat/136/2069).)"
---
# § 7435. Low emissions electricity program

##### § 7435. Low emissions electricity program

(a) Appropriation In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Administrator for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2031—

(1) $17,000,000 for consumer-related education and partnerships with respect to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that result from domestic electricity generation and use;

(2) $17,000,000 for education, technical assistance, and partnerships within low-income and disadvantaged communities with respect to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that result from domestic electricity generation and use;

(3) $17,000,000 for industry-related outreach, technical assistance, and partnerships with respect to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that result from domestic electricity generation and use;

(4) $17,000,000 for outreach and technical assistance to, and partnerships with, State, Tribal, and local governments with respect to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that result from domestic electricity generation and use;

(5) $1,000,000 to assess, not later than 1 year after August 16, 2022, the reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that result from changes in domestic electricity generation and use that are anticipated to occur on an annual basis through fiscal year 2031; and

(6) $18,000,000 to ensure that reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are achieved through use of the existing authorities of this chapter, incorporating the assessment under paragraph (5).

(b) Administration of funds Of the amounts made available under subsection (a), the Administrator shall reserve 2 percent for the administrative costs necessary to carry out activities pursuant to that subsection.

(c) Definition of greenhouse gas In this section, the term “greenhouse gas” means the air pollutants carbon dioxide, hydrofluorocarbons, methane, nitrous oxide, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride.

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title I, § 135, as added [Pub. L. 117–169, title VI, § 60107](/us/pl/117/169/tVI/s60107), Aug. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2069](/us/stat/136/2069).)*
