---
title: "§ 12605. Presentation of United States flag: members transferred from an active status or discharged after completion of eligibility for retired pay"
identifier: "USC-T10-S12605"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section12605"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VI, § 652(a)(1)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tVI/s652/a/1), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 664](/us/stat/113/664).)"
---
# § 12605. Presentation of United States flag: members transferred from an active status or discharged after completion of eligibility for retired pay

##### § 12605. Presentation of United States flag: members transferred from an active status or discharged after completion of eligibility for retired pay

(a) Presentation of Flag.— Upon the transfer from an active status or discharge of a Reserve who has completed the years of service required for eligibility for retired pay under chapter 1223 of this title, the Secretary concerned shall present a United States flag to the member.

(b) Multiple Presentations Not Authorized.— A member is not eligible for presentation of a flag under subsection (a) if the member has previously been presented a flag under this section or any provision of law providing for the presentation of a United States flag incident to release from active service for retirement.

(c) No Cost to Recipient.— The presentation of a flag under this section shall be at no cost to the recipient.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VI, § 652(a)(1)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tVI/s652/a/1), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 664](/us/stat/113/664).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VI, § 652(d)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tVI/s652/d), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 665](/us/stat/113/665), provided that: “[Section 12605 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s12605), United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), section 213 of the Public Health Service Act [[42 U.S.C. 214](/us/usc/t42/s214)] (as added by subsection (b)), and section 25 of the Coast and Geodetic Survey Commissioned Officers’ Act of 1948 [[33 U.S.C. 853v](/us/usc/t33/s853v)] (as added by subsection (c)) shall apply with respect to releases from service described in those sections on or after October 1, 1999.”
