---
title: "§ 18777. Harmonization of efforts and data"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18777"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18777"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title IV, § 40419](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tIV/s40419), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1047](/us/stat/135/1047).)"
---
# § 18777. Harmonization of efforts and data

##### § 18777. Harmonization of efforts and data

(1) the data collection efforts of the Administrator, including any data collection required under this subchapter, with the data collection efforts of—

(A) the Environmental Protection Agency, as the Administrator determines to be appropriate;

(B) other relevant Federal agencies, as the Administrator determines to be appropriate; and

(C) State or regional energy credit registries, as the Administrator determines to be appropriate;

(2) the data collected under this subchapter, including the operating data on electricity generation collected under [section 18772(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18772/a), with data collected by the entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph (1), including any measurements of greenhouse gas and other pollutant emissions collected by the Environmental Protection Agency, as the Administrator determines to be appropriate; and

(3) the efforts of the Administrator to identify and report relevant impacts, opportunities, and patterns with respect to energy use, including the identification of community-level economic and environmental impacts required under [section 18773(b)(1)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18773/b/1/C), with the efforts of the Environmental Protection Agency and other relevant Federal agencies, as determined by the Administrator, to identify similar impacts, opportunities, and patterns.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title IV, § 40419](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tIV/s40419), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1047](/us/stat/135/1047).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), including authority of Secretary of Labor, see [section 18851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18851).
