---
title: "§ 1226. Motor vehicle franchise contract dispute resolution process"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1226"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1226"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title I, § 11028](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tI/s11028), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1835](/us/stat/116/1835).)"
---
# § 1226. Motor vehicle franchise contract dispute resolution process

##### § 1226. Motor vehicle franchise contract dispute resolution process

(a) Election of arbitration

(1) Definitions For purposes of this subsection—

(A) the term “motor vehicle” has the meaning given such term in [section 30102(6) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s30102/6); 11 See References in Text note below. and

(B) the term “motor vehicle franchise contract” means a contract under which a motor vehicle manufacturer, importer, or distributor sells motor vehicles to any other person for resale to an ultimate purchaser and authorizes such other person to repair and service the manufacturer’s motor vehicles.

(2) Consent required Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever a motor vehicle franchise contract provides for the use of arbitration to resolve a controversy arising out of or relating to such contract, arbitration may be used to settle such controversy only if after such controversy arises all parties to such controversy consent in writing to use arbitration to settle such controversy.

(3) Explanation required Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever arbitration is elected to settle a dispute under a motor vehicle franchise contract, the arbitrator shall provide the parties to such contract with a written explanation of the factual and legal basis for the award.

(b) Application Subsection (a) shall apply to contracts entered into, amended, altered, modified, renewed, or extended after November 2, 2002.

*([Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title I, § 11028](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tI/s11028), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1835](/us/stat/116/1835).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 30102(6) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s30102/6), referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), probably should be “[section 30102(a)(6) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s30102/a/6)”, which was redesignated [section 30102(a)(7) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s30102/a/7) by [section 24109(b)(2) of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s24109/b/2), div. B, title XXIV, Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1706](/us/stat/129/1706).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, and not as part of [act Aug. 8, 1956, ch. 1038](/us/act/1956-08-08/ch1038), which comprises this chapter.
