---
title: "§ 60101. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T34-S60101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section60101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–560, § 2](/us/pl/106/560/s2), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2784](/us/stat/114/2784).)"
---
# § 60101. Findings

##### § 60101. Findings

(1) Increasingly, States are turning to private prisoner transport companies as an alternative to their own personnel or the United States Marshals Service when transporting violent prisoners.

(2) The transport process can last for days if not weeks, as violent prisoners are dropped off and picked up at a network of hubs across the country.

(3) Escapes by violent prisoners during transport by private prisoner transport companies have occurred.

(4) Oversight by the Attorney General is required to address these problems.

(5) While most governmental entities may prefer to use, and will continue to use, fully trained and sworn law enforcement officers when transporting violent prisoners, fiscal or logistical concerns may make the use of highly specialized private prisoner transport companies an option. Nothing in sections 60101 to 60104 of this title should be construed to mean that governmental entities should contract with private prisoner transport companies to move violent prisoners; however when a government entity opts to use a private prisoner transport company to move violent prisoners, then the company should be subject to regulation in order to enhance public safety.

*([Pub. L. 106–560, § 2](/us/pl/106/560/s2), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2784](/us/stat/114/2784).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13726 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13726), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of [Pub. L. 106–560](/us/pl/106/560), which is classified to sections 60101 to 60104 of this title, as the “Interstate Transportation of Dangerous Criminals Act of 2000” and also as “Jeanna’s Act”, see [section 1 of Pub. L. 106–560](/us/pl/106/560/s1), set out as a Short Title of 2000 Act note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).

#### Guidelines for States Regarding Infectious Diseases in Correctional Institutions

[Pub. L. 105–370, § 2(c)](/us/pl/105/370/s2/c), Nov. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 3375](/us/stat/112/3375), provided that: “Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 12, 1998], the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall provide to the several States proposed guidelines for the prevention, detection, and treatment of incarcerated persons and correctional employees who have, or may be exposed to, infectious diseases in correctional institutions.”
