---
title: "§ 295. Conditions upon designation and assignment"
identifier: "USC-T28-S295"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section295"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 901](/us/stat/62/901); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 39(d)](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s39/d), [68 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/68/1240); [July 14, 1956, ch. 589, § 3(b)](/us/act/1956-07-14/ch589/s3/b), [70 Stat. 532](/us/stat/70/532); [Pub. L. 85–755, § 6](/us/pl/85/755/s6), Aug. 25, 1958, [72 Stat. 850](/us/stat/72/850); [Pub. L. 95–598, title II, § 207](/us/pl/95/598/tII/s207), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2660](/us/stat/92/2660).)"
---
# § 295. Conditions upon designation and assignment

##### § 295. Conditions upon designation and assignment

No designation and assignment of a circuit or district judge in active service shall be made without the consent of the chief judge or judicial council of the circuit from which the judge is to be designated and assigned. No designation and assignment of a judge of any other court of the United States in active service shall be made without the consent of the chief judge of such court.

All designations and assignments of justices and judges shall be filed with the clerks and entered on the minutes of the courts from and to which made.

The Chief Justice of the United States, a circuit justice or a chief judge of a circuit may make new designation and assignments in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and may revoke those previously made by him.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 901](/us/stat/62/901); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 39(d)](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s39/d), [68 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/68/1240); [July 14, 1956, ch. 589, § 3(b)](/us/act/1956-07-14/ch589/s3/b), [70 Stat. 532](/us/stat/70/532); [Pub. L. 85–755, § 6](/us/pl/85/755/s6), Aug. 25, 1958, [72 Stat. 850](/us/stat/72/850); [Pub. L. 95–598, title II, § 207](/us/pl/95/598/tII/s207), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2660](/us/stat/92/2660).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., §§ 17, 20 ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231), §§ 13, 16, [36 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/36/1089); [Sept. 14, 1922, ch. 306, § 3](/us/act/1922-09-14/ch306/s3), [42 Stat. 839](/us/stat/42/839); [Aug. 24, 1937, ch. 754, § 4](/us/act/1937-08-24/ch754/s4), [50 Stat. 753](/us/stat/50/753); [Dec. 29, 1942, ch. 835](/us/act/1942-12-29/ch835), §§ 1, 4, [56 Stat. 1094](/us/stat/56/1094), 1095).

This section consolidates and simplifies provisions of sections 17 and 20 of title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., relating to conditions upon designation and assignment as well as those applicable to filing, revoking and making new designations.

Other provisions of [section 17 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s17), U.S.C., 1940 ed., are incorporated in section 291, 292, and 296 of this title.

The reference in said section 20 to senior Associate Judge was omitted. (See Reviser’s Note under [section 291 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s291).)

The terms “chief judge” and “chief judge of a circuit” were substituted for “senior circuit judge”. (See Reviser’s Note under [section 136 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s136).)

The alternative provision for approval by the judicial council of the circuit was inserted to conform with [section 332 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s332).

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598) directed the amendment of section by substituting “district, or bankruptcy” for “or district”, which amendment did not become effective pursuant to [section 402(b) of Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598/s402/b), as amended, set out as an Effective Date note preceding [section 101 of Title 11](/us/usc/t11/s101), Bankruptcy.

1958—[Pub. L. 85–755](/us/pl/85/755) substituted “of any other court of the United States” for “of the Customs Court” in first par.

1956—Act July 14, 1956, provided that no designation and assignment of a judge of the Customs Court in active service shall be made without the consent of the chief judge of the court.

1954—Act Sept. 3, 1954, made it clear that the section applies only to the assignment of circuit and district judges in active service.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Jurisdiction of United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals

Amendment by [Pub. L. 85–755](/us/pl/85/755) not limiting or altering the jurisdiction of the United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals [now United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit], see [section 7 of Pub. L. 85–755](/us/pl/85/755/s7), set out as a note under [section 291 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s291).

#### Limitation or Alteration of Jurisdiction

Amendment by act July 14, 1956, not to be construed as limiting or altering the jurisdiction heretofore conferred upon the Customs Court [now United States Court of International Trade], see section 4 of act July 14, 1956, set out as a note under [section 251 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s251).
