---
title: "§ 1833. Lighting, heating, and ventilating House of Representatives"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1833"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1833"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1877, ch. 105](/us/act/1877-03-03/ch105), [19 Stat. 348](/us/stat/19/348); [Mar. 3, 1881, ch. 130, § 1](/us/act/1881-03-03/ch130/s1), [21 Stat. 388](/us/stat/21/388).)"
---
# § 1833. Lighting, heating, and ventilating House of Representatives

##### § 1833. Lighting, heating, and ventilating House of Representatives

The electrician, together with everything pertaining to the electrical machinery and apparatus, and the ventilation and heating of the House of Representatives, and all laborers and others connected with the lighting, heating, and ventilating thereof, shall be subject exclusively to the orders, and in all respects under the direction, of the Architect of the Capitol, subject to the control of the Speaker; and no removal or appointment shall be made except with his approval. And all engineers and others who are engaged in heating and ventilating the House shall be subject to the orders, and in all respects under the direction, of the Architect of the Capitol, subject to the control of the Speaker; and no removal or appointment shall be made except with his approval.

*([Mar. 3, 1877, ch. 105](/us/act/1877-03-03/ch105), [19 Stat. 348](/us/stat/19/348); [Mar. 3, 1881, ch. 130, § 1](/us/act/1881-03-03/ch130/s1), [21 Stat. 388](/us/stat/21/388).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 167 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

Section, except the words “and the ventilation and heating of the House of Representatives,” is based on act Mar. 3, 1881, popularly known as the “Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Appropriation Act”. The excepted words were based on act Mar. 3, 1877, popularly known as the “Sundry Civil Appropriation Act, fiscal year 1878”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Change of name of Architect of the Capitol, functions abolished, transferred, etc., by prior acts, see Prior Provisions and Change of Name notes set out under former [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1801).
