---
title: "§ 4337. Intercustodial conflicts involving enemy property; authority of President to conclude; delegation of authority"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4337"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4337"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Sept. 28, 1950, ch. 1094](/us/act/1950-09-28/ch1094), [64 Stat. 1079](/us/stat/64/1079).)"
---
# § 4337. Intercustodial conflicts involving enemy property; authority of President to conclude; delegation of authority

##### § 4337. Intercustodial conflicts involving enemy property; authority of President to conclude; delegation of authority

(1) The authority granted in this section shall extend only to agreements with governments with which the United States was not at war in World War II.

(2) Such agreements shall be in accordance with the policy of protecting and making available for utilization the American and nonenemy interests in such property and further the elimination of enemy interests in such property and the efficient administration and liquidation of enemy property in the United States.

(3) For the purposes of this section, the United States as to any intergovernmental agreements hereafter negotiated shall seek treatment equal to that accorded United States nationals for persons who, although citizens or residents of any enemy country before or during World War II, were deprived of full rights of citizenship or substantially deprived of liberty by laws, decrees, or regulations of such enemy country discriminating against racial, religious, or political groups: *Provided*, That on September 28, 1950, such persons were (1) permanent residents of the United States and (2) had declared their intention to become citizens of the United States in conformity with the provisions of the Nationality Act of 1940, as amended; and that such persons shall have acquired citizenship of the United States prior to the effective date of any intergovernmental agreement hereafter negotiated.

(4) Reimbursement to the United States by other governments pursuant to such agreements shall be administered as vested property: *Provided*, That nothing contained in this section shall hinder, restrict or limit the payment of claims from the War Claims Fund established by [section 4110 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4110), as amended.

*([Sept. 28, 1950, ch. 1094](/us/act/1950-09-28/ch1094), [64 Stat. 1079](/us/stat/64/1079).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Nationality Act of 1940, referred to in par. (3), is [act Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 876](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch876), [54 Stat. 1137](/us/stat/54/1137), which was classified principally to chapter 11 (§ 501 et seq.) of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality, prior to repeal by [act June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title IV, § 403(a)(42)](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477/tIV/s403/a/42), [66 Stat. 280](/us/stat/66/280). See section 1101 et seq. of Title 8.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 40 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was not enacted as part of the Trading with the enemy Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 10244. Authorization of Secretary of State and Attorney General To Perform Certain Functions

Ex. Ord. No. 10244, May 17, 1951, 16 F.R. 4639, provided:

1. The Secretary of State and the Attorney General are hereby jointly designated as the officers authorized to conclude and give effect to agreements relating to the settlement of intercustodial conflicts involving enemy property made pursuant to the said act of September 28, 1950 [[50 U.S.C. 4337](/us/usc/t50/s4337)], and to exercise all powers incident thereto which are conferred by such act, including, without limitation, the powers to receive, transfer, release or return property, interests therein, or proceeds thereof.

2. It is the policy of this order that the Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Attorney General, shall perform all functions necessary or appropriate to give effect to any agreement made pursuant to the said act of September 28, 1950, with relation to the protection of American interests in property outside the United States, and that the Attorney General, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall perform all functions necessary or appropriate to give effect to any such agreement with relation to property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and that all other functions relating to the effectuation of any such agreement shall be performed as may be agreed by the Secretary of State and the Attorney General. However, no action taken hereunder by either the Secretary of State or the Attorney General shall be considered to be invalid on the ground that under the provisions of this order such action was within the jurisdiction of the Secretary of State rather than the Attorney General, or vice versa, or that concurrence was not obtained, or that such action was not joint.

3. The Secretary of State and the Attorney General may each delegate to the other or to any other officer, person, or agency within his respective department such of his functions under this order as he may deem necessary.

4. Any money, property, or interest received as reimbursement by the United States by virtue of any agreement made pursuant to the said act of September 28, 1950, shall be administered and disposed of by the Attorney General as vested property pursuant to the said Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended [[50 U.S.C. 4301](/us/usc/t50/s4301) et seq.]. Any other money, property, or interest received by the Secretary of State or the Attorney General pursuant to any such agreement shall be administered and disposed of pursuant to the provisions of such agreement.
