---
title: "§ 18302. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–267, § 3](/us/pl/111/267/s3), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2808](/us/stat/124/2808).)"
---
# § 18302. Definitions

##### § 18302. Definitions

(1) Administrator The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

(2) Appropriate committees of Congress The term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—

(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Science 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “and Technology”. of the House of Representatives.

(3) Cis-lunar space The term “cis-lunar space” means the region of space from the Earth out to and including the region around the surface of the Moon.

(4) Deep space The term “deep space” means the region of space beyond cis-lunar space.

(5) ISS The term “ISS” means the International Space Station.

(6) NASA The term “NASA” means the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

(7) Near-Earth space The term “near-Earth space” means the region of space that includes low-Earth orbit and extends out to and includes geo-synchronous orbit.

(8) NOAA The term “NOAA” means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(9) OSTP The term “OSTP” means the Office of Science and Technology Policy.

(10) Space Launch System The term “Space Launch System” means the follow-on government-owned civil launch system developed, managed, and operated by NASA to serve as a key component to expand human presence beyond low-Earth orbit.

*([Pub. L. 111–267, § 3](/us/pl/111/267/s3), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2808](/us/stat/124/2808).)*
