---
title: "§ 5507. Transfers of amounts appropriated for House"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–392, title I, § 101](/us/pl/102/392/tI/s101), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/106/1709); [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 109(a)](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s109/a), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 355](/us/stat/117/355); [Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI), §§ 103(a), 105(a), (b), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 817](/us/stat/123/817), 818; [Pub. L. 111–68, div. A, title I](/us/pl/111/68/dA/tI), §§ 104(a), 1304(d), Oct. 1, 2009, [123 Stat. 2029](/us/stat/123/2029), 2035; [P"
---
# § 5507. Transfers of amounts appropriated for House

##### § 5507. Transfers of amounts appropriated for House

(a) Transfers among categories of allowances and expenses Amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for the House of Representatives under the heading “allowances and expenses” may be transferred among and merged with the various categories of allowances and expenses under such heading, effective upon the expiration of the 21-day period (or such alternative period that may be imposed by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives) which begins on the date such Committee has been notified of the transfer.

(b) Transfers among offices and activities Amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for the House of Representatives under the heading “salaries, officers and employees” may be transferred among and merged with the various offices and activities under such heading, effective upon the expiration of the 21-day period (or such alternative period that may be imposed by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives) which begins on the date such Committee has been notified of the transfer.

(c) Transfers among various appropriations headings

(1) Amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for the House of Representatives under the headings specified in paragraph (2) may be transferred among and merged with such headings, effective upon the expiration of the 21-day period (or such alternative period that may be imposed by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives) which begins on the date such Committee has been notified of the transfer.

(2) The headings referred to in paragraph (1) are “House Leadership Offices”, “Members’ Representational Allowances”, “Committee Employees”, “Salaries, Officers and Employees”, “Allowances and Expenses”, the heading for any joint committee under the heading “Joint Items” (to the extent that amounts appropriated for the joint committee are disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives), “Office of the Attending Physician”, “Allowance for Compensation of Interns in Member Offices” 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. “Allowance for Compensation of Interns in House Appropriations Committee Offices”, “Allowance for Compensation of Interns in House Standing, Special and Select Committee Offices”, “Allowance for Compensation of Interns in House Leadership Offices”, and “House of Representatives Modernization Initiatives Account”.

(d) Transfers to Architect of the Capitol Amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for the House of Representatives under the heading “Allowances and Expenses” may be transferred to the Architect of the Capitol and merged with and made available under the heading “House Office Buildings”, subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(e) Transfers to House Historic Buildings Revitalization Trust Fund Amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for the House of Representatives under any heading other than the heading “Members’ Representational Allowances” may be transferred to the Architect of the Capitol and merged with and made available under the heading “House Historic Buildings Revitalization Trust Fund”, subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(f) Transfers among House Leadership Offices Amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for the House of Representatives under the heading “House Leadership Offices” may be transferred among and merged with the various offices and activities under such heading, effective upon the expiration of the 21-day period (or such alternative period that may be imposed by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives) which begins on the date such Committee has been notified of the transfer.

*([Pub. L. 102–392, title I, § 101](/us/pl/102/392/tI/s101), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/106/1709); [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 109(a)](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s109/a), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 355](/us/stat/117/355); [Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI), §§ 103(a), 105(a), (b), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 817](/us/stat/123/817), 818; [Pub. L. 111–68, div. A, title I](/us/pl/111/68/dA/tI), §§ 104(a), 1304(d), Oct. 1, 2009, [123 Stat. 2029](/us/stat/123/2029), 2035; [Pub. L. 113–76, div. I, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/113/76/dI/tI/s103/a), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 422](/us/stat/128/422); [Pub. L. 115–244, div. B, title I, § 119(a)](/us/pl/115/244/dB/tI/s119/a), Sept. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 2930](/us/stat/132/2930); [Pub. L. 116–94, div. E, title I](/us/pl/116/94/dE/tI), §§ 112(b), 113(e), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2759](/us/stat/133/2759); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. I, title I, § 115(d)](/us/pl/116/260/dI/tI/s115/d), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 1637](/us/stat/134/1637); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title I, § 113(d)](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tI/s113/d), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 511](/us/stat/136/511).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 95b of this title](/us/usc/t2/s95b) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1993, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1993.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103), which directed insertion of “ ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in House Appropriations Committee Offices’, ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in House Standing, Special and Select Committee Offices’,” after “ ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in Member Offices’,”, was executed by making the insertion after “ ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in Member Offices’ ” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

2020—Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) substituted “ ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in House Leadership Offices’, and ‘House of Representatives Modernization Initiatives Account’.” for “, and ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in House Leadership Offices’.”

2019—Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 116–94, § 113(e)](/us/pl/116/94/s113/e), substituted “, ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in Member Offices’, and ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in House Leadership Offices’ ” for “, and ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in Member Offices’ ”.

[Pub. L. 116–94, § 112(b)](/us/pl/116/94/s112/b), substituted “ ‘Office of the Attending Physician’, and ‘Allowance for Compensation of Interns in Member Offices’ ” for “and ‘Office of the Attending Physician’ ”.

2018—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–244](/us/pl/115/244) added subsec. (f).

2014—Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76) substituted “ ‘Allowances and Expenses’, the heading for any joint committee under the heading ‘Joint Items’ (to the extent that amounts appropriated for the joint committee are disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives), and ‘Office of the Attending Physician’ ” for “and ‘Allowances and Expenses’ ”.

2009—Subsecs. (a), (b), (c)(1). [Pub. L. 111–8, § 105(a)](/us/pl/111/8/s105/a), substituted “transferred among and merged with” for “transferred among”.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 111–8, § 105(b)](/us/pl/111/8/s105/b), amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “The headings referred to in paragraph (1) are ‘house leadership offices’, ‘members’ clerk hire’, ‘committee employees’, ‘standing committees, special and select’, ‘house information systems’, ‘allowances and expenses’, ‘official mail costs’, and ‘salaries, officers and employees’.”

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–68, § 104(a)](/us/pl/111/68/s104/a), substituted “and merged with and made available” for “and made available”.

[Pub. L. 111–8, § 103(a)](/us/pl/111/8/s103/a), added subsec. (d).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 111–68, § 1304(d)](/us/pl/111/68/s1304/d), added subsec. (e).

2003—Subsecs. (a), (b), (c)(1). [Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7) substituted “effective upon the expiration of the 21-day period (or such alternative period that may be imposed by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives) which begins on the date such Committee has been notified of the transfer” for “upon approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2020 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) applicable with respect to fiscal year 2021 and each succeeding fiscal year, see [section 5513(e) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5513/e).

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Amendment by [section 112(b) of Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94/s112/b) effective as if included in the enactment of [section 5322a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5322a), see [section 112(c) of Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94/s112/c), set out as a note under [section 5322a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5322a).

Amendment by [section 113(e) of Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94/s113/e) applicable with respect to fiscal year 2020 and each succeeding fiscal year, see [section 5106(f) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5106/f).

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–244, div. B, title I, § 119(b)](/us/pl/115/244/dB/tI/s119/b), Sept. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 2931](/us/stat/132/2931), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

#### Effective Date of 2014 Amendment

[Pub. L. 113–76, div. I, title I, § 103(b)](/us/pl/113/76/dI/tI/s103/b), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 422](/us/stat/128/422), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2014 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–68, div. A, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/111/68/dA/tI/s104/b), Oct. 1, 2009, [123 Stat. 2029](/us/stat/123/2029), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to funds appropriated for fiscal year 2010 and succeeding fiscal years.”

Amendment by [section 1304(d) of Pub. L. 111–68](/us/pl/111/68/s1304/d) applicable with respect to fiscal year 2010 and each succeeding fiscal year, see [section 1870(e) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1870/e).

[Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I, § 103(b)](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI/s103/b), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 817](/us/stat/123/817), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2009 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

[Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I, § 105(c)](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI/s105/c), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 818](/us/stat/123/818), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2009 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 109(b)](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s109/b), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 355](/us/stat/117/355), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2003 and each succeeding fiscal year.”

#### Categories of Allowances and Expenses

[Pub. L. 105–55, title I, § 102](/us/pl/105/55/tI/s102), Oct. 7, 1997, [111 Stat. 1183](/us/stat/111/1183), provided that: “The funds and accounts specified in section 107(b) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1996 ([2 U.S.C. 123b](/us/usc/t2/s123b) note) [now [2 U.S.C. 4131](/us/usc/t2/s4131) note] shall be treated as categories of allowances and expenses for purposes of section 101(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1993 ([2 U.S.C. 95b(a)](/us/usc/t2/s95b/a)) [now [2 U.S.C. 5507(a)](/us/usc/t2/s5507/a)].”
