---
title: "§ 796e–2. Authorized uses of funds"
identifier: "USC-T29-S796e–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section796e–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–112, title VII, § 713](/us/pl/93/112/tVII/s713), as added [Pub. L. 105–220, title IV, § 410](/us/pl/105/220/tIV/s410), Aug. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1226](/us/stat/112/1226); amended [Pub. L. 113–128, title IV, § 476(d)](/us/pl/113/128/tIV/s476/d), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1691](/us/stat/128/1691).)"
---
# § 796e–2. Authorized uses of funds

##### § 796e–2. Authorized uses of funds

(a) In general The State may use funds received under this subpart to provide the resources described in [section 796d(e) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s796d/e) (but may not use more than 30 percent of the funds paid to the State under [section 796e–1 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s796e–1) for such resources unless the State specifies that a greater percentage of the funds is needed for such resources in a State plan approved under [section 796d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s796d–1)), relating to the Statewide Independent Living Council, may retain funds under [section 796c(c)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s796c/c/5), and shall distribute the remainder of the funds received under this subpart in a manner consistent with the approved State plan for the activities described in subsection (b).

(b) Activities The State may use the remainder of the funds described in subsection (a)—

(1) to provide independent living services to individuals with significant disabilities, particularly those in unserved areas of the State;

(2) to demonstrate ways to expand and improve independent living services;

(3) to support the operation of centers for independent living that are in compliance with the standards and assurances set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 796f–4 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s796f–4);

(4) to support activities to increase the capacities of public or nonprofit agencies and organizations and other entities to develop comprehensive approaches or systems for providing independent living services;

(5) to conduct studies and analyses, gather information, develop model policies and procedures, and present information, approaches, strategies, findings, conclusions, and recommendations to Federal, State, and local policymakers in order to enhance independent living services for individuals with disabilities;

(6) to train individuals with disabilities and individuals providing services to individuals with disabilities and other persons regarding the independent living philosophy; and

(7) to provide outreach to populations that are unserved or underserved by programs under this subchapter, including minority groups and urban and rural populations.

*([Pub. L. 93–112, title VII, § 713](/us/pl/93/112/tVII/s713), as added [Pub. L. 105–220, title IV, § 410](/us/pl/105/220/tIV/s410), Aug. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1226](/us/stat/112/1226); amended [Pub. L. 113–128, title IV, § 476(d)](/us/pl/113/128/tIV/s476/d), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1691](/us/stat/128/1691).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 796e–2, [Pub. L. 93–112, title VII, § 713](/us/pl/93/112/tVII/s713), as added [Pub. L. 102–569, title VII, § 701(2)](/us/pl/102/569/tVII/s701/2), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4451](/us/stat/106/4451); amended [Pub. L. 103–73, title I, § 114(g)](/us/pl/103/73/tI/s114/g), Aug. 11, 1993, [107 Stat. 730](/us/stat/107/730), related to authorized uses of funds, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 105–220](/us/pl/105/220).

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128) added subsec. (a), redesignated existing provisions as subsec. (b), in introductory provisions, substituted “The State may use the remainder of the funds described in subsection (a)—” for “The State may use funds received under this subpart to provide the resources described in [section 796d(e) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s796d/e), relating to the Statewide Independent Living Council, and may use funds received under this subpart—” and, in par. (1), inserted “, particularly those in unserved areas of the State” after “disabilities”.
