---
title: "§ 2112. Foreign distribution of byproduct material"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 82, as added [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 935](/us/stat/68/935); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8)](/us/pl/102/486/tIX/s902/a/8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2944](/us/stat/106/2944).)"
---
# § 2112. Foreign distribution of byproduct material

##### § 2112. Foreign distribution of byproduct material

(a) Cooperation with other Nations The Commission is authorized to cooperate with any nation by distributing byproduct material, and to distribute byproduct material, pursuant to the terms of an agreement for cooperation to which such nation is party and which is made in accordance with [section 2153 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2153).

(b) Distribution to individuals The Commission is also authorized to distribute byproduct material to any person outside the United States upon application therefor by such person and demand such charge for such material as would be charged for the material if it were distributed within the United States: *Provided, however*, That the Commission shall not distribute any such material to any person under this section if, in its opinion, such distribution would be inimical to the common defense and security: *And provided further*, That the Commission may require such reports regarding the use of material distributed pursuant to the provisions of this section as it deems necessary.

(c) Distributor’s license The Commission is authorized to license others to distribute byproduct material to any person outside the United States under the same conditions, except as to charges, as would be applicable if the material were distributed by the Commission.

*([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 82, as added [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 935](/us/stat/68/935); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8)](/us/pl/102/486/tIX/s902/a/8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2944](/us/stat/106/2944).)*
