---
title: "§ 4306. Prohibited acts and criminal penalties"
identifier: "USC-T16-S4306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section4306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–691, § 7](/us/pl/100/691/s7), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4549](/us/stat/102/4549).)"
---
# § 4306. Prohibited acts and criminal penalties

##### § 4306. Prohibited acts and criminal penalties

(a) Prohibited acts

(1) Any person who, without prior authorization from the Secretary knowingly destroys, disturbs, defaces, mars, alters, removes or harms any significant cave or alters the free movement of any animal or plant life into or out of any significant cave located on Federal lands, or enters a significant cave with the intention of committing any act described in this paragraph shall be punished in accordance with subsection (b).

(2) Any person who possesses, consumes, sells, barters or exchanges, or offers for sale, barter or exchange, any cave resource from a significant cave with knowledge or reason to know that such resource was removed from a significant cave located on Federal lands shall be punished in accordance with subsection (b).

(3) Any person who counsels, procures, solicits, or employs any other person to violate any provisions of this subsection shall be punished in accordance with section 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”. (b).

(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed applicable to any person who was in lawful possession of a cave resource from a significant cave prior to November 18, 1988.

(b) Punishment The punishment for violating any provision of subsection (a) shall be imprisonment of not more than one year or a fine in accordance with the applicable provisions of title 18, or both. In the case of a second or subsequent violation, the punishment shall be imprisonment of not more than 3 years or a fine in accordance with the applicable provisions of title 18, or both.

*([Pub. L. 100–691, § 7](/us/pl/100/691/s7), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4549](/us/stat/102/4549).)*
