---
title: "§ 102702. Crime prevention assistance"
identifier: "USC-T54-S102702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section102702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3161](/us/stat/128/3161).)"
---
# § 102702. Crime prevention assistance

##### § 102702. Crime prevention assistance

(a) Recommendations for Improvement.— The Secretary shall direct the chief official responsible for law enforcement within the Service to—

(1) compile a list of System units with the highest rates of violent crime;

(2) make recommendations concerning capital improvements, and other measures, needed within the System to reduce the rates of violent crime, including the rate of sexual assault; and

(3) publish the information required by paragraphs (1) and (2) in the Federal Register.

(b) Distribution of Funds.— Based on the recommendations and list issued pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute the funds authorized by subsection (d) throughout the System. Priority shall be given to areas with the highest rates of sexual assault.

(c) Use of Funds.— Funds provided under this section may be used—

(1) to increase lighting within or adjacent to System units;

(2) to provide emergency phone lines to contact law enforcement or security personnel in areas within or adjacent to System units;

(3) to increase security or law enforcement personnel within or adjacent to System units; or

(4) for any other project intended to increase the security and safety of System units.

(d) Authorization of Appropriations.— There is authorized to be appropriated out of the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund not more than $10,000,000 for the Secretary to take all necessary actions to seek to reduce the incidence of violent crime in the System.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3161](/us/stat/128/3161).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 102702 | 16 U.S.C. 1a–7a. | Pub. L. 91–383, § 13, as added Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40132, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1917. |
