---
title: "§ 324. Institution of post-grant review"
identifier: "USC-T35-S324"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-12"
last_updated: "2025-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title35-section324"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "35"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–29, § 6(d)](/us/pl/112/29/s6/d), Sept. 16, 2011, [125 Stat. 306](/us/stat/125/306).)"
---
# § 324. Institution of post-grant review

##### § 324. Institution of post-grant review

(a) Threshold.— The Director may not authorize a post-grant review to be instituted unless the Director determines that the information presented in the petition filed under section 321, if such information is not rebutted, would demonstrate that it is more likely than not that at least 1 of the claims challenged in the petition is unpatentable.

(b) Additional Grounds.— The determination required under subsection (a) may also be satisfied by a showing that the petition raises a novel or unsettled legal question that is important to other patents or patent applications.

(c) Timing.— The Director shall determine whether to institute a post-grant review under this chapter pursuant to a petition filed under section 321 within 3 months after—

(1) receiving a preliminary response to the petition under section 323; or

(2) if no such preliminary response is filed, the last date on which such response may be filed.

(d) Notice.— The Director shall notify the petitioner and patent owner, in writing, of the Director’s determination under subsection (a) or (b), and shall make such notice available to the public as soon as is practicable. Such notice shall include the date on which the review shall commence.

(e) No Appeal.— The determination by the Director whether to institute a post-grant review under this section shall be final and nonappealable.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–29, § 6(d)](/us/pl/112/29/s6/d), Sept. 16, 2011, [125 Stat. 306](/us/stat/125/306).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon the expiration of the 1-year period beginning Sept. 16, 2011, and applicable only to patents described in [section 3(n)(1) of Pub. L. 112–29](/us/pl/112/29/s3/n/1) ([35 U.S.C. 100](/us/usc/t35/s100) note), with certain exceptions and limitations, see section 6(f)(2), (3) of [Pub. L. 112–29](/us/pl/112/29), set out as a note under [section 321 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s321).
