---
title: "§ 285a–3. National cancer research and demonstration centers"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285a–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285a–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 414, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 835](/us/stat/99/835); amended [Pub. L. 100–607, title I, § 123](/us/pl/100/607/tI/s123), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3055](/us/stat/102/3055); [Pub. L. 107–206, title I, § 804(c)](/us/pl/107/206/tI/s804/c), Aug. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 874](/us/stat/116/874); [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s108/b), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3697](/us/st"
---
# § 285a–3. National cancer research and demonstration centers

##### § 285a–3. National cancer research and demonstration centers

(a) Cooperative agreements and grants for establishing and supporting

(1) The Director of the Institute may enter into cooperative agreements with and make grants to public or private nonprofit entities to pay all or part of the cost of planning, establishing, or strengthening, and providing basic operating support for centers for basic and clinical research into, training in, and demonstration of advanced diagnostic, prevention, control, and treatment methods for cancer.

(2) A cooperative agreement or grant under paragraph (1) shall be entered into in accordance with policies established by the Director of NIH and after consultation with the Institute’s advisory council.

(b) Uses for Federal payments under cooperative agreements or grants Federal payments made under a cooperative agreement or grant under subsection (a) may be used for—

As used in this paragraph, the term “construction” does not include the acquisition of land, and the term “training” does not include research training for which Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Awards may be provided under [section 288 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s288).

(1) construction (notwithstanding any limitation under [section 289e of this title](/us/usc/t42/s289e));

(2) staffing and other basic operating costs, including such patient care costs as are required for research;

(3) clinical training, including training for allied health professionals, continuing education for health professionals and allied health professions personnel, and information programs for the public respecting cancer; and

(4) demonstration purposes.

(c) Period of support; additional periods Support of a center under subsection (a) may be for a period of not to exceed five years. Such period may be extended by the Director for additional periods of not more than five years each if the operations of such center have been reviewed by an appropriate technical and scientific peer review group established by the Director and if such group has recommended to the Director that such period should be extended.

(d) Construction Research centers under this section may not be considered centers of excellence for purposes of [section 282(b)(10) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s282/b/10).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 414, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 835](/us/stat/99/835); amended [Pub. L. 100–607, title I, § 123](/us/pl/100/607/tI/s123), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3055](/us/stat/102/3055); [Pub. L. 107–206, title I, § 804(c)](/us/pl/107/206/tI/s804/c), Aug. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 874](/us/stat/116/874); [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s108/b), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3697](/us/stat/120/3697).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2007—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) added subsec. (d).

2002—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–206](/us/pl/107/206) substituted “Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Awards” for “National Research Service Awards” in concluding provisions.

1988—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 100–607](/us/pl/100/607) inserted “control,” after “prevention,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482/s109), set out as a note under [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s281).
