---
title: "§ 6373. Authority to participate in both programs"
identifier: "USC-T5-S6373"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section6373"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–566, § 2(a)](/us/pl/100/566/s2/a), Oct. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 2843](/us/stat/102/2843); amended [Pub. L. 103–103, § 5(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/103/s5/a/1), Oct. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 1023](/us/stat/107/1023).)"
---
# § 6373. Authority to participate in both programs

##### § 6373. Authority to participate in both programs

(a) The Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe regulations under which an employee participating in a leave bank program under this subchapter may, subject to such terms or conditions as the Office may establish, also make or receive donations of leave under subchapter III.

(b) Notwithstanding any provision of section 6337 or 6371, if an employee uses leave transferred to such employee under subchapter III and leave made available to such employee under this subchapter in connection with the same medical emergency, the maximum number of days of annual leave and sick leave, respectively, which may accrue to such employee in connection with such medical emergency shall be the same as if all of that leave had been made available to such employee under this subchapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–566, § 2(a)](/us/pl/100/566/s2/a), Oct. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 2843](/us/stat/102/2843); amended [Pub. L. 103–103, § 5(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/103/s5/a/1), Oct. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 1023](/us/stat/107/1023).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—[Pub. L. 103–103](/us/pl/103/103) substituted “Authority to participate in both programs” for “Limitation on employee participation” in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “An employee in a unit of an agency that establishes a leave bank program under the provisions of this subchapter may not participate in a leave transfer program under the provisions of subchapter III.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1993 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–103](/us/pl/103/103) effective as of the 120th day after Oct. 8, 1993, or such earlier date as the Office of Personnel Management may by regulation prescribe, see [section 6 of Pub. L. 103–103](/us/pl/103/103/s6), set out as a note under [section 6331 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s6331).
