---
title: "§ 4008. Transportation expenses"
identifier: "USC-T18-S4008"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section4008"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 849](/us/stat/62/849); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 61](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s61), [63 Stat. 98](/us/stat/63/98).)"
---
# § 4008. Transportation expenses

##### § 4008. Transportation expenses

Prisoners shall be transported by agents designated by the Attorney General or his authorized representative.

The reasonable expense of transportation, necessary subsistence, and hire and transportation of guards and agents shall be paid by the Attorney General from such appropriation for the Department of Justice as he shall direct.

Upon conviction by a consular court or court martial the prisoner shall be transported from the court to the place of confinement by agents of the Department of State, the Army, Navy, or Air Force, as the case may be, the expense to be paid out of the Treasury of the United States in the manner provided by law.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 849](/us/stat/62/849); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 61](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s61), [63 Stat. 98](/us/stat/63/98).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### 1948 Act

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 753g ([May 14, 1930, ch. 274, § 8](/us/act/1930-05-14/ch274/s8), [46 Stat. 327](/us/stat/46/327)).

The second paragraph was originally a proviso.

Minor changes of phraseology were made.

#### 1949 Act

This section [section 61] corrects the third paragraph of [section 4008 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4008), U.S.C., by redesignating the “War Department” as the “Department of the Army”, to conform to such redesignation by act of July 26, 1947 (ch. 343, title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501)), and by inserting a reference to the Department of the Air Force, in view of the creation of such Department by the same act.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1949—Act May 24, 1949, substituted “the Army, Navy, or Air Force” for “War, or the Navy”.
