---
title: "§ 1695. Federal education and health care programs; nonapplicability or nonparticipation"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1695"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1695"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–205, title I, § 104](/us/pl/96/205/tI/s104), Mar. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 85](/us/stat/94/85); [Pub. L. 96–597, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/96/597/tIV/s403), Dec. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 3479](/us/stat/94/3479).)"
---
# § 1695. Federal education and health care programs; nonapplicability or nonparticipation

##### § 1695. Federal education and health care programs; nonapplicability or nonparticipation

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except in cases in which the Federal program is terminated with respect to all recipients under the program, Federal programs in the fields of education and health care shall not cease to apply to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or any successor government or governments, and shall continue to be available to the extent said territory or its successor or successors are eligible to participate in such programs. Participation in any applicable Federal programs in the fields of education and health care by the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or any successor government or governments shall not be denied, decreased or ended, either before or after the termination of the trusteeship, without the express approval of the United States Congress and shall continue at such levels as the Congress may provide in appropriation Acts.

*([Pub. L. 96–205, title I, § 104](/us/pl/96/205/tI/s104), Mar. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 85](/us/stat/94/85); [Pub. L. 96–597, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/96/597/tIV/s403), Dec. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 3479](/us/stat/94/3479).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1980—[Pub. L. 96–597](/us/pl/96/597) substituted “and shall continue to be available to the extent said territory or its successor or successors are eligible to participate in such programs. Participation” for “nor shall participation”, “governments shall not be denied” for “governments be denied” and inserted “and shall continue at such levels as the Congress may provide in appropriation Acts.” after “United States Congress”.
