---
title: "§ 9421. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9421"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9421"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–50, div. K, § 2](/us/pl/118/50/dK/s2), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 970](/us/stat/138/970).)"
---
# § 9421. Findings

##### § 9421. Findings

(1) Annex B to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015) restricts certain missile-related activities and transfers to and from Iran, including all items, materials, equipment, goods, and technology set out in the Missile Technology Control Regime Annex, absent advance, case-by-case approval from the United Nations Security Council.

(2) Iran has transferred Shahed and Mohajer drones, covered under the Missile Technology Control Regime Annex, to the Russian Federation, the Government of Ethiopia, and other Iran-aligned entities, including the Houthis in Yemen and militia units in Iraq, without prior authorization from the United Nations Security Council, in violation of the restrictions set forth in Annex B to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231.

(3) Certain missile-related restrictions in Annex B to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 expired in October 2023, removing international legal restrictions on missile-related activities and transfers to and from Iran.

*([Pub. L. 118–50, div. K, § 2](/us/pl/118/50/dK/s2), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 970](/us/stat/138/970).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 118–50, div. K, § 1](/us/pl/118/50/dK/s1), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 970](/us/stat/138/970), provided that: “This division [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Fight and Combat Rampant Iranian Missile Exports Act’ or the ‘Fight CRIME Act’.”
