---
title: "§ 644. Improving data accuracy"
identifier: "USC-T47-S644"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section644"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VIII, § 804, as added [Pub. L. 116–130, § 2](/us/pl/116/130/s2), Mar. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 237](/us/stat/134/237); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title V, § 60503](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tV/s60503), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1244](/us/stat/135/1244).)"
---
# § 644. Improving data accuracy

##### § 644. Improving data accuracy

(a) Audits The Commission shall conduct regular audits of information submitted to the Commission by providers under [section 642(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/b/2) to ensure that the providers are complying with this subchapter.

(b) Crowdsourcing

(1) In general The Commission shall develop a process through which entities or individuals in the United States may submit specific information about the deployment and availability of broadband internet access service in the United States on an ongoing basis so that the information may be used to verify and supplement information provided by providers of broadband internet access service for inclusion in the maps created under [section 642(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/c/1).

(2) Collaboration As part of the efforts of the Commission to facilitate the ability of entities and individuals to submit information under paragraph (1), the Commission shall—

(A) prioritize the consideration of data provided by data collection applications used by consumers that the Commission has determined—

(i) are highly reliable; and

(ii) have proven methodologies for determining network coverage and network performance; and

(B) coordinate with the Postmaster General, the heads of other Federal agencies that operate delivery fleet vehicles, and the Director of the Bureau of the Census for assistance with data collection whenever coordination could feasibly yield more specific geographic data.

(c) Technical assistance to Indian Tribes

(1) In general Subject to paragraph (2), the Commission shall hold workshops for Tribal Governments in each of the 12 Bureau of Indian Affairs regions to provide technical assistance with the collection and submission of data under [section 642(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/a/2).

(2) Annual review Each year, the Commission, in consultation with Indian Tribes, shall review the need for continued workshops required under paragraph (1).

(d) Technical assistance to small service providers The Commission shall establish a process through which a provider that has fewer than 100,000 active broadband internet access service connections may request and receive assistance from the Commission with respect to geographic information system data processing to ensure that the provider is able to comply with the requirements under [section 642(b) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/b) in a timely and accurate manner.

(e) Technical assistance to State, local, and Tribal governments and consumers The Commission shall provide technical assistance to consumers and State, local, and Tribal governmental entities with respect to the challenge process established under [section 642(b)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/b/5), which shall include—

(1) detailed tutorials and webinars; and

(2) the provision of staff of the Commission to provide assistance, as needed, throughout the entirety of the challenge process.

(f) GAO Assessment of Fabric source data

(1) In general The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct an assessment of key data sources that are used for purposes of the Fabric to identify and geocode locations where fixed broadband internet access service can be installed in order for the Comptroller General to develop recommendations for how the quality and completeness of those data sources can be improved as data sources for the Fabric.

(2) Sources included For the purposes of the assessment conducted under paragraph (1), the key data sources described in that paragraph shall include—

(A) any relevant sources of Federal data, including the National Address Database administered by the Department of Transportation;

(B) State- and county-level digitized parcel data; and

(C) property tax attribute recording.

(3) Report Not later than 1 year after March 23, 2020, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that contains the recommendations developed under paragraph (1).

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VIII, § 804, as added [Pub. L. 116–130, § 2](/us/pl/116/130/s2), Mar. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 237](/us/stat/134/237); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title V, § 60503](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tV/s60503), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1244](/us/stat/135/1244).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b)(2)(B), (C). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) added subpar. (B) and struck out former subpars. (B) and (C) which read as follows:

“(B) not later than 1 year after March 23, 2020, conclude a process that tests the feasibility of partnering with Federal agencies that operate delivery fleet vehicles, including the United States Postal Service, to facilitate the collection and submission of information described in that paragraph; and

“(C) not later than 14 months after March 23, 2020, publish on the website of the Commission, and submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, a report regarding the testing described in subparagraph (B), which shall include—

“(i) a determination regarding whether the partnerships with Federal agencies described in that subparagraph are able to facilitate the collection and submission of information described in paragraph (1); and

“(ii) any steps that the Commission plans to take to facilitate the partnerships described in that subparagraph.”
