---
title: "§ 1323. Distribution of fellowships"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–87, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/95/87/tIX/s903), Aug. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 530](/us/stat/91/530); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/a), title VII, §§ 703, 707, Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577), 606, 607.)"
---
# § 1323. Distribution of fellowships

##### § 1323. Distribution of fellowships

In awarding fellowships under the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary of Energy shall endeavor to provide equitable distribution of such fellowships throughout the Nation, except that the Secretary of Energy shall give special attention to institutions of higher education, libraries, archives, or other research centers which have a demonstrated capacity to offer courses of study or research in the field of energy resources and conservation and conversion and related disciplines. In carrying out his responsibilities under this section, the Secretary of Energy shall take into consideration the projected need for highly trained engineers and scientists in the field of energy sources.

*([Pub. L. 95–87, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/95/87/tIX/s903), Aug. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 530](/us/stat/91/530); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/a), title VII, §§ 703, 707, Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577), 606, 607.)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Energy” substituted in text for “Administrator”, meaning Administrator of Energy Research and Development Administration, pursuant to sections 301(a), 703, and 707 of [Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91), which are classified to sections 7151(a), 7293, 7297 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and which terminated Energy Research and Development Administration and transferred its functions and functions of Administrator thereof (with certain exceptions) to Secretary of Energy.
