---
title: "§ 6401. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T31-S6401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section6401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–103, § 4(a)](/us/pl/116/103/s4/a), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3267](/us/stat/133/3267).)"
---
# § 6401. Definitions

##### § 6401. Definitions

(1) Agency.— The term “agency” has the meaning given the term in [section 552(f) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/f).

(2) Core data elements.— The term “core data elements” means data elements relating to financial management, administration, or management that—

(A) are not program-specific in nature or program-specific outcome measures, as defined in [section 1115(h) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s1115/h); and

(B) are required by agencies for all or the vast majority of recipients of Federal awards for purposes of reporting.

(3) Director.— The term “Director” means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

(4) Executive department.— The term “Executive department” has the meaning given the term in [section 101 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s101).

(5) Federal award.— The term “Federal award”—

(A) means the transfer of anything of value for a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, including financial assistance and Government facilities, services, and property;

(B) includes a grant, a subgrant, a cooperative agreement, or any other transaction; and

(C) does not include a transaction or agreement—

(i) that provides for conventional public information services or procurement of property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Government; or

(ii) that provides only—

(I) direct Government cash assistance to an individual;

(II) a subsidy;

(III) a loan;

(IV) a loan guarantee; or

(V) insurance.

(6) Secretary.— The term “Secretary” means the head of the standard-setting agency.

(7) Standard-setting agency.— The term “standard-setting agency” means the Executive department designated under section 6402(a)(1).

(8) State.— The term “State” means each State of the United States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–103, § 4(a)](/us/pl/116/103/s4/a), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3267](/us/stat/133/3267).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 116–103, § 1(a)](/us/pl/116/103/s1/a), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3266](/us/stat/133/3266), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, amending sections 7502 and 7505 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 6402 and 7505 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Grant Reporting Efficiency and Agreements Transparency Act of 2019’ or the ‘GREAT Act’.”

#### Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 116–103, § 8](/us/pl/116/103/s8), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3271](/us/stat/133/3271), provided that: “Nothing in this Act [see Short Title note set out above], or the amendments made by this Act, shall be construed to require the collection of data that is not otherwise required under any Federal law, rule, or regulation.”

#### Purposes

[Pub. L. 116–103, § 2](/us/pl/116/103/s2), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3266](/us/stat/133/3266), provided that: “The purposes of this Act [see Short Title note set out above] are to— “(1) modernize reporting by recipients of Federal grants and cooperative agreements by creating and imposing data standards for the information that those recipients are required by law to report to the Federal Government; “(2) implement the recommendation by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget contained in the report submitted under section 5(b)(6) of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 ([31 U.S.C. 6101](/us/usc/t31/s6101) note) relating to the development of a ‘comprehensive taxonomy of standard definitions for core data elements required for managing Federal financial assistance awards’; “(3) reduce burden and compliance costs of recipients of Federal grants and cooperative agreements by enabling technology solutions, existing or yet to be developed, for use in both the public and private sectors to better manage the data that recipients already provide to the Federal Government; and “(4) strengthen oversight and management of Federal grants and cooperative agreements by agencies by consolidating the collection and display of and access to open data that has been standardized and, where appropriate, increasing transparency to the public.”

#### Definitions

[Pub. L. 116–103, § 3](/us/pl/116/103/s3), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3267](/us/stat/133/3267), provided that: “In this Act [see Short Title note set out above], the terms ‘agency’, ‘Director’, ‘Federal award’, and ‘Secretary’ have the meanings given those terms in [section 6401 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s6401), United States Code, as added by section 4(a) of this Act.”
