---
title: "§ 12321. Confidentiality of abused person’s address"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40281](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40281), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1938](/us/stat/108/1938).)"
---
# § 12321. Confidentiality of abused person’s address

##### § 12321. Confidentiality of abused person’s address

(a) Regulations Not later than 90 days after September 13, 1994, the United States Postal Service shall promulgate regulations to secure the confidentiality of domestic violence shelters and abused persons’ addresses.

(b) Requirements The regulations under subsection (a) shall require—

(1) in the case of an individual, the presentation to an appropriate postal official of a valid, outstanding protection order; and

(2) in the case of a domestic violence shelter, the presentation to an appropriate postal authority of proof from a State domestic violence coalition that meets the requirements of section 10410 11 See References in Text note below. of title 42 verifying that the organization is a domestic violence shelter.

(c) Disclosure for certain purposes The regulations under subsection (a) shall not prohibit the disclosure of addresses to State or Federal agencies for legitimate law enforcement or other governmental purposes.

(d) Existing compilations Compilations of addresses existing at the time at which order is presented to an appropriate postal official shall be excluded from the scope of the regulations under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40281](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40281), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1938](/us/stat/108/1938).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 10410 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10410), referred to in subsec. (b)(2), was generally amended by [Pub. L. 111–320, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/320/tII/s201), Dec. 20, 2010, [124 Stat. 3497](/us/stat/124/3497), and, as so amended, no longer contains provisions relating to grants for State domestic violence coalitions. See [section 10411 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10411), The Public Health and Welfare.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13951 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13951), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
