---
title: "§ 283a–3. Establishment of program regarding DES"
identifier: "USC-T42-S283a–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section283a–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 403D, formerly § 403A, as added [Pub. L. 102–409, § 2](/us/pl/102/409/s2), Oct. 13, 1992, [106 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/106/2092); amended [Pub. L. 105–340, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/105/340/tI/s101/a), Oct. 31, 1998, [112 Stat. 3191](/us/stat/112/3191); renumbered § 403C and amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I](/us/pl/109/482/tI), §§ 103(b)(2), 104(a)(1), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3687](/us/stat/120/3687), 3689; renumbered § 403D, [Pub. "
---
# § 283a–3. Establishment of program regarding DES

##### § 283a–3. Establishment of program regarding DES

(a) In general The Director of NIH shall establish a program for the conduct and support of research and training, the dissemination of health information, and other programs with respect to the diagnosis and treatment of conditions associated with exposure to the drug diethylstilbestrol (in this section referred to as “DES”).

(b) Education programs In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of NIH, after consultation with nonprofit private entities representing individuals who have been exposed to DES, shall conduct or support programs to educate health professionals and the public on the drug, including the importance of identifying and treating individuals who have been exposed to the drug.

(c) Longitudinal studies After consultation with the Office of Research on Women’s Health, the Director of NIH, acting through the appropriate national research institutes, shall in carrying out subsection (a) conduct or support one or more longitudinal studies to determine the incidence of the following diseases or disorders in the indicated populations and the relationship of DES to the diseases or disorders:

(1) In the case of women to whom (on or after January 1, 1938) DES was administered while the women were pregnant, the incidence of all diseases and disorders (including breast cancer, gynecological cancers, and impairments of the immune system, including autoimmune disease).

(2) In the case of women exposed to DES in utero, the incidence of clear cell cancer (including recurrences), the long-term health effects of such cancer, and the effects of treatments for such cancer.

(3) In the case of men and women exposed to DES in utero, the incidence of all diseases and disorders (including impairments of the reproductive and autoimmune systems).

(4) In the case of children of men or women exposed to DES in utero, the incidence of all diseases and disorders.

(d) Exposure to DES in utero For purposes of this section, an individual shall be considered to have been exposed to DES in utero if, during the pregnancy that resulted in the birth of such individual, DES was (on or after January 1, 1938) administered to the biological mother of the individual.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 403D, formerly § 403A, as added [Pub. L. 102–409, § 2](/us/pl/102/409/s2), Oct. 13, 1992, [106 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/106/2092); amended [Pub. L. 105–340, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/105/340/tI/s101/a), Oct. 31, 1998, [112 Stat. 3191](/us/stat/112/3191); renumbered § 403C and amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I](/us/pl/109/482/tI), §§ 103(b)(2), 104(a)(1), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3687](/us/stat/120/3687), 3689; renumbered § 403D, [Pub. L. 110–85, title XI, § 1104(4)](/us/pl/110/85/tXI/s1104/4), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 975](/us/stat/121/975).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 283a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s283a) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482).

#### Amendments

2007—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 109–482, § 103(b)(2)](/us/pl/109/482/s103/b/2), struck out subsec. (e) which read as follows: “In addition to any other authorization of appropriations available for the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated for such purpose such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 2003.”

1998—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 105–340](/us/pl/105/340) substituted “2003” for “1996”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482/s109), set out as a note under [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s281).
