---
title: "§ 1533. Information collection and dissemination with respect to grant recipients"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1533"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1533"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–690, title I, § 1033](/us/pl/100/690/tI/s1033), as added [Pub. L. 105–20, § 2(a)(2)](/us/pl/105/20/s2/a/2), June 27, 1997, [111 Stat. 230](/us/stat/111/230); amended [Pub. L. 107–82, § 1(e)](/us/pl/107/82/s1/e), (f), Dec. 14, 2001, [115 Stat. 818](/us/stat/115/818); [Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, § 8203(b)(4)(A)](/us/pl/115/271/tVIII/s8203/b/4/A), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4111](/us/stat/132/4111); [Pub. L. 116–74, § 2(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II)](/us/pl/116/74/s2/c/1/A/ii/II), Nov. 27, 2019, "
---
# § 1533. Information collection and dissemination with respect to grant recipients

##### § 1533. Information collection and dissemination with respect to grant recipients

(a) Coalition information

(1) General auditing authority For the purpose of audit and examination, the Administrator—

(A) shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records that are pertinent to any grant or grant renewal request under this subchapter; and

(B) may periodically request information from a grant recipient to ensure that the grant recipient meets the applicable criteria under [section 1532(a) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1532/a).

(2) Application process The Administrator shall issue a request for proposal regarding, with respect to the grants awarded under [section 1532 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1532), the application process, grant renewal, and suspension or withholding of renewal grants. Each application under this paragraph shall be in writing and shall be subject to review by the Administrator.

(3) Reporting The Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable and in a manner consistent with applicable law, minimize reporting requirements by a grant recipient and expedite any application for a renewal grant made under this part.

(b) Data collection and dissemination

(1) In general The Administrator may collect data from—

(A) national substance use and misuse organizations that work with eligible coalitions, community anti-drug coalitions, departments or agencies of the Federal Government, or State or local governments and the governing bodies of Indian tribes; and

(B) any other entity or organization that carries out activities that relate to the purposes of the Program.

(2) Activities of Administrator The Administrator may—

(A) evaluate the utility of specific initiatives relating to the purposes of the Program;

(B) conduct an evaluation of the Program; and

(C) disseminate information described in this subsection to—

(i) eligible coalitions and other substance use and misuse organizations; and

(ii) the general public.

(3) Consultation The Administrator shall carry out activities under this subsection in consultation with the Advisory Commission and the National Community Antidrug Coalition Institute.

(4) Limitation on use of certain funds for evaluation of Program Amounts for activities under paragraph (2)(B) may not be derived from amounts under [section 1524(a) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1524/a) except for amounts that are available under [section 1524(b) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1524/b) for administrative costs.

*([Pub. L. 100–690, title I, § 1033](/us/pl/100/690/tI/s1033), as added [Pub. L. 105–20, § 2(a)(2)](/us/pl/105/20/s2/a/2), June 27, 1997, [111 Stat. 230](/us/stat/111/230); amended [Pub. L. 107–82, § 1(e)](/us/pl/107/82/s1/e), (f), Dec. 14, 2001, [115 Stat. 818](/us/stat/115/818); [Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, § 8203(b)(4)(A)](/us/pl/115/271/tVIII/s8203/b/4/A), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4111](/us/stat/132/4111); [Pub. L. 116–74, § 2(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II)](/us/pl/116/74/s2/c/1/A/ii/II), Nov. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1157](/us/stat/133/1157).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—[Pub. L. 116–74, § 2(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II)](/us/pl/116/74/s2/c/1/A/ii/II), made technical amendment to directory language of [Pub. L. 115–271, § 8203(b)(4)(A)](/us/pl/115/271/s8203/b/4/A). See 2018 Amendment note below.

2018—Subsec. (b)(1)(A), (2)(C)(i). [Pub. L. 115–271, § 8203(b)(4)(A)](/us/pl/115/271/s8203/b/4/A), as amended by [Pub. L. 116–74, § 2(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II)](/us/pl/116/74/s2/c/1/A/ii/II), substituted “substance use and misuse” for “substance abuse”.

2001—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 107–82, § 1(e)](/us/pl/107/82/s1/e), added par. (3).

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 107–82, § 1(f)](/us/pl/107/82/s1/f), added par. (4).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–74](/us/pl/116/74) effective as if included in the enactment of subtitle K of title VIII of [Pub. L. 115–271](/us/pl/115/271), see [section 2(c)(2) of Pub. L. 116–74](/us/pl/116/74/s2/c/2), set out as a note under [section 1522 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1522).
