---
title: "§ 9531. Exception relating to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9531"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9531"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–44, title II, § 237](/us/pl/115/44/tII/s237), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 922](/us/stat/131/922).)"
---
# § 9531. Exception relating to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration

##### § 9531. Exception relating to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration

(a) In general This chapter and the amendments made by this Act shall not apply with respect to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

(b) Rule of construction Nothing in this chapter or the amendments made by this Act shall be construed to authorize the imposition of any sanction or other condition, limitation, restriction, or prohibition, that directly or indirectly impedes the supply by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or service, or the procurement of such product or service by any contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch conducted for—

(1) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; or

(2) any other non-Department of Defense customer.

*([Pub. L. 115–44, title II, § 237](/us/pl/115/44/tII/s237), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 922](/us/stat/131/922).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “This Act” and was translated as reading “This title”, meaning title II of [Pub. L. 115–44](/us/pl/115/44), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 898](/us/stat/131/898), known as the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see [section 201 of Pub. L. 115–44](/us/pl/115/44/s201), set out as a Short Title note under [section 9501 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9501) and Tables.
