---
title: "§ 3653. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3653"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3653"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–559, § 4](/us/pl/106/559/s4), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2779](/us/stat/114/2779); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 214(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s214/a/1), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2270](/us/stat/124/2270).)"
---
# § 3653. Definitions

##### § 3653. Definitions

(1) Attorney General The term “Attorney General” means the Attorney General of the United States.

(2) Director The term “Director” means the Director of the Office of Tribal Justice.

(3) Indian lands The term “Indian lands” shall include lands within the definition of “Indian country”, as defined in [section 1151 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1151); or “Indian reservations”, as defined in [section 1452(d) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1452/d), or [section 1903(10) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1903/10). For purposes of the preceding sentence, such [section 1452(d) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1452/d) shall be applied by treating the term “former Indian reservations in Oklahoma” as including only lands which are within the jurisdictional area of an Oklahoma Indian Tribe (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) and are recognized by such Secretary as eligible for trust land status under part 151 of title 25, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on December 21, 2000).

(4) Indian tribe The term “Indian tribe” means any Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, or other organized group or community which administers justice or plans to administer justice under its inherent authority or the authority of the United States and which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indian tribes because of their status as Indians.

(5) Judicial personnel The term “judicial personnel” means any judge, magistrate, court counselor, court clerk, court administrator, bailiff, probation officer, officer of the court, dispute resolution facilitator, or other official, employee, or volunteer within the tribal judicial system.

(6) Non-profit entities The term “non-profit entity” or “non-profit entities” has the meaning given that term in [section 501(c)(3) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3).

(7) Office of Tribal Justice The term “Office of Tribal Justice” means the Office of Tribal Justice in the United States Department of Justice.

(8) Tribal justice system The term “tribal court”, “tribal court system”, or “tribal justice system” means the entire judicial branch, and employees thereof, of an Indian tribe, including, but not limited to, traditional methods and fora for dispute resolution, trial courts, appellate courts, including inter-tribal appellate courts, alternative dispute resolution systems, and circuit rider systems, established by inherent tribunal authority whether or not they constitute a court of record.

*([Pub. L. 106–559, § 4](/us/pl/106/559/s4), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2779](/us/stat/114/2779); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 214(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s214/a/1), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2270](/us/stat/124/2270).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Pars. (2) to (8). [Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211) added par. (2) and redesignated former pars. (2) to (7) as (3) to (8), respectively.
