---
title: "§ 7608. Mandatory licensing"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7608"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7608"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title III, § 308, as added [Pub. L. 91–604, § 12(a)](/us/pl/91/604/s12/a), Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1708](/us/stat/84/1708).)"
---
# § 7608. Mandatory licensing

##### § 7608. Mandatory licensing

(1) that—

(A) in the implementation of the requirements of section 7411, 7412, or 7521 of this title, a right under any United States letters patent, which is being used or intended for public or commercial use and not otherwise reasonably available, is necessary to enable any person required to comply with such limitation to so comply, and

(B) there are no reasonable alternative methods to accomplish such purpose, and

(2) that the unavailability of such right may result in a substantial lessening of competition or tendency to create a monopoly in any line of commerce in any section of the country,

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title III, § 308, as added [Pub. L. 91–604, § 12(a)](/us/pl/91/604/s12/a), Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1708](/us/stat/84/1708).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1857h–6 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1857h–6).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 308 of act July 14, 1955, was renumbered section 315 by [Pub. L. 91–604](/us/pl/91/604) and is classified to [section 7615 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7615).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Modification or Rescission of Rules, Regulations, Orders, Determinations, Contracts, Certifications, Authorizations, Delegations, and Other Actions

All rules, regulations, orders, determinations, contracts, certifications, authorizations, delegations, or other actions duly issued, made, or taken by or pursuant to act July 14, 1955, the Clean Air Act, as in effect immediately prior to the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 95–95](/us/pl/95/95) [Aug. 7, 1977] to continue in full force and effect until modified or rescinded in accordance with act July 14, 1955, as amended by [Pub. L. 95–95](/us/pl/95/95) [this chapter], see [section 406(b) of Pub. L. 95–95](/us/pl/95/95/s406/b), set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7401).
