---
title: "§ 1453. Lading and unlading of merchandise or baggage; penalties"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1453"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1453"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 453, [46 Stat. 716](/us/stat/46/716); [Pub. L. 91–271, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/91/271/tIII/s301/b), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 287](/us/stat/84/287).)"
---
# § 1453. Lading and unlading of merchandise or baggage; penalties

##### § 1453. Lading and unlading of merchandise or baggage; penalties

If any merchandise or baggage is laden on, or unladen from, any vessel or vehicle without a special license or permit therefor issued by the appropriate customs officer, the master of such vessel or the person in charge of such vehicle and every other person who knowingly is concerned, or who aids therein, or in removing or otherwise securing such merchandise or baggage, shall each be liable to a penalty equal to the value of the merchandise or baggage so laden or unladen, and such merchandise or baggage shall be subject to forfeiture, and if the value thereof is $500 or more, the vessel or vehicle on or from which the same shall be laden or unladen shall be subject to forfeiture.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 453, [46 Stat. 716](/us/stat/46/716); [Pub. L. 91–271, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/91/271/tIII/s301/b), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 287](/us/stat/84/287).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 453](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s453), [42 Stat. 955](/us/stat/42/955). That section was superseded by section 453 of act June 17, 1930, comprising this section, and repealed by section 651(a)(1) of the 1930 act.

Provisions imposing penalties and forfeitures for violation of R.S. § 2872, which required a special license for unloading or delivering merchandise otherwise than in open day, were contained in R.S. §§ 2873 and 2874, prior to repeal by [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 642](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s642), [42 Stat. 989](/us/stat/42/989).

#### Amendments

1970—[Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271) substituted reference to appropriate customs officer for reference to collector.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

For effective date of amendment by [Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271), see [section 203 of Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271/s203), set out as a note under [section 1500 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1500).
