---
title: "§ 155. Withdrawal, reservation, or restriction of public lands for defense purposes; “public lands” defined; exception"
identifier: "USC-T43-S155"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section155"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–337, § 1](/us/pl/85/337/s1), Feb. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 27](/us/stat/72/27).)"
---
# § 155. Withdrawal, reservation, or restriction of public lands for defense purposes; “public lands” defined; exception

##### § 155. Withdrawal, reservation, or restriction of public lands for defense purposes; “public lands” defined; exception

(1) for the purposes of this Act, the term “public lands” shall be deemed to include, without limiting the meaning thereof, Federal lands and waters of the Outer Continental Shelf, as defined in [section 1331 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1331), and Federal lands and waters off the coast of the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii;

(2) nothing in this Act shall be deemed to be applicable to the withdrawal or reservation of public lands specifically as naval petroleum, naval oil shale, or naval coal reserves;

(3) nothing in this Act shall be deemed to be applicable to the warning areas over the Federal lands and waters of the Outer Continental Shelf and Federal lands and waters off the coast of the Territory of Alaska reserved for use of the military departments prior to August 7, 1953, and

(4) nothing in this section, section 156, or [section 157 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s157) shall be deemed to be applicable either to those reservations or withdrawals which expired due to the ending of the unlimited national emergency of May 27, 1941, and which subsequent to such expiration have been and are now used by the military departments with the concurrence of the Department of the Interior, or to the withdrawal of public domain lands of the Marine Corps Training Center, Twentynine Palms, California, and the naval gunnery ranges in the State of Nevada designated as Basic Black Rock and Basic Sahwave Mountain.

*([Pub. L. 85–337, § 1](/us/pl/85/337/s1), Feb. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 27](/us/stat/72/27).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in pars. (1), (2), and (3), is [Pub. L. 85–337](/us/pl/85/337), Feb. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 27](/us/stat/72/27), which enacted sections 155 to 158 of this title and [section 2671 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2671), Armed Forces, and amended section 472 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Admission of Alaska and Hawaii to Statehood

Alaska was admitted into the Union on Jan. 3, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3269, Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16, and Hawaii was admitted into the Union on Aug. 21, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3309, Aug. 21, 1959, 24 F.R. 6868, 73 Stat. c74. For Alaska Statehood Law, see [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 339](/us/stat/72/339), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s21), Territories and Insular Possessions. For Hawaii Statehood Law, see [Pub. L. 86–3](/us/pl/86/3), Mar. 18, 1959, [73 Stat. 4](/us/stat/73/4), set out as a note preceding [section 491 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s491).
