---
title: "§ 1509. Costs of publication, etc"
identifier: "USC-T44-S1509"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section1509"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1277](/us/stat/82/1277); [Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, § 408(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/94/tIV/s408/a/1), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 683](/us/stat/91/683); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/b), (c)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537); [Pub. L. 118–267, § 2(a)(3)](/us/pl/118/267/s2/a/3), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2983](/us/stat/138/2983).)"
---
# § 1509. Costs of publication, etc

##### § 1509. Costs of publication, etc.

(a) The cost of publishing the Federal Register and the Code of Federal Regulations, and, except as provided in subsection (b), other expenses incurred by the Government Publishing Office in carrying out the duties placed upon it by this chapter shall be charged to the revolving fund provided in section 309. Reimbursements for such costs and expenses shall be made by the Federal agencies and credited, together with all receipts, as provided in section 309(b).

(b) The cost of publishing all other publications of the Federal Register program, and other expenses incurred by the Government Publishing Office in connection with such publications, shall be borne by the appropriations to the Government Publishing Office and the appropriations are made available, and are authorized to be increased by additional sums necessary for the purposes, the increases to be based upon estimates submitted by the Director of the Government Publishing Office.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1277](/us/stat/82/1277); [Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, § 408(a)(1)](/us/pl/95/94/tIV/s408/a/1), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 683](/us/stat/91/683); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/b), (c)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537); [Pub. L. 118–267, § 2(a)(3)](/us/pl/118/267/s2/a/3), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2983](/us/stat/138/2983).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 309 ([July 26, 1935, ch. 417, § 9](/us/act/1935-07-26/ch417/s9), [49 Stat. 502](/us/stat/49/502)).

A reference to section 10 of Act June 19, 1934 is deleted because of the repeal of that section by Act June 30, 1949.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 118–267](/us/pl/118/267) substituted “publishing” for “printing, reprinting, wrapping, binding, and distributing” in two places.

2014—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/c/1), substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer”.

1977—[Pub. L. 95–94](/us/pl/95/94) substituted “Costs of publication, etc.” for “Cost of publication; appropriations authorized; penalty mail privilege” in section catchline, added subsec. (a), designated former first paragraph as subsec. (b) and inserted provision restricting coverage to the other publications of the Federal Register program and struck out provision requiring payments for the Federal Register to be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts and former second paragraph relating to penalty mail privileges for the Federal Register.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Government Publishing Office” substituted for “Government Printing Office” wherever appearing in text on authority of [section 1301(b) of Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/b), set out as a note preceding [section 301 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s301).

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

[Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, § 408(b)](/us/pl/95/94/tIV/s408/b), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 683](/us/stat/91/683), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on October 1, 1977.”
