---
title: "§ 256. Trials at ports other than New York"
identifier: "USC-T28-S256"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section256"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 91–271, title I, § 109](/us/pl/91/271/tI/s109), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 277](/us/stat/84/277); amended [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 107](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s107), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 28](/us/stat/96/28).)"
---
# § 256. Trials at ports other than New York

##### § 256. Trials at ports other than New York

(a) The chief judge may designate any judge or judges of the court to proceed, together with necessary assistants, to any port or to any place within the jurisdiction of the United States to preside at a trial or hearing at the port or place.

(b) Upon application of a party or upon his own initiative, and upon a showing that the interests of economy, efficiency, and justice will be served, the chief judge may issue an order authorizing a judge of the court to preside in an evidentiary hearing in a foreign country whose laws do not prohibit such a hearing: *Provided, however*, That an interlocutory appeal may be taken from such an order pursuant to the provisions of [section 1292(d)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1292/d/1), and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit may, in its discretion, consider the appeal.

*(Added [Pub. L. 91–271, title I, § 109](/us/pl/91/271/tI/s109), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 277](/us/stat/84/277); amended [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 107](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s107), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 28](/us/stat/96/28).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1982—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) substituted “[section 1292(d)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1292/d/1), and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit may, in its discretion, consider the appeal” for “[section 1541(b) of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1541/b), subject to the discretion of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals as set forth in that section”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) effective Oct. 1, 1982, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164/s402), set out as a note under [section 171 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s171).

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 91–271, title I, § 122](/us/pl/91/271/tI/s122), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 281](/us/stat/84/281), provided that: “(a) This title [see Short Title of 1970 Amendment note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1)] shall become effective on October 1, 1970, and shall thereafter apply to all actions and proceedings in the Customs Court and the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals except those involving merchandise entered before the effective date for which trial has commenced by such effective date. “(b) An appeal for reappraisement timely filed with the Bureau of Customs before the effective date, but as to which trial has not commenced by such date, shall be deemed to have had a summons timely and properly filed under this title. When the judgment or order of the United States Customs Court has become final in this appeal, the papers shall be returned to the appropriate customs officer to decide any remaining matters relating to the entry in accordance with section 500 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended [[section 1500 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1500), Customs Duties]. A protest or summons filed after final decision on an appeal for reappraisement shall not include issues which were raised or could have been raised on the appeal for reappraisement. “(c) A protest timely filed with the Bureau of Customs before the effective date of enactment of this Act [June 2, 1970], which is disallowed before that date, and as to which trial has not commenced by such date, shall be deemed to have had a summons timely and properly filed under this title. “(d) All other provisions of this Act [see Short Title notes set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1) and [section 1500 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1500)] shall apply to appeals and disallowed protests deemed to have had summonses timely and properly filed under this section.”
