---
title: "§ 335. Payment of personnel expenses necessary for participation in training program conducted by Colombia under the United States-Colombia Action Plan for Regional Security"
identifier: "USC-T10-S335"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section335"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title XII, § 1201(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tXII/s1201/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2822](/us/stat/136/2822).)"
---
# § 335. Payment of personnel expenses necessary for participation in training program conducted by Colombia under the United States-Colombia Action Plan for Regional Security

##### § 335. Payment of personnel expenses necessary for participation in training program conducted by Colombia under the United States-Colombia Action Plan for Regional Security

(a) Authority.— The Secretary of Defense may pay the expendable training supplies, travel, subsistence, and similar personnel expenses of, and special compensation for, the following that the Secretary considers necessary for participation in the training program conducted by Colombia under the United States-Colombia Action Plan for Regional Security:

(1) Defense personnel of friendly foreign governments.

(2) With the concurrence of the Secretary of State, other personnel of friendly foreign governments and nongovernmental personnel.

(b) Limitation.—

(1) In general.— Except as provided in paragraph (2), the authority provided in subsection (a) may only be used for the payment of such expenses of, and special compensation for, such personnel from developing countries.

(2) Exception.— The Secretary may authorize the payment of such expenses of, and special compensation for, such personnel from a country other than a developing country if the Secretary determines that such payment is—

(A) necessary to respond to extraordinary circumstances; and

(B) in the national security interest of the United States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title XII, § 1201(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tXII/s1201/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2822](/us/stat/136/2822).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 335 was renumbered [section 255 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s255).
