---
title: "§ 12186. Program priority for special emphasis programs"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12186"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12186"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31116](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31116), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1885](/us/stat/108/1885).)"
---
# § 12186. Program priority for special emphasis programs

##### § 12186. Program priority for special emphasis programs

(a) In general The Secretary shall give priority in providing lines of credit under this subpart to community development corporations that propose to undertake economic development activities in distressed communities that target women, Native Americans, at risk youth, farmworkers, population-losing communities, very low-income communities, single mothers, veterans, and refugees; or that expand employee ownership of private enterprises and small businesses, and to programs providing loans of not more than $35,000 to very small business enterprises.

(b) Reservation of funds Not less than 5 percent of the amounts made available under section 31112(a)(2)(A) 11 See References in Text note below. may be reserved to carry out the activities described in subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31116](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31116), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1885](/us/stat/108/1885).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 31112(a)(2)(A), referred to in subsec. (b), probably should be a reference to [section 31132(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s31132/b/1), title III, Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1888](/us/stat/108/1888), which authorized appropriations under this part and was formerly classified to [section 13852 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13852), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to being omitted from the Code as obsolete.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13826 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13826), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
