---
title: "§ 8545. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management temporary special recreation permits for outfitting and guiding"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8545"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8545"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 316](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s316), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2905](/us/stat/138/2905).)"
---
# § 8545. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management temporary special recreation permits for outfitting and guiding

##### § 8545. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management temporary special recreation permits for outfitting and guiding

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after January 4, 2025, the Secretary concerned shall establish and implement a program to authorize the issuance of temporary special recreation permits for new or additional recreational uses of Federal recreational land and water managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management.

(b) Term of temporary permits A temporary special recreation permit issued under paragraph (1) 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection (a)”. shall be issued for a period of not more than 2 years.

(c) Conversion to long-term permit If the Secretary concerned determines that a permittee under paragraph (1) ^1 has completed 2 years of satisfactory operation under the permit proposed to be converted, the Secretary may provide for the conversion of a temporary special recreation permit issued under paragraph (1) ^1 to a long-term special recreation permit.

(d) Effect Nothing in this subsection 22 So in original. Probably should be “this section”. alters or affects the authority of the Secretary to issue a special recreation permit under subsection (h)(1) of [section 6802 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802) (as amended by this title).

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 316](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s316), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2905](/us/stat/138/2905).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

As amended by this title, referred to in subsec. (d), means as amended by title III of [Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234).
