---
title: "§ 53110. Regulations"
identifier: "USC-T46-S53110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section53110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(a)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXV/s3531/a), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1817](/us/stat/117/1817).)"
---
# § 53110. Regulations

##### § 53110. Regulations

The Secretary and the Secretary of Defense may each prescribe rules as necessary to carry out their respective responsibilities under this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(a)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXV/s3531/a), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1817](/us/stat/117/1817).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Interim Rules

[Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXV, § 3533](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXV/s3533), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1818](/us/stat/117/1818), provided that: “The Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Defense may each prescribe interim rules necessary to carry out their respective responsibilities under this subtitle [subtitle C (§§ 3531–3537) of title XXXV of div. C of [Pub. L. 108–136](/us/pl/108/136), enacting this chapter, amending former [section 12102 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s12102) and sections 808 and 1162 of the former Appendix to this title, repealing sections 1187 to 1187e and 1222 of the former Appendix to this title, enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 53101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s53101), and amending provisions set out as a note under section 1187 of the former Appendix to this title] and the amendments made by this subtitle. For this purpose, the Secretaries are excepted from compliance with the notice and comment requirements of [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553), United States Code. All interim rules prescribed under the authority of this section that are not earlier superseded by final rules shall expire no later than 270 days after the effective date of this subtitle [see Effective Date note set out under [section 53101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s53101)].”
