---
title: "§ 13437. Advanced diesel emissions program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13437"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13437"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XX, § 2027](/us/pl/102/486/tXX/s2027), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3066](/us/stat/106/3066).)"
---
# § 13437. Advanced diesel emissions program

##### § 13437. Advanced diesel emissions program

(a) Program direction The Secretary shall initiate a 5-year program, in accordance with sections 13541 and 13542 of this title, on diesel engine combustion and engine systems, related advanced materials, and fuels and lubricants to reduce emissions oxides of nitrogen and particulates. Activities conducted under this program shall supplement activities of a similar nature at the Department of Energy. Such program shall include field demonstrations of sufficient scale and number in operating environments to prove technical and economic viability to meet the goal stated in subsection (b).

(b) Program goal The goal of the program established under subsection (a) shall be to accelerate the ability of United States diesel manufacturers to meet current and future oxides of nitrogen and particulate emissions requirements.

(c) Program plan Within 180 days after October 24, 1992, the Secretary, in consultation with appropriate representatives of industry, institutions of higher education, Federal agencies, including national laboratories, and professional and technical societies, shall prepare and submit to the Congress a 5-year program plan to guide the activities under this section. Such plan shall be included as part of the plan required by [section 13431(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13431/b).

(d) Solicitation of proposals Within 1 year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall solicit proposals for conducting activities consistent with the 5-year program plan.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XX, § 2027](/us/pl/102/486/tXX/s2027), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3066](/us/stat/106/3066).)*
