---
title: "§ 122. Limitation on use of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T20-S122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1899, ch. 424](/us/act/1899-03-03/ch424), [30 Stat. 1101](/us/stat/30/1101); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. IV, § 11(c), eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2422, [54 Stat. 1237](/us/stat/54/1237); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, §§ 5, 8, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(2)(M)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/2/M), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 678](/us/stat/93/678), 692.)"
---
# § 122. Limitation on use of appropriations

##### § 122. Limitation on use of appropriations

No part of the appropriations made by Congress for the Howard University shall be used, directly or indirectly, for the support of the theological department of said university, nor for the support of any sectarian, denominational, or religious instruction therein; and no part thereof shall be paid to said university until it shall accord to the Secretary of Education, or to his designated agent or agents, authority to visit and inspect such university and to control and supervise the expenditure therein of all moneys paid under said appropriations.

*([Mar. 3, 1899, ch. 424](/us/act/1899-03-03/ch424), [30 Stat. 1101](/us/stat/30/1101); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. IV, § 11(c), eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2422, [54 Stat. 1237](/us/stat/54/1237); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, §§ 5, 8, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(2)(M)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/2/M), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 678](/us/stat/93/678), 692.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Similar prior provisions were contained in [act July 1, 1898, ch. 546](/us/act/1898-07-01/ch546), [30 Stat. 624](/us/stat/30/624).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Education” substituted in text for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to sections 301(a)(2)(M) and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441(a)(2)(M) and 3507 of this title and which transferred all functions of Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under this subchapter to Secretary of Education.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Federal Security Administrator transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and all agencies of Federal Security Agency transferred to Department of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 5 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Federal Security Agency and office of Administrator abolished by section 8 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953.

Functions of Department of the Interior relating to administration of Howard University transferred to Federal Security Agency to be administered under direction and supervision of Federal Security Administrator by Reorg. Plan No. IV of 1940, set out as a note in the Appendix to Title 5.
