---
title: "§ 2264. Suspension or removal of director or officer"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2264"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2264"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–181, title V, § 5](/us/pl/92/181/tV/s5).28, as added [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 204](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s204), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1696](/us/stat/99/1696); amended [Pub. L. 100–233, title VIII, § 805(aa)](/us/pl/100/233/tVIII/s805/aa), Jan. 6, 1988, [101 Stat. 1717](/us/stat/101/1717); [Pub. L. 100–399, title VII, § 702(d)](/us/pl/100/399/tVII/s702/d), Aug. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 1006](/us/stat/102/1006).)"
---
# § 2264. Suspension or removal of director or officer

##### § 2264. Suspension or removal of director or officer

(a) Written notice of intention to remove; violation of law, rule, regulation, or final cease and desist order; unsafe or unsound practice; breach of fiduciary duty Whenever, in the opinion of the Farm Credit Administration, any director or officer of any institution in the Farm Credit System has committed any violation of law, rule, or regulation or of a cease and desist order that has become final, or has engaged or participated in any unsafe or unsound practice in connection with the institution, or has committed or engaged in any act, omission, or practice which constitutes a breach of a fiduciary duty as such director or officer, and the Farm Credit Administration determines that the institution has suffered or will probably suffer substantial financial loss or other damage or that the interests of its shareholders or investors in Farm Credit System obligations could be seriously prejudiced by reason of such violation or practice or breach of fiduciary duty, or that the director or officer has received financial gain by reason of such violation or practice or breach of fiduciary duty, and that such violation or practice or breach of fiduciary duty is one involving personal dishonesty on the part of such director or officer, or one that demonstrates a willful or continuing disregard for the safety or soundness of the System institution, the Farm Credit Administration may serve upon such director or officer a written notice of its intention to remove him from office.

(b) Written notice of intention to remove or suspend director, officer or other person; personal dishonesty; willful or continuing disregard; unfitness to continue in office or to participate in affairs of institution Whenever, in the opinion of the Farm Credit Administration, any director or officer of an institution in the Farm Credit System, by conduct or practice with respect to another institution in the Farm Credit System or other business institution that resulted in substantial financial loss or other damage, has evidenced either his personal dishonesty or a willful or continuing disregard for its safety and soundness and, in addition, has evidenced his unfitness to continue as a director or officer, and whenever, in the opinion of the Farm Credit Administration, any other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of an institution in the Farm Credit System, by the conduct or practice with respect to such institution or other institution in the Farm Credit System or other business institution that resulted in substantial financial loss or other damage, has evidenced either personal dishonesty or a willful or continuing disregard for its safety and soundness and, in addition, has evidenced his unfitness to participate in the conduct of the affairs of such institution, the Farm Credit Administration may serve upon such director, officer, or other person a written notice of its intention to remove that director, officer, or other person from office or to prohibit his further participation in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of the institution.

(c) Suspension from office; prohibition from further participation in conduct of affairs of institution; service of notice In respect to any director or officer of an institution in the Farm Credit System or any other person referred to in subsection (a) or (b) of this section, the Farm Credit Administration may, if it deems it necessary for the protection of the institution or the interests of its shareholders and the investors in the Farm Credit System obligations, by written notice to such effect served upon such director, officer, or other person, suspend such director, officer, or other person from office or prohibit such director, officer, or other person from further participation in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of the institution. Such suspension or prohibition shall become effective upon service of such notice and, unless stayed by a court in proceedings authorized by subsection (e) of this section, shall remain in effect pending the completion of the administrative proceedings pursuant to the notice served under subsection (a) or (b) and until such time as the Farm Credit Administration shall dismiss the charges specified in such notice, or, if an order of removal or prohibition is issued against the director or officer or other person, until the effective date of any such order. Copies of any such notice shall also be served upon the institution of which the person is a director or officer or in the conduct of whose affairs the person has participated.

(d) Statement of grounds for removal or prohibition; notice and hearing; order of suspension, removal or prohibition; service of order A notice of intention to remove a director, officer, or other person from office or to prohibit such director’s, officer’s, or other person’s participation in the conduct of the affairs of an institution in the Farm Credit System, shall contain a statement of the facts constituting grounds therefor, and shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held thereon. Such hearing shall be fixed for a date not earlier than thirty days nor later than sixty days after the date of service of such notice, unless an earlier or a later date is set by the Farm Credit Administration at the request of (1) such director or officer or other person, and for good cause shown, or (2) the Attorney General of the United States. Unless such director, officer, or other person shall appear at the hearing in person or by a duly authorized representative, such director, officer, or other person shall be deemed to have consented to the issuance of an order of such removal or prohibition. In the event of such consent, or if upon the record made at any such hearing the Farm Credit Administration shall find that any of the grounds specified in such notice have been established, the Farm Credit Administration may issue such orders of suspension or removal from office, or prohibition from participation in the conduct of the affairs of the institution, as it may deem appropriate. A copy of an order issued under this subsection shall be served upon the institution concerned. Any such order shall become effective at the expiration of thirty days after service upon such institution and the director, officer, or other person concerned (except in the case of an order issued upon consent, which shall become effective at the time specified therein). Such order shall remain effective and enforceable except to such extent as it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by action of the agency or a reviewing court.

(e) Stay of suspension or prohibition Within ten days after any director, officer, or other person has been suspended from office or prohibited from participation in the conduct of the affairs of a System institution under subsection (c) of this section, such director, officer, or other person may apply to the United States district court for the judicial district in which the home office of the institution is located, or the United States district court for the District of Columbia, for a stay of either such suspension or prohibition, or both, pending the completion of the administrative proceedings pursuant to the notice served upon such director, officer, or other person under subsection (a) or (b), and such court shall have jurisdiction to stay either such suspension or prohibition, or both.

*([Pub. L. 92–181, title V, § 5](/us/pl/92/181/tV/s5).28, as added [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 204](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s204), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1696](/us/stat/99/1696); amended [Pub. L. 100–233, title VIII, § 805(aa)](/us/pl/100/233/tVIII/s805/aa), Jan. 6, 1988, [101 Stat. 1717](/us/stat/101/1717); [Pub. L. 100–399, title VII, § 702(d)](/us/pl/100/399/tVII/s702/d), Aug. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 1006](/us/stat/102/1006).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5.28 of [Pub. L. 92–181](/us/pl/92/181) was renumbered section 5.42 and is set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2001).

#### Amendments

1988—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 100–233, § 805(aa)(1)](/us/pl/100/233/s805/aa/1), designated provisions preceding subsec. (b) as subsec. (a).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 100–399](/us/pl/100/399) substituted “subsection (c)” for “subsection (d)”.

[Pub. L. 100–233, § 805(aa)(2)](/us/pl/100/233/s805/aa/2), substituted “subsection (d) of this section” for “subsection (d)(3) of this section”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–399](/us/pl/100/399) effective as if enacted immediately after enactment of [Pub. L. 100–233](/us/pl/100/233), which was approved Jan. 6, 1988, see [section 1001(a) of Pub. L. 100–399](/us/pl/100/399/s1001/a), set out as a note under [section 2002 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2002).

#### Effective Date

Section effective thirty days after Dec. 23, 1985, see [section 401 of Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205/s401), set out as an Effective Date of 1985 Amendment note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2001).
