---
title: "§ 2461a. Development and implementation of system for monitoring cost saving resulting from public-private competitions"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2461a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2461a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title III, § 354(a)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–73; amended [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title X, § 1048(a)(21)](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tX/s1048/a/21), (c)(11), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/115/1224), 1226; [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title III, § 341(d)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tIII/s341/d), (g)(2)(C), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3199](/us/stat/119/3199), 3200.)"
---
# § 2461a. Development and implementation of system for monitoring cost saving resulting from public-private competitions

##### § 2461a. Development and implementation of system for monitoring cost saving resulting from public-private competitions

(a) System for Monitoring Performance.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense shall monitor the performance, including the cost of performance, of each function of the Department of Defense that, after October 30, 2000, is the subject of a public-private competition conducted under [section 2461 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2461).

(2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—

(A) compare the cost of performing the function before the public-private competition to the cost of performing the function after the implementation of the results of the public-private competition; and

(B) identify any actual savings of the Department of Defense after the implementation of the results of the public-private competition and compare such savings to the estimated savings identified pursuant to [section 2461(a)(1)(E) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2461/a/1/E) for that public-private competition;

(3) The monitoring of a function shall continue under this section for at least five years after the conversion, reorganization, or reengineering of the function pursuant to such a public-private competition.

(b) Consideration in Preparation of Future-Years Defense Program.— In preparing the future-years defense program under [section 221 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s221), the Secretary of Defense shall, for the fiscal years covered by the program, estimate and take into account the costs to be incurred and the savings to be derived from the performance of functions by workforces selected in public-private competitions conducted under [section 2461 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2461). The Secretary shall consider the results of the monitoring under this section in making the estimates.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title III, § 354(a)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–73; amended [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title X, § 1048(a)(21)](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tX/s1048/a/21), (c)(11), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/115/1224), 1226; [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title III, § 341(d)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tIII/s341/d), (g)(2)(C), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3199](/us/stat/119/3199), 3200.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–163, § 341(g)(2)(C)](/us/pl/109/163/s341/g/2/C), substituted “Development and implementation of system for monitoring cost saving resulting from public-private competitions” for “Development of system for monitoring cost savings resulting from workforce reductions” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 341(d)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/s341/d/1), (2), redesignated subsec. (b) as (a) and struck out former subsec. (a) which defined “workforce review”.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 341(d)(3)(A)](/us/pl/109/163/s341/d/3/A), substituted “monitor” for “establish a system for monitoring” and “a public-private competition conducted under [section 2461 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2461)” for “a workforce review”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 341(d)(3)(B)](/us/pl/109/163/s341/d/3/B), added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2) which established requirements for the monitoring system.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 341(d)(3)(C)](/us/pl/109/163/s341/d/3/C), inserted “pursuant to such a public-private competition” after “reengineering of the function”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 341(d)(4)](/us/pl/109/163/s341/d/4), substituted “public-private competitions conducted under [section 2461 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2461)” for “workforce reviews”.

[Pub. L. 109–163, § 341(d)(2)](/us/pl/109/163/s341/d/2), redesignated subsec. (e) as (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (a).

Subsecs. (c) to (e). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 341(d)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/s341/d/1), (2), redesignated subsec. (e) as (b) and struck out former subsecs. (c) and (d) which related to waiver for certain workforce reviews and annual report, respectively.

2001—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 107–107, § 1048(a)(21)](/us/pl/107/107/s1048/a/21), substituted “efficiency” for “effeciency”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 107–107, § 1048(c)(11)](/us/pl/107/107/s1048/c/11), substituted “October 30, 2000,” for “the date of the enactment of this section,”.
