---
title: "§ 351. Disposal of patient records"
identifier: "USC-T11-S351"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section351"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–8, title XI, § 1102(a)](/us/pl/109/8/tXI/s1102/a), Apr. 20, 2005, [119 Stat. 189](/us/stat/119/189).)"
---
# § 351. Disposal of patient records

##### § 351. Disposal of patient records

(1) The trustee shall—

(A) promptly publish notice, in 1 or more appropriate newspapers, that if patient records are not claimed by the patient or an insurance provider (if applicable law permits the insurance provider to make that claim) by the date that is 365 days after the date of that notification, the trustee will destroy the patient records; and

(B) during the first 180 days of the 365-day period described in subparagraph (A), promptly attempt to notify directly each patient that is the subject of the patient records and appropriate insurance carrier concerning the patient records by mailing to the most recent known address of that patient, or a family member or contact person for that patient, and to the appropriate insurance carrier an appropriate notice regarding the claiming or disposing of patient records.

(2) If, after providing the notification under paragraph (1), patient records are not claimed during the 365-day period described under that paragraph, the trustee shall mail, by certified mail, at the end of such 365-day period a written request to each appropriate Federal agency to request permission from that agency to deposit the patient records with that agency, except that no Federal agency is required to accept patient records under this paragraph.

(3) If, following the 365-day period described in paragraph (2) and after providing the notification under paragraph (1), patient records are not claimed by a patient or insurance provider, or request is not granted by a Federal agency to deposit such records with that agency, the trustee shall destroy those records by—

(A) if the records are written, shredding or burning the records; or

(B) if the records are magnetic, optical, or other electronic records, by otherwise destroying those records so that those records cannot be retrieved.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–8, title XI, § 1102(a)](/us/pl/109/8/tXI/s1102/a), Apr. 20, 2005, [119 Stat. 189](/us/stat/119/189).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Apr. 20, 2005, and not applicable with respect to cases commenced under this title before such effective date, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1501 of Pub. L. 109–8](/us/pl/109/8/s1501), set out as an Effective Date of 2005 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).
