---
title: "§ 854. Investment of illicit drug profits"
identifier: "USC-T21-S854"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section854"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–513, title II, § 414](/us/pl/91/513/tII/s414), as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 303](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s303), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2049](/us/stat/98/2049).)"
---
# § 854. Investment of illicit drug profits

##### § 854. Investment of illicit drug profits

(a) Prohibition It shall be unlawful for any person who has received any income derived, directly or indirectly, from a violation of this subchapter or subchapter II punishable by imprisonment for more than one year in which such person has participated as a principal within the meaning of [section 2 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2), to use or invest, directly or indirectly, any part of such income, or the proceeds of such income, in acquisition of any interest in, or the establishment or operation of, any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect interstate or foreign commerce. A purchase of securities on the open market for purposes of investment, and without the intention of controlling or participating in the control of the issuer, or of assisting another to do so, shall not be unlawful under this section if the securities of the issuer held by the purchaser, the members of his immediate family, and his or their accomplices in any violation of this subchapter or subchapter II after such purchase do not amount in the aggregate to 1 per centum of the outstanding securities of any one class, and do not confer, either in law or in fact, the power to elect one or more directors of the issuer.

(b) Penalty Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $50,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.

(c) “Enterprise” defined As used in this section, the term “enterprise” includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity.

(d) Construction The provisions of this section shall be liberally construed to effectuate its remedial purposes.

*([Pub. L. 91–513, title II, § 414](/us/pl/91/513/tII/s414), as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 303](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s303), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2049](/us/stat/98/2049).)*
