---
title: "§ 3614. Tribal judicial conferences"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3614"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3614"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–176, title I, § 104](/us/pl/103/176/tI/s104), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2008](/us/stat/107/2008).)"
---
# § 3614. Tribal judicial conferences

##### § 3614. Tribal judicial conferences

(1) the employment of judges, magistrates, court counselors, court clerks, court administrators, bailiffs, probation officers, officers of the court, or dispute resolution facilitators;

(2) the development, revision, and publication of tribal codes, rules of practice, rules of procedure, and standards of judicial performance and conduct;

(3) the acquisition, development, and maintenance of a law library and computer assisted legal research capacities;

(4) training programs and continuing education for tribal judicial personnel;

(5) the development and operation of records management systems;

(6) planning for the development, enhancement, and operation of tribal justice systems; and

(7) the development and operation of other innovative and culturally relevant programs and projects, including (but not limited to) programs and projects for—

(A) alternative dispute resolution;

(B) tribal victims assistance or victims services;

(C) tribal probation services or diversion programs;

(D) juvenile services and multidisciplinary investigations of child abuse; and

(E) traditional tribal judicial practices, traditional justice systems, and traditional methods of dispute resolution.

*([Pub. L. 103–176, title I, § 104](/us/pl/103/176/tI/s104), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2008](/us/stat/107/2008).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which is classified principally to chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.
