---
title: "§ 2652. Regulations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2652"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2652"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–693, § 2](/us/pl/87/693/s2), Sept. 25, 1962, [76 Stat. 593](/us/stat/76/593).)"
---
# § 2652. Regulations

##### § 2652. Regulations

(a) Determination and establishment of reasonable value of care and treatment The President may prescribe regulations to carry out this chapter, including regulations with respect to the determination and establishment of the reasonable value of the hospital, medical, surgical, or dental care and treatment (including prostheses and medical appliances) furnished or to be furnished.

(b) Settlement, release and waiver of claims To the extent prescribed by regulations under subsection (a), the head of the department or agency of the United States concerned may (1) compromise, or settle and execute a release of, any claim which the United States has by virtue of the right established by [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2651); or (2) waive any such claim, in whole or in part, for the convenience of the Government, or if he determines that collection would result in undue hardship upon the person who suffered the injury or disease resulting in care or treatment described in [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2651).

(c) Damages recoverable for personal injury unaffected No action taken by the United States in connection with the rights afforded under this legislation shall operate to deny to the injured person the recovery for that portion of his damage not covered hereunder.

*([Pub. L. 87–693, § 2](/us/pl/87/693/s2), Sept. 25, 1962, [76 Stat. 593](/us/stat/76/593).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 11060. Delegation of Authority To Prescribe Regulations

Ex. Ord. No. 11060, Nov. 7, 1962, 27 F.R. 10925, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 12608, Sept. 9, 1987, 52 F.R. 34617, provided:

Under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by Title 3 of the United States Code and by [Section 2(a) of the Act of September 25, 1962](/us/act/1962-09-25/s2/a) ([Public Law 87–693](/us/pl/87/693)) [subsec. (a) of this section], it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, for the purposes of the Act of September 25, 1962, [this chapter], from time to time, determine and establish rates that represent the reasonable value of hospital, medical, surgical, or dental care and treatment (including prostheses and medical appliances) furnished or to be furnished.

Sec. 2. Except as provided in Section 1 of this order, the Attorney General shall prescribe regulations to carry out the purposes of the Act of September 25, 1962 [this chapter].
