---
title: "§ 2518. Seal and name"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2518"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2518"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–293, title I, § 19](/us/pl/87/293/tI/s19), Sept. 22, 1961, [75 Stat. 623](/us/stat/75/623); [Pub. L. 88–200, § 7](/us/pl/88/200/s7), Dec. 13, 1963, [77 Stat. 360](/us/stat/77/360).)"
---
# § 2518. Seal and name

##### § 2518. Seal and name

(a) Judicial notice The President may adopt, alter, and use an official seal or emblem of the Peace Corps of such design as he shall determine, which shall be judicially noticed.

(b) Exclusiveness of use; penalties for violations; injunctions

(1) The use of the official seal or emblem and the use of the name “Peace Corps” shall be restricted exclusively to designate programs authorized under this chapter.

(2) Whoever, whether an individual, partnership, corporation, or association, uses the seal for which provision is made in this section, or any sign, insignia, or symbol in colorable imitation thereof, or the words “Peace Corps” or any combination of these or other words or characters in colorable imitation thereof, other than to designate programs authorized under this chapter, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. A violation of this subsection may be enjoined at the suit of the Attorney General, United States attorneys, or other persons duly authorized to represent the United States.

*([Pub. L. 87–293, title I, § 19](/us/pl/87/293/tI/s19), Sept. 22, 1961, [75 Stat. 623](/us/stat/75/623); [Pub. L. 88–200, § 7](/us/pl/88/200/s7), Dec. 13, 1963, [77 Stat. 360](/us/stat/77/360).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 87–293](/us/pl/87/293), Sept. 22, 1961, [75 Stat. 612](/us/stat/75/612), known as the Peace Corps Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2501 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2501) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1963—[Pub. L. 88–200](/us/pl/88/200) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under this section, except authority to adopt and alter an official seal or emblem, delegated to Director of Peace Corps by section 1–103 of Ex. Ord. No. 12137, May 16, 1979, 44 F.R. 29023, eff. May 16, 1979, set out as a note under [section 2501 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2501).
