---
title: "§ 564. Administration of sexual assault forensic examination kits"
identifier: "USC-T14-S564"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section564"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, § 11272(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXII/s11272/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4066](/us/stat/136/4066); amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7269(a)(2)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7269/a/2), (c), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1745](/us/stat/139/1745), 1746.)"
---
# § 564. Administration of sexual assault forensic examination kits

##### § 564. Administration of sexual assault forensic examination kits

(a) Sexual Assault Forensic Exam Procedure.—

(1) In general.— Before embarking on any prescheduled voyage, a Coast Guard vessel shall have in place a written operating procedure that ensures that an embarked victim of sexual assault shall have access to a sexual assault forensic examination—

(A) as soon as possible after the victim requests an examination; and

(B) that is treated with the same level of urgency as emergency medical care.

(2) Requirements.— The written operating procedure required by paragraph (1) shall, at a minimum, account for—

(A) the health, safety, and privacy of a victim of sexual assault;

(B) the proximity of ashore or afloat medical facilities, including coordination as necessary with the Department of Defense, including other military departments (as defined in [section 101 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101));

(C) the availability of aeromedical evacuation;

(D) the operational capabilities of the vessel concerned;

(E) the qualifications of medical personnel onboard;

(F) coordination with law enforcement and the preservation of evidence;

(G) the means of accessing a sexual assault forensic examination and medical care with a restricted report of sexual assault;

(H) the availability of nonprescription pregnancy prophylactics; and

(I) other unique military considerations.

(b) Annual Report.— The Commandant shall submit to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee of the House of Representatives and the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee of the Senate a report containing the number of sexual assault forensic examinations that were requested by, but not administered within 3 days to, alleged victims of sexual assault when such victims were onboard a Coast Guard vessel.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, § 11272(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXII/s11272/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4066](/us/stat/136/4066); amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7269(a)(2)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7269/a/2), (c), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1745](/us/stat/139/1745), 1746.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The text of [section 11272(c)(5) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s11272/c/5), formerly set out as a note under this section, which was transferred to this section and redesignated as subsec. (b) by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7269(a)(2)](/us/pl/119/60/s7269/a/2), was based on [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, § 11272(c)(5)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXII/s11272/c/5), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4067](/us/stat/136/4067), as amended by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7269(a)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7269/a/1), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1745](/us/stat/139/1745).

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7269(c)](/us/pl/119/60/s7269/c), struck out comma after “paragraph (1)”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7269(a)(2)](/us/pl/119/60/s7269/a/2), transferred [section 11272(c)(5) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s11272/c/5) to this section and redesignated it as subsec. (b). See Codification note above. Heading was editorially conformed to the style used for subsection headings in this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Annual Report

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, § 11272(c)(5)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXII/s11272/c/5), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4067](/us/stat/136/4067), as amended by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7269(a)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7269/a/1), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1745](/us/stat/139/1745), formerly set out as a note under this section, was transferred to subsec. (b) of this section.
