---
title: "§ 3030f. Program authorized"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3030f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3030f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–73, title III, § 336](/us/pl/89/73/tIII/s336), as added [Pub. L. 95–478, title I, § 103(b)](/us/pl/95/478/tI/s103/b), Oct. 18, 1978, [92 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/92/1536); amended [Pub. L. 102–375, title III, § 314](/us/pl/102/375/tIII/s314), Sept. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 1238](/us/stat/106/1238); [Pub. L. 103–171, § 3(a)(13)](/us/pl/103/171/s3/a/13), Dec. 2, 1993, [107 Stat. 1990](/us/stat/107/1990); [Pub. L. 109–365, title III, § 314](/us/pl/109/365/tIII/s314), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. "
---
# § 3030f. Program authorized

##### § 3030f. Program authorized

(1) on 5 or more days a week (except in a rural area where such frequency is not feasible (as defined by the Assistant Secretary by rule) and a lesser frequency is approved by the State agency) at least 1 home delivered meal per day, which may consist of hot, cold, frozen, dried, canned, or fresh foods and, as appropriate, supplemental foods, and any additional meals that the recipient of a grant or contract under this subpart elects to provide; and

(2) nutrition education, nutrition counseling, and other nutrition services, as appropriate, based on the needs of meal recipients.

*([Pub. L. 89–73, title III, § 336](/us/pl/89/73/tIII/s336), as added [Pub. L. 95–478, title I, § 103(b)](/us/pl/95/478/tI/s103/b), Oct. 18, 1978, [92 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/92/1536); amended [Pub. L. 102–375, title III, § 314](/us/pl/102/375/tIII/s314), Sept. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 1238](/us/stat/106/1238); [Pub. L. 103–171, § 3(a)(13)](/us/pl/103/171/s3/a/13), Dec. 2, 1993, [107 Stat. 1990](/us/stat/107/1990); [Pub. L. 109–365, title III, § 314](/us/pl/109/365/tIII/s314), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2548](/us/stat/120/2548); [Pub. L. 114–144, § 4(h)](/us/pl/114/144/s4/h), Apr. 19, 2016, [130 Stat. 339](/us/stat/130/339).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 114–144](/us/pl/114/144) substituted “canned, or fresh foods and, as appropriate, supplemental foods, and any additional meals” for “canned, fresh, or supplemental foods and any additional meals”.

2006—[Pub. L. 109–365](/us/pl/109/365) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Assistant Secretary shall carry out a program for making grants to States under State plans approved under [section 3027 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3027) for the establishment and operation of nutrition projects for older individuals which, 5 or more days a week (except in a rural area where such frequency is not feasible (as defined by the Assistant Secretary by regulation) and a lesser frequency is approved by the State agency), provide at least one home delivered hot, cold, frozen, dried, canned, or supplemental foods (with a satisfactory storage life) meal per day and any additional meals which the recipient of a grant or contract under this subpart may elect to provide.”

1993—[Pub. L. 103–171](/us/pl/103/171) substituted “Assistant Secretary” for “Commissioner” in two places.

1992—[Pub. L. 102–375](/us/pl/102/375) inserted “(except in a rural area where such frequency is not feasible (as defined by the Commissioner by regulation) and a lesser frequency is approved by the State agency)” after “week” and struck out before period at end “, each of which assures a minimum of one-third of the daily recommended dietary allowances as established by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective at close of Sept. 30, 1978, see [section 504 of Pub. L. 95–478](/us/pl/95/478/s504), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3001).
