---
title: "§ 583k–1. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S583k–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section583k–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–245, § 3](/us/pl/114/245/s3), Nov. 28, 2016, [130 Stat. 990](/us/stat/130/990).)"
---
# § 583k–1. Definitions

##### § 583k–1. Definitions

(1) Administrative Unit The term “Administrative Unit” means a national forest or national grassland.

(2) Outfitter or guide The term “outfitter or guide” means an individual, organization, or business who provides outfitting or guiding services, as defined in section 251.51 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations.

(3) Partner The term “partner” means a non-Federal entity that engages in a partnership.

(4) Partnership The term “partnership” means arrangements between the Department of Agriculture or the Forest Service and a non-Federal entity that are voluntary, mutually beneficial, and entered into for the purpose of mutually agreed-upon objectives.

(5) Priority area The term “priority area” means a well-defined region on National Forest System land selected by the Secretary under [section 583k–3(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s583k–3/a).

(6) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.

(7) Strategy The term “strategy” means the National Forest System Trails Volunteer and Partnership Strategy authorized by [section 583k–2(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s583k–2/a).

(8) Trail maintenance The term “trail maintenance” means any activity to maintain the usability and sustainability of trails within the National Forest System, including—

(A) ensuring trails are passable by the users for which they are managed;

(B) preventing environmental damage resulting from trail deterioration;

(C) protecting public safety; and

(D) averting future deferred maintenance costs.

(9) Volunteer The term “volunteer” means an individual whose services are accepted by the Secretary without compensation under the Volunteers in the National Forests Act of 1972 ([16 U.S.C. 558a](/us/usc/t16/s558a) et seq.).11 See References in Text note below.

*([Pub. L. 114–245, § 3](/us/pl/114/245/s3), Nov. 28, 2016, [130 Stat. 990](/us/stat/130/990).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Volunteers in the National Forests Act of 1972, referred to in par. (9), is [Pub. L. 92–300](/us/pl/92/300), May 18, 1972, [86 Stat. 147](/us/stat/86/147), which was classified generally to former sections 558a to 558d of this title, prior to being amended generally and renamed the Volunteers in the National Forests and Public Lands Act by [Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 341](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s341), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2913](/us/stat/138/2913). [Section 342 of Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234/s342), set out as a note under [section 558a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s558a), provides that a reference in any law to the Volunteers in National Forests Act of 1972 shall be deemed to be a reference to the Volunteers in the National Forests and Public Lands Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 558a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s558a) and Tables.
