---
title: "§ 390h–23. Southern California desert region integrated water and economic sustainability plan"
identifier: "USC-T43-S390h–23"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section390h–23"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–575, title XVI, § 16](/us/pl/102/575/tXVI/s16)——, as added [Pub. L. 110–161, div. C, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dC/tII/s214/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1955](/us/stat/121/1955).)"
---
# § 390h–23. Southern California desert region integrated water and economic sustainability plan

##### § 390h–23. Southern California desert region integrated water and economic sustainability plan

(a) Authorization The Secretary, in cooperation with the Mojave Water Agency is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of projects to implement the “Mojave Water Agency’s Integrated Regional Water Management Plan”.

(b) Cost share The Federal share of the costs of the projects authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $20,000,000.

*([Pub. L. 102–575, title XVI, § 16](/us/pl/102/575/tXVI/s16)——, as added [Pub. L. 110–161, div. C, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dC/tII/s214/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1955](/us/stat/121/1955).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is based on section “16——” of [Pub. L. 102–575](/us/pl/102/575). Two other sections “16——” of [Pub. L. 102–575](/us/pl/102/575) have been enacted and are classified to sections 390h–21 and 390h–22 of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Limitation on Funds; Credits Toward Non-Federal Share

[Pub. L. 110–161, div. C, title II, § 214(c)](/us/pl/110/161/dC/tII/s214/c), (d), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1956](/us/stat/121/1956), provided that: “(c) Limitation.—The Secretary [of the Interior] shall not provide funds for the operation or maintenance of a project authorized by this section [enacting this section]. “(d) Credits Toward Non-Federal Share.—For purposes of subsection (b) [probably means subsec. (b) of this section] the Secretary shall credit the Mojave Water Agency with the value of all expenditures made prior to the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 26, 2007] that are used toward completion of projects that are compatible with this section.”
