---
title: "§ 9205. Budget and report"
identifier: "USC-T7-S9205"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section9205"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. P, § 6](/us/pl/116/260/dP/s6), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2161](/us/stat/134/2161).)"
---
# § 9205. Budget and report

##### § 9205. Budget and report

(a) Budget Concurrently with each budget submission to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, as required by Homeland Security Presidential Directive 9, shall jointly submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget an integrated budget plan for the defense and protection of the food supply of the United States, including the operation and use of the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility.

(b) Report Not later than 60 days after the date on which the budget of the United States Government is submitted by the President under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105) for each fiscal year, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies shall jointly submit to Congress a report describing an integrated budget plan described in subsection (a), which shall be consistent with the budget submission of the President under that section for the defense and protection of the food supply of the United States, including the operation and use of the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. P, § 6](/us/pl/116/260/dP/s6), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2161](/us/stat/134/2161).)*
