---
title: "§ 3351a. Making certain policies and execution plans relating to personnel clearances available to industry partners"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3351a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3351a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LIV, § 5402](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLIV/s5402), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2143](/us/stat/133/2143).)"
---
# § 3351a. Making certain policies and execution plans relating to personnel clearances available to industry partners

##### § 3351a. Making certain policies and execution plans relating to personnel clearances available to industry partners

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Security executive agent The term “Security Executive Agent” means the officer serving as the Security Executive Agent pursuant to [section 3162a of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3162a).

(2) Appropriate industry partner The term “appropriate industry partner” means a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as defined in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note; relating to National Industrial Security Program), as in effect on the day before December 20, 2019) that is participating in the National Industrial Security Program established by such Executive Order.

(b) Sharing of policies and plans required Each head of a Federal agency shall share policies and plans relating to security clearances with appropriate industry partners directly affected by such policies and plans in a manner consistent with the protection of national security as well as the goals and objectives of the National Industrial Security Program administered pursuant to Executive Order 12829 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note; relating to the National Industrial Security Program).

(c) Development of policies and procedures required Not later than 90 days after December 20, 2019, the Security Executive Agent and the Director of the National Industrial Security Program shall jointly develop policies and procedures by which appropriate industry partners with proper security clearances and a need to know can have appropriate access to the policies and plans shared pursuant to subsection (b) that directly affect those industry partners.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LIV, § 5402](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLIV/s5402), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2143](/us/stat/133/2143).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order 12829, referred to in subsecs. (a)(2) and (b), is Ex. Ord. No. 12829, Jan. 6, 1993, 58 F.R. 3479, which is set out as a note under [section 3161 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3161).
