---
title: "§ 8471. Midshipmen’s store, trade shops, dairy, and laundry: nonappropriated fund instrumentality and accounts"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8471"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8471"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 435](/us/stat/70A/435), § 6971; [Pub. L. 89–718, § 38](/us/pl/89/718/s38), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1120](/us/stat/80/1120); [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, § 376](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIII/s376), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2736](/us/stat/108/2736); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title III, § 370(a)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tIII/s370/a), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/110/2498); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2871(c)(1)]("
---
# § 8471. Midshipmen’s store, trade shops, dairy, and laundry: nonappropriated fund instrumentality and accounts

##### § 8471. Midshipmen’s store, trade shops, dairy, and laundry: nonappropriated fund instrumentality and accounts

(a) Operation as Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality.— The Superintendent of the Naval Academy shall operate the Naval Academy activities referred to in subsection (b) as a nonappropriated fund instrumentality under the jurisdiction of the Navy.

(b) Covered Activities.— The nonappropriated fund instrumentality required under subsection (a) shall consist of the following Naval Academy activities:

(1) The midshipmen’s store.

(2) The barber shop.

(3) The cobbler shop.

(4) The tailor shop.

(5) The dairy (if any).

(6) The laundry.

(c) Nonappropriated Fund Accounts.— The Superintendent of the Naval Academy shall administer a separate nonappropriated fund account for each of the Naval Academy activities included in the nonappropriated fund instrumentality required under subsection (a).

(d) Crediting of Revenue.— The Superintendent shall credit all revenue received from a Naval Academy activity referred to in subsection (b) to the account administered with respect to that activity under subsection (c), and amounts so credited shall be available for operating expenses of that activity.

(e) Regulations.— This section shall be carried out under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 435](/us/stat/70A/435), § 6971; [Pub. L. 89–718, § 38](/us/pl/89/718/s38), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1120](/us/stat/80/1120); [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, § 376](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIII/s376), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2736](/us/stat/108/2736); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title III, § 370(a)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tIII/s370/a), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/110/2498); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2871(c)(1)](/us/pl/105/85/dB/tXXVIII/s2871/c/1), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2015](/us/stat/111/2015); renumbered § 8471, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/c/1), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)*

In subsection (a) the second listing of the activities is omitted for brevity.

In subsection (b) the words “including midshipmen” are omitted as surplusage. The words “are available for the maintenance of” are substituted for the words “are appropriated for the purpose of providing and maintaining”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6971(a) | 34 U.S.C. 1108b (less last proviso). | July 26, 1946, ch. 675, § 2 (less last proviso), 60 Stat. 704. |
| 6971(b) | 34 U.S.C. 1106. | Aug. 5, 1939, ch. 448, § 1, 53 Stat. 1210. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 6971 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s6971) as this section.

1997—Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) inserted “(if any)” before period at end.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) substituted “trade shops, dairy, and laundry: nonappropriated fund instrumentality and accounts” for “laundry, barber shop, cobbler shop, tailor shop, and dairy: disposition of funds” in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text consisted of one undesignated par. providing for deposit and expenditure of funds from operation of midshipmen’s store, including barber shop, cobbler shop, and tailor shop at Naval Academy, Academy dairy, and Academy laundry.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337) struck out “(a)” before “Funds collected from the operation of the midshipmen’s”, substituted “the Academy dairy, and the Academy laundry” for “and the Academy dairy”, and struck out subsec. (b) which read as follows: “Funds collected from the operation of the Academy laundry shall be accounted for as public funds and are available for the maintenance of necessary laundry service for Academy activities and personnel.”

1966—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 89–718](/us/pl/89/718) substituted “person designated by the Secretary of the Navy under [section 6970(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s6970/b)” for “Bureau of Supplies and Accounts”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 370(e) of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s370/e), set out as a note under [section 2105 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2105), Government Organization and Employees.
