---
title: "§ 12601a. Transfer of funds; notice to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12601a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12601a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–8, div. F, title IV, § 409](/us/pl/111/8/dF/tIV/s409), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 796](/us/stat/123/796).)"
---
# § 12601a. Transfer of funds; notice to Congress

##### § 12601a. Transfer of funds; notice to Congress

For fiscal year 2009 and thereafter, in addition to amounts otherwise provided to the National Service Trust, at no later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds are appropriated or otherwise made available, unobligated balances of appropriations available for grants under the National Service Trust Program under subtitle C of title I of the 1990 Act [[42 U.S.C. 12571](/us/usc/t42/s12571) et seq.] during such fiscal year may be transferred to the National Service Trust after notice is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, if such funds are initially obligated before the expiration of their period of availability.

*([Pub. L. 111–8, div. F, title IV, § 409](/us/pl/111/8/dF/tIV/s409), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 796](/us/stat/123/796).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The 1990 Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 101–610](/us/pl/101/610), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3127](/us/stat/104/3127), known as the National and Community Service Act of 1990. Subtitle C of title I of the Act is classified generally to division C (§ 12571 et seq.) of this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 12501 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12501) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the appropriation act cited as the credit to this section, and not as part of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Similar Provisions

Similar provisions were contained in the following prior appropriation act:

[Pub. L. 110–161, div. G, title IV](/us/pl/110/161/dG/tIV), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2200](/us/stat/121/2200).
