---
title: "§ 591. Deduction for dividends paid on deposits"
identifier: "USC-T26-S591"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section591"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 204](/us/stat/68A/204); [Pub. L. 87–834, § 6(f)](/us/pl/87/834/s6/f), Oct. 16, 1962, [76 Stat. 984](/us/stat/76/984); [Pub. L. 97–34, title II, § 245(a)](/us/pl/97/34/tII/s245/a), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 255](/us/stat/95/255).)"
---
# § 591. Deduction for dividends paid on deposits

##### § 591. Deduction for dividends paid on deposits

(a) In general In the case of mutual savings banks, cooperative banks, domestic building and loan associations, and other savings institutions chartered and supervised as savings and loan or similar associations under Federal or State law, there shall be allowed as deductions in computing taxable income amounts paid to, or credited to the accounts of, depositors or holders of accounts as dividends or interest on their deposits or withdrawable accounts, if such amounts paid or credited are withdrawable on demand subject only to customary notice of intention to withdraw.

(b) Mutual savings bank to include certain banks with capital stock For purposes of this part, the term “mutual savings bank” includes any bank—

(1) which has capital stock represented by shares, and

(2) which is subject to, and operates under, Federal or State laws relating to mutual savings bank.

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 204](/us/stat/68A/204); [Pub. L. 87–834, § 6(f)](/us/pl/87/834/s6/f), Oct. 16, 1962, [76 Stat. 984](/us/stat/76/984); [Pub. L. 97–34, title II, § 245(a)](/us/pl/97/34/tII/s245/a), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 255](/us/stat/95/255).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1981—[Pub. L. 97–34](/us/pl/97/34) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading “In general”, and added subsec. (b).

1962—[Pub. L. 87–834](/us/pl/87/834) included other savings institutions chartered and supervised as savings and loan or similar associations under Federal or State law, and authorized amounts paid as interest as a deduction.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

[Pub. L. 97–34, title II, § 246(d)](/us/pl/97/34/tII/s246/d), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 256](/us/stat/95/256), provided that: “The amendments made by section 245 [amending this section and [section 593 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s593)] shall apply with respect to taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 13, 1981].”
