---
title: "§ 5552. Biannual briefing on missile defense and related activities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S5552"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section5552"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1649(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1649/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2198](/us/stat/138/2198).)"
---
# § 5552. Biannual briefing on missile defense and related activities

##### § 5552. Biannual briefing on missile defense and related activities

(a) In General.— On or about June 1 and December 1 of each year, the officials specified in subsection (b) shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on matters relating to missile defense policies, operations, technology development, and other similar topics as requested by such committees.

(b) Officials Specified.— The officials specified in this subsection are the following:

(1) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition.

(2) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy.

(3) The Director of the Missile Defense Agency.

(4) The Director for Strategy, Plans, and Policy of the Joint Staff.

(c) Delegation.— An official specified in subsection (b) may delegate the authority to provide a briefing required by subsection (a) to a member of the Senior Executive Service who reports to the official.

(d) Termination.— The requirement to provide a briefing under subsection (a) shall terminate on January 1, 2028.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1649(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1649/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2198](/us/stat/138/2198).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 487 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s487) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1649(b)(1)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1649/b/1), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2199](/us/stat/138/2199).
