---
title: "§ 6022. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6022"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6022"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–114, § 3](/us/pl/104/114/s3), Mar. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 788](/us/stat/110/788).)"
---
# § 6022. Purposes

##### § 6022. Purposes

(1) to assist the Cuban people in regaining their freedom and prosperity, as well as in joining the community of democratic countries that are flourishing in the Western Hemisphere;

(2) to strengthen international sanctions against the Castro government;

(3) to provide for the continued national security of the United States in the face of continuing threats from the Castro government of terrorism, theft of property from United States nationals by the Castro government, and the political manipulation by the Castro government of the desire of Cubans to escape that results in mass migration to the United States;

(4) to encourage the holding of free and fair democratic elections in Cuba, conducted under the supervision of internationally recognized observers;

(5) to provide a policy framework for United States support to the Cuban people in response to the formation of a transition government or a democratically elected government in Cuba; and

(6) to protect United States nationals against confiscatory takings and the wrongful trafficking in property confiscated by the Castro regime.

*([Pub. L. 104–114, § 3](/us/pl/104/114/s3), Mar. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 788](/us/stat/110/788).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 104–114](/us/pl/104/114), Mar. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 785](/us/stat/110/785), known as the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6021 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6021) and Tables.
