---
title: "§ 107d–4. Training programs for maximum vocational potential for blind"
identifier: "USC-T20-S107d–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section107d–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([June 20, 1936, ch. 638, § 8](/us/act/1936-06-20/ch638/s8), as added [Pub. L. 93–516, title II, § 206](/us/pl/93/516/tII/s206), Dec. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/88/1628); [Pub. L. 93–651, title II, § 206](/us/pl/93/651/tII/s206), Nov. 21, 1974, [89 Stat. 2–13](/us/stat/89/2-13).)"
---
# § 107d–4. Training programs for maximum vocational potential for blind

##### § 107d–4. Training programs for maximum vocational potential for blind

The Commissioner shall insure, through promulgation of appropriate regulations, that uniform and effective training programs, including on-the-job training, are provided for blind individuals, through services under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 [[29 U.S.C. 701](/us/usc/t29/s701) et seq.]. He shall further insure that State agencies provide programs for upward mobility (including further education and additional training or retraining for improved work opportunities) for all trainees under this chapter, and that follow-along services are provided to such trainees to assure that their maximum vocational potential is achieved.

*([June 20, 1936, ch. 638, § 8](/us/act/1936-06-20/ch638/s8), as added [Pub. L. 93–516, title II, § 206](/us/pl/93/516/tII/s206), Dec. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/88/1628); [Pub. L. 93–651, title II, § 206](/us/pl/93/651/tII/s206), Nov. 21, 1974, [89 Stat. 2–13](/us/stat/89/2-13).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–112](/us/pl/93/112), Sept. 26, 1973, [87 Stat. 355](/us/stat/87/355), which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§ 701 et seq.) of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 701 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s701) and Tables.

#### Codification

The content of [Pub. L. 93–516](/us/pl/93/516), including provisions of section 206 thereof which enacted this section, were originally contained in H.R. 14225, 93rd Congress, Second Session, which was pocket-vetoed during the 31-day intrasession adjournment of the 93rd Congress for the Congressional elections in November, 1974.

Pursuant to an order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (*Kennedy v. Jones*, D.C.D.C. 1976, 412 F.Supp. 353) H.R. 14225 was deemed to have become law without the approval of the President on Nov. 21, 1974, and was given the designation [Pub. L. 93–651](/us/pl/93/651). Therefore, for purposes of codification, this section should be deemed to have been enacted by [Pub. L. 93–651, title II, § 206](/us/pl/93/651/tII/s206), Nov. 21, 1974, [89 Stat. 2–13](/us/stat/89/2-13), in exactly the same manner as it was enacted by [Pub. L. 93–516](/us/pl/93/516).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8 of act June 20, 1936, which was classified to [section 107f of this title](/us/usc/t20/s107f), was renumbered section 10 by [Pub. L. 93–516, § 206](/us/pl/93/516/s206).
