---
title: "§ 1681p. Jurisdiction of courts; limitation of actions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1681p"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1681p"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, § 618](/us/pl/90/321/tVI/s618), as added [Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/91/508/tVI/s601), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/84/1134); amended [Pub. L. 108–159, title I, § 156](/us/pl/108/159/tI/s156), Dec. 4, 2003, [117 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/117/1968).)"
---
# § 1681p. Jurisdiction of courts; limitation of actions

##### § 1681p. Jurisdiction of courts; limitation of actions

(1) 2 years after the date of discovery by the plaintiff of the violation that is the basis for such liability; or

(2) 5 years after the date on which the violation that is the basis for such liability occurs.

*([Pub. L. 90–321, title VI, § 618](/us/pl/90/321/tVI/s618), as added [Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/91/508/tVI/s601), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/84/1134); amended [Pub. L. 108–159, title I, § 156](/us/pl/108/159/tI/s156), Dec. 4, 2003, [117 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/117/1968).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2003—[Pub. L. 108–159](/us/pl/108/159) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “An action to enforce any liability created under this subchapter may be brought in any appropriate United States district court without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction, within two years from the date on which the liability arises, except that where a defendant has materially and willfully misrepresented any information required under this subchapter to be disclosed to an individual and the information so misrepresented is material to the establishment of the defendant’s liability to that individual under this subchapter, the action may be brought at any time within two years after discovery by the individual of the misrepresentation.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–159](/us/pl/108/159) subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise provided, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159](/us/pl/108/159/s3), set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1681).

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon the expiration of one hundred and eighty days following Oct. 26, 1970, see [section 504(d) of Pub. L. 90–321](/us/pl/90/321/s504/d), as added by [Pub. L. 91–508](/us/pl/91/508), set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1681).
