---
title: "§ 220501. Short title and definitions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S220501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section220501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1466](/us/stat/112/1466); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/277/dC/tI/s142/b/2), (c), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–603](/us/stat/112/2681-603); [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(13)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/13), (14), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/120/1212); [Pub. L. 115–126, title II, § 202(b)](/us/pl/115/126/tII/s202/b), Feb. 14, 2018, [132 Stat. 323](/us/stat/132/323); [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3](/us/pl/116/189/s3),"
---
# § 220501. Short title and definitions

##### § 220501. Short title and definitions

(a) Short Title.— This chapter may be cited as the “Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act”.

(b) Definitions.— For purposes of this chapter—

(1) “amateur athlete” means an athlete who meets the eligibility standards established by the national governing body or paralympic sports organization for the sport in which the athlete competes.

(2) “amateur athletic competition” means a contest, game, meet, match, tournament, regatta, or other event in which amateur athletes compete.

(3) “amateur sports organization” means a not-for-profit corporation, association, or other group organized in the United States that sponsors or arranges an amateur athletic competition.

(4) “Athletes’ Advisory Council” means the entity established and maintained under section 220504(b)(2)(A) that—

(A) is composed of, and elected by, amateur athletes to ensure communication between the corporation and currently active amateur athletes; and

(B) serves as a source of amateur-athlete opinion and advice with respect to policies and proposed policies of the corporation.

(5) “Center” means the United States Center for SafeSport designated under section 220541.

(6) “child abuse” has the meaning given the term in section 212 of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 ([34 U.S.C. 20302](/us/usc/t34/s20302)).

(7) “corporation” means the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee.

(8) “international amateur athletic competition” means an amateur athletic competition between one or more athletes representing the United States, individually or as a team, and one or more athletes representing a foreign country.

(9) “national governing body” means an amateur sports organization, a high-performance management organization, or a paralympic sports organization that is certified by the corporation under section 220521.

(10) “protected individual” means any amateur athlete, coach, trainer, manager, administrator, or official associated with the corporation or a national governing body.

(11) “retaliation” means any adverse or discriminatory action, or the threat of an adverse or discriminatory action, including removal from a training facility, reduced coaching or training, reduced meals or housing, and removal from competition, carried out against a protected individual as a result of any communication, including the filing of a formal complaint, by the protected individual or a parent or legal guardian of the protected individual relating to the allegation of physical abuse, sexual harassment, or emotional abuse, with—

(A) the Center;

(B) a coach, trainer, manager, administrator, or official associated with the corporation;

(C) the Attorney General;

(D) a Federal or State law enforcement authority;

(E) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; or

(F) Congress.

(12) “sanction” means a certificate of approval issued by a national governing body.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1466](/us/stat/112/1466); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/277/dC/tI/s142/b/2), (c), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–603](/us/stat/112/2681-603); [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(13)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/13), (14), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/120/1212); [Pub. L. 115–126, title II, § 202(b)](/us/pl/115/126/tII/s202/b), Feb. 14, 2018, [132 Stat. 323](/us/stat/132/323); [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3](/us/pl/116/189/s3), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 944](/us/stat/134/944).)*

In clause (3), the words “club, federation, union” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (5), the words “one or more athletes” are substituted for “any athlete or athletes” and for “any athletic or athletes” for clarity and to correct a grammatical error.

In clause (6), a reference to section 220522 (restating 36:391(b) and (c)) is unnecessary because section 220521 incorporates the eligibility requirements of section 220522.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 220501 | 36:373. | Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title I, § 103, as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 1(b), 92 Stat. 3045. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(6)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/6), added par. (4). Former par. (4) redesignated (5).

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(1)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/1), substituted “United States Center for SafeSport” for “United States Center for Safe Sport”.

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(5)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/5), redesignated par. (4) as (5). Former par. (5) redesignated (6).

Subsec. (b)(6). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(5)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/5), redesignated par. (5) as (6). Former par. (6) redesignated (7).

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(2)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/2), substituted “United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee” for “United States Olympic Committee”.

Subsec. (b)(7). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(5)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/5), redesignated par. (6) as (7). Former par. (7) redesignated (8).

Subsec. (b)(8). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(5)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/5), redesignated par. (7) as (8). Former par. (8) redesignated (9).

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(3)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/3), amended par. (8) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (8) read as follows: “ ‘national governing body’ means an amateur sports organization that is recognized by the corporation under [section 220521 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s220521).”

Subsec. (b)(9). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(5)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/5), redesignated par. (8) as (9).

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(4)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/4), struck out par. (9) which read as follows: “ ‘paralympic sports organization’ means an amateur sports organization which is recognized by the corporation under [section 220521 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s220521).”

Subsec. (b)(10), (11). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(7)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/7), added pars. (10) and (11). Former par. (10) redesignated (12).

Subsec. (b)(12). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 3(5)](/us/pl/116/189/s3/5), redesignated par. (10) as (12).

2018—Subsec. (b)(4) to (10). [Pub. L. 115–126](/us/pl/115/126) added pars. (4) and (5) and redesignated former pars. (4) to (8) as (6) to (10), respectively.

2006—[Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(13)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/13), substituted “Short title and definitions” for “Title and Definitions” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(14)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/14), substituted “Short Title” for “Title” in heading.

1998—[Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/105/277/s142/b/2/A), substituted “Title and Definitions” for “Definitions” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(b)(2)(B)](/us/pl/105/277/s142/b/2/B), added subsec. (a).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(b)(2)(C)](/us/pl/105/277/s142/b/2/C), designated existing provisions as subsec. (b) and inserted heading.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(c)(1)](/us/pl/105/277/s142/c/1), inserted “or paralympic sports organization” after “national governing body”.

Subsec. (b)(7), (8). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(c)(2)](/us/pl/105/277/s142/c/2), (3), added par. (7) and redesignated former par. (7) as (8).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Severability

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 12](/us/pl/116/189/s12), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 973](/us/stat/134/973), provided that: “If any provision of this Act [see Short Title of 2020 Amendment note set out under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s101)], or an amendment made by this Act, is determined to be unenforceable or invalid, the remaining provisions of this Act and the amendments made by this Act shall not be affected.”

#### Findings

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 2](/us/pl/116/189/s2), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 943](/us/stat/134/943), provided that: “Congress makes the following findings: “(1) The courageous voice of survivors is a call to action to end emotional, physical, and sexual abuse in the Olympic and Paralympic movement. “(2) Larry Nassar, the former national team doctor for USA Gymnastics, sexually abused over 300 athletes for over two decades because of ineffective oversight by USA Gymnastics and the United States Olympic Committee. “(3) While the case of Larry Nassar is unprecedented in scale, the case is hardly the only recent incident of sexual abuse in amateur sports. “(4) Survivors of Larry Nassar’s abuse and all survivors of abuse in the Olympic and Paralympic movement deserve justice and redress for the wrongs the survivors have suffered. “(5) After a comprehensive congressional investigation, including interviews and statements from survivors, former and current organization officials, law enforcement, and advocates, Congress found that the United States Olympic Committee and USA Gymnastics fundamentally failed to uphold their existing statutory purposes and duty to protect amateur athletes from sexual, emotional, or physical abuse. “(6) USA Gymnastics and the United States Olympic Committee knowingly concealed abuse by Larry Nassar, leading to the abuse of dozens of additional amateur athletes during the period beginning in the summer of 2015 and ending in September 2016. “(7) Ending abuse in the Olympic and Paralympic movement requires enhanced oversight to ensure that the Olympic and Paralympic movement does more to serve athletes and protect their voice and safety.”

#### Report to Congress on Effectiveness of Chapter and Proposed Changes

[Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142(q)](/us/pl/105/277/dC/tI/s142/q), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–609](/us/stat/112/2681-609), required the United States Olympic Committee to submit, five years from Oct. 21, 1998, a special report to Congress on the effectiveness of the provisions of this chapter, together with any additional proposed changes to this chapter the United States Olympic Committee determined to be appropriate.
