---
title: "§ 8401. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, § 2](/us/pl/118/234/s2), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2837](/us/stat/138/2837).)"
---
# § 8401. Definitions

##### § 8401. Definitions

(1) Federal land management agency The term “Federal land management agency” has the meaning given the term in [section 6801 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6801).

(2) Federal recreational lands and waters The term “Federal recreational lands and waters” has the meaning given the term in [section 6801 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6801).

(3) Gateway community The term “gateway community” means a community that serves as an entry point, or is adjacent, to a recreation destination on Federal recreational lands and waters or non-Federal land at which there is consistently high, in the determination of the Secretaries, seasonal or year-round visitation.

(4) Indian Tribe The term “Indian Tribe” has the meaning given the term in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(5) Land use plan The term “land use plan” means—

(A) a land use plan prepared by the Secretary pursuant to [section 1712 of title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1712); and

(B) a land management plan prepared by the Forest Service for a unit of the National Forest Service pursuant to [section 1604 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1604).

(6) Secretaries The term “Secretaries” means each of—

(A) the Secretary; and

(B) the Secretary of Agriculture.

(7) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(8) Secretary concerned The term “Secretary concerned” means—

(A) the Secretary, with respect to land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; or

(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to land managed by the Forest Service.

(9) State The term “State” means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each territory of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, § 2](/us/pl/118/234/s2), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2837](/us/stat/138/2837).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in introductory provisions, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2836](/us/stat/138/2836), known as the Expanding Public Lands Outdoor Recreation Experiences Act and also known as the EXPLORE Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 118–234, § 1(a)](/us/pl/118/234/s1/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2836](/us/stat/138/2836), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, sections 460*l*–6d, 558a to 558g, and 6804a of this title, and sections 100905 and 308106 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, amending sections 2113a, 6801 to 6804, 6807, 6809, 6852, 6854, and 6855 of this title, [section 1761a of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1761a), Public Lands, and sections 101703, 104909, 200102 to 200104, 308101 to 308103, and 308105 of Title 54, repealing section 460*l*–6d of this title, [section 1703 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1703), and [section 100905 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100905), omitting sections 558a to 558d of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under [section 558a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s558a), and amending provisions set out as notes under sections 580d and 6804 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Expanding Public Lands Outdoor Recreation Experiences Act’ or the ‘EXPLORE Act’.”
