---
title: "§ 950. Right of way to canal and ditch companies for irrigation purposes; additional grants"
identifier: "USC-T43-S950"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section950"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Mar. 1, 1921, ch. 93](/us/act/1921-03-01/ch93), [41 Stat. 1194](/us/stat/41/1194).)"
---
# § 950. Right of way to canal and ditch companies for irrigation purposes; additional grants

##### § 950. Right of way to canal and ditch companies for irrigation purposes; additional grants

In addition to the rights of way granted by sections 946 to 949 of this title, and subject to the conditions and restrictions therein contained, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to grant permits or easements for not to exceed five acres of ground adjoining the right of way at each of the locations, to be determined by the Secretary of the Interior, to be used for the erection thereon of dwellings or other buildings or corrals for the convenience of those engaged in the care and management of the works provided for by said sections: *Provided*, That this section shall not apply to lands within national forests.

*([Mar. 1, 1921, ch. 93](/us/act/1921-03-01/ch93), [41 Stat. 1194](/us/stat/41/1194).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Repeal; Savings Provision

Section repealed by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2793](/us/stat/90/2793), effective on and after Oct. 21, 1976, insofar as applicable to the issuance of rights-of-way over, upon, under, and through the public lands and lands in the National Forest System. Such repeal not to be construed as terminating any valid lease, permit, patent, etc., existing on Oct. 21, 1976, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579/s701), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1701).
