---
title: "§ 7418. Petition and review of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7418"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7418"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 519](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s519), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/110/1044).)"
---
# § 7418. Petition and review of orders

##### § 7418. Petition and review of orders

(a) Petition

(1) In general A person subject to an order issued under this subchapter may file with the Secretary a petition—

(A) stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order, is not established in accordance with law; and

(B) requesting a modification of the order or an exemption from the order.

(2) Hearing The Secretary shall give the petitioner an opportunity for a hearing on the petition, in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary.

(3) Ruling After the hearing, the Secretary shall make a ruling on the petition. The ruling shall be final, subject to review as set forth in subsection (b).

(4) Limitation on petition Any petition filed under this subsection challenging an order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order, shall be filed within 2 years after the effective date of the order, provision, or obligation subject to challenge in the petition.

(b) Review

(1) Commencement of action The district court of the United States for any district in which a person who is a petitioner under subsection (a) resides or carries on business shall have jurisdiction to review the final ruling on the petition of the person, if a complaint for that purpose is filed not later than 20 days after the date of the entry of the final ruling by the Secretary under subsection (a)(3).

(2) Process Service of process in a proceeding may be made on the Secretary by delivering a copy of the complaint to the Secretary.

(3) Remands If the court determines that the ruling is not in accordance with law, the court shall remand the matter to the Secretary with directions—

(A) to make such ruling as the court determines to be in accordance with law; or

(B) to take such further action as, in the opinion of the court, the law requires.

(c) Effect on enforcement proceedings The pendency of a petition filed under subsection (a) or an action commenced under subsection (b) shall not operate as a stay of any action authorized by [section 7419 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7419) to be taken to enforce this subchapter, including any rule, order, or penalty in effect under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 519](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s519), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/110/1044).)*
