---
title: "§ 9858r. Studies on waiting lists"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9858r"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9858r"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–186, § 12](/us/pl/113/186/s12), Nov. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 2001](/us/stat/128/2001).)"
---
# § 9858r. Studies on waiting lists

##### § 9858r. Studies on waiting lists

(a) Study The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct studies to determine, for each State, the number of families that—

(1) are eligible to receive assistance under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 [[42 U.S.C. 9857](/us/usc/t42/s9857) et seq.];

(2) have applied for the assistance, identified by the type of assistance requested; and

(3) have been placed on a waiting list for the assistance.

(b) Report The Comptroller General shall prepare a report containing the results of each study and shall submit the report to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives—

(1) not later than 2 years after November 19, 2014; and

(2) every 2 years thereafter.

(c) Definition In this section, the term “State” has the meaning given the term in section 658P of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 ([42 U.S.C. 9858n](/us/usc/t42/s9858n)).

*([Pub. L. 113–186, § 12](/us/pl/113/186/s12), Nov. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 2001](/us/stat/128/2001).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is subchapter C (§ 658A et seq.) of chapter 8 of subtitle A of title VI of [Pub. L. 97–35](/us/pl/97/35), as added by [Pub. L. 101–508, title V, § 5082(2)](/us/pl/101/508/tV/s5082/2), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–236](/us/stat/104/1388-236), which is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 9857(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9857/a) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 2014, and not as part of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, which comprises this subchapter.
