---
title: "§ 302101. Maintenance by Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T54-S302101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section302101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3191](/us/stat/128/3191).)"
---
# § 302101. Maintenance by Secretary

##### § 302101. Maintenance by Secretary

The Secretary may expand and maintain a National Register of Historic Places composed of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects significant in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering, and culture.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3191](/us/stat/128/3191).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 302101 | 16 U.S.C. 470a(a)(1)(A) (1st sentence). | Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(a)(1)(A) (1st sentence), Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915; Pub. L. 91–383, § 11, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, Oct. 7, 1976, 90 Stat. 1942; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(d), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 96–205, title VI, § 608(a)(1), (2), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 92; Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 201(a), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2988. |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Recovery of Fees for Review Services for Historic Preservation Tax Certification

[Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(3) [title I]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/3/tI), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–142, provided in part: “That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National Park Service may hereafter recover all fees derived from providing necessary review services associated with historic preservation tax certification, and such funds shall be available until expended without further appropriation for the costs of such review services”.

#### Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic Building Restoration and Preservation

[Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title V, § 507](/us/pl/104/333/dI/tV/s507), Nov. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 4156](/us/stat/110/4156), as amended by [Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title I, § 150](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tI/s150), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 245](/us/stat/117/245); [Pub. L. 116–9, title II, § 2402](/us/pl/116/9/tII/s2402), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 747](/us/stat/133/747), provided that: “(a) Authority To Make Grants.—From the amounts made available to carry out the National Historic Preservation Act [see [54 U.S.C. 300101](/us/usc/t54/s300101) et seq.], the Secretary of the Interior shall make grants in accordance with this section to eligible historically black colleges and universities for the preservation and restoration of historic buildings and structures on the campus of these institutions. “(b) Grant Conditions.—Grants made under subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that the grantee covenants, for the period of time specified by the Secretary, that—“(1) no alteration will be made in the property with respect to which the grant is made without the concurrence of the Secretary; and “(2) reasonable public access to the property with respect to which the grant is made will be permitted by the grantee for interpretive and educational purposes. “(c) Matching Requirement for Buildings and Structures Listed on the National Register of Historic Places.—“(1) In general.—Except as provided by paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary may obligate funds made available under this section for a grant with respect to a building or structure listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places only if the grantee agrees to match, from funds derived from non-Federal sources, the amount of the grant with an amount that is equal or greater than the grant. “(2) Waiver.—The Secretary may waive paragraphs (1) and (3) with respect to a grant if the Secretary determines from circumstances that an extreme emergency exists or that such a waiver is in the public interest to assure the preservation of historically significant resources. “(3) Exception.—The Secretary shall not obligate funds made available under subsection (d)(2) for a grant with respect to a building or structure listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places unless the grantee agrees to provide, from funds derived from non-Federal sources, an amount that is equal to 30 percent of the total cost of the project for which the grant is provided. “(d) Funding Provision.—“(1) In general.—Under section 108 of the National Historic Preservation Act [see [54 U.S.C. 303101](/us/usc/t54/s303101) to 303103], $29,000,000 shall be made available to carry out the purposes of this section. Of amounts made available pursuant to this section, $5,000,000 shall be available for grants to Fisk University, $2,500,000 shall be available for grants to Knoxville College, $2,000,000 shall be available for grants to Miles College, Alabama, $1,500,000 shall be available for grants to Talladega College, Alabama, $1,550,000 shall be available for grants to Selma University, Alabama, $250,000 shall be available for grants to Stillman College, Alabama, $200,000 shall be available for grants to Concordia College, Alabama, $2,900,000 shall be available for grants to Allen University, South Carolina, $1,000,000 shall be available for grants to Claflin College, South Carolina, $2,000,000 shall be available for grants to Voorhees College, South Carolina, $1,000,000 shall be available for grants to Rust College, Mississippi, and $3,000,000 shall be available for grants to Tougaloo College, Mississippi. “(2) Additional funding.—In addition to amounts made available under paragraph (1), there is authorized to be appropriated from the Historic Preservation Fund to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2003 through 2008 and each of fiscal years 2019 through 2025. “(e) Regulations.—The Secretary shall develop such guidelines as may be necessary to carry out this section. “(f) Definitions.—For the purposes of this section:“(1) Historically black colleges.—The term ‘historically black colleges and universities’ has the same meaning given the term ‘part B institution’ by section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1061](/us/usc/t20/s1061)). “(2) Historic building and structures.—The term ‘historic building and structures’ means a building or structure listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places or designated a National Historic Landmark.”

#### Recommendations of Historic Properties for Preservation

[Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4021](/us/pl/102/575/tXL/s4021), Oct. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 4765](/us/stat/106/4765), provided that: “The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Advisory Council, shall seek to ensure that historic properties preserved under the National Historic Preservation Act [see [54 U.S.C. 300101](/us/usc/t54/s300101) et seq.] fully reflect the historical experience of this nation.”
