---
title: "§ 6913. Resource Recovery and Conservation Panels"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6913"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6913"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–272, title II, § 2003](/us/pl/89/272/tII/s2003), as added [Pub. L. 94–580, § 2](/us/pl/94/580/s2), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2804](/us/stat/90/2804); amended [Pub. L. 95–609, § 7(e)](/us/pl/95/609/s7/e), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3081](/us/stat/92/3081).)"
---
# § 6913. Resource Recovery and Conservation Panels

##### § 6913. Resource Recovery and Conservation Panels

The Administrator shall provide teams of personnel, including Federal, State, and local employees or contractors (hereinafter referred to as “Resource Conservation and Recovery Panels”) to provide Federal agencies, States and local governments upon request with technical assistance on solid waste management, resource recovery, and resource conservation. Such teams shall include technical, marketing, financial, and institutional specialists, and the services of such teams shall be provided without charge to States or local governments.

*([Pub. L. 89–272, title II, § 2003](/us/pl/89/272/tII/s2003), as added [Pub. L. 94–580, § 2](/us/pl/94/580/s2), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2804](/us/stat/90/2804); amended [Pub. L. 95–609, § 7(e)](/us/pl/95/609/s7/e), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3081](/us/stat/92/3081).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–609](/us/pl/95/609) inserted “Federal agencies,” after “to provide”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Administrator or other official of Environmental Protection Agency under this chapter to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see note set out under [section 6903 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6903).
