---
title: "§ 4012. Application for issuance of certificate of review"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4012"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4012"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–290, title III, § 302](/us/pl/97/290/tIII/s302), Oct. 8, 1982, [96 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/96/1240).)"
---
# § 4012. Application for issuance of certificate of review

##### § 4012. Application for issuance of certificate of review

(a) Written form; limitation to export trade; compliance with regulations To apply for a certificate of review, a person shall submit to the Secretary a written application which—

(1) specifies conduct limited to export trade, and

(2) is in a form and contains any information, including information pertaining to the overall market in which the applicant operates, required by rule or regulation promulgated under [section 4020 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4020).

(b) Publication of notice of application; transmittal to Attorney General

(1) Within ten days after an application submitted under subsection (a) is received by the Secretary, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a notice that announces that an application for a certificate of review has been submitted, identifies each person submitting the application, and describes the conduct for which the application is submitted.

(2) Not later than seven days after an application submitted under subsection (a) is received by the Secretary, the Secretary shall transmit to the Attorney General—

(A) a copy of the application,

(B) any information submitted to the Secretary in connection with the application, and

(C) any other relevant information (as determined by the Secretary) in the possession of the Secretary, including information regarding the market share of the applicant in the line of commerce to which the conduct specified in the application relates.

*([Pub. L. 97–290, title III, § 302](/us/pl/97/290/tIII/s302), Oct. 8, 1982, [96 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/96/1240).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days after effective date of rules and regulations first promulgated under [section 4020 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4020), see [section 312(b) of Pub. L. 97–290](/us/pl/97/290/s312/b) set out as a note under [section 4011 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4011).
