---
title: "§ 1727b. Indian Youth Service Corps"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1727b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1727b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–378, title II, § 210](/us/pl/91/378/tII/s210), as added [Pub. L. 116–9, title IX, § 9003(g)](/us/pl/116/9/tIX/s9003/g), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 835](/us/stat/133/835).)"
---
# § 1727b. Indian Youth Service Corps

##### § 1727b. Indian Youth Service Corps

(a) In general There is established within the Public Lands Corps a program to be known as the “Indian Youth Service Corps” that—

(1) enrolls participants between the ages of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age 35 or younger, a majority of whom are Indians;

(2) is established pursuant to an agreement between an Indian tribe and a qualified youth or conservation corps for the benefit of the members of the Indian tribe; and

(3) carries out appropriate conservation projects on eligible service land.

(b) Authorization of cooperative agreements The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with Indian tribes and qualified youth or conservation corps for the establishment and administration of the Indian Youth Service Corps.

(c) Guidelines Not later than 18 months after March 12, 2019, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with Indian tribes, shall issue guidelines for the management of the Indian Youth Service Corps, in accordance with this subchapter and any other applicable Federal laws.

*([Pub. L. 91–378, title II, § 210](/us/pl/91/378/tII/s210), as added [Pub. L. 116–9, title IX, § 9003(g)](/us/pl/116/9/tIX/s9003/g), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 835](/us/stat/133/835).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “this Act”, and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title II of [Pub. L. 91–378](/us/pl/91/378), known as the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 210 of Pub. L. 91–379](/us/pl/91/379/s210) was renumbered section 212 and is classified to [section 1729 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1729).
