---
title: "§ 530. Internal guidance on excess personal property"
identifier: "USC-T40-S530"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section530"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 118–99, § 2(a)(2)](/us/pl/118/99/s2/a/2), (e)(2), Oct. 1, 2024, [138 Stat. 1578](/us/stat/138/1578), 1579.)"
---
# § 530. Internal guidance on excess personal property

##### § 530. Internal guidance on excess personal property

(a) Initial Report.— Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, each executive agency shall submit to the Administrator of General Services and make publicly available on the website of the executive agency the internal guidance of the executive agency on considering using excess personal property to meet the needs of the executive agency, which shall include—

(1) a requirement to consider excess personal property before buying new;

(2) when it is practicable to check for and obtain excess personal property;

(3) how to evaluate the suitability of excess personal property for use; and

(4) defined roles and responsibilities relevant to considering the use of excess personal property, including the designation of an employee as responsible for searching through available excess personal property for items that meet the needs of the executive agency.

(b) Updates.— Each executive agency shall submit to the Administrator of General Services and update on the website of the executive agency any changes to the internal guidance submitted and made available under subsection (a).

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 118–99, § 2(a)(2)](/us/pl/118/99/s2/a/2), (e)(2), Oct. 1, 2024, [138 Stat. 1578](/us/stat/138/1578), 1579.)*

#### Repeal of Section

[Pub. L. 118–99, § 2(e)(2)](/us/pl/118/99/s2/e/2), Oct. 1, 2024, [138 Stat. 1579](/us/stat/138/1579), provided that, effective on the date that is 5 years after Oct. 1, 2024, this section is repealed.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 118–99](/us/pl/118/99), which was approved Oct. 1, 2024.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of Repeal

[Pub. L. 118–99, § 2(e)](/us/pl/118/99/s2/e), Oct. 1, 2024, [138 Stat. 1579](/us/stat/138/1579), provided that the repeal of this section by section 2(e)(2) is effective on the date that is 5 years after Oct. 1, 2024.
