---
title: "§ 797. Publication and sale of photographs of defense installations"
identifier: "USC-T18-S797"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section797"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 738](/us/stat/62/738); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(H)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/H), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 797. Publication and sale of photographs of defense installations

##### § 797. Publication and sale of photographs of defense installations

On and after thirty days from the date upon which the President defines any vital military or naval installation or equipment as being within the category contemplated under [section 795 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s795), whoever reproduces, publishes, sells, or gives away any photograph, sketch, picture, drawing, map, or graphical representation of the vital military or naval installations or equipment so defined, without first obtaining permission of the commanding officer of the military or naval post, camp, or station concerned, or higher authority, unless such photograph, sketch, picture, drawing, map, or graphical representation has clearly indicated thereon that it has been censored by the proper military or naval authority, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 738](/us/stat/62/738); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(H)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/H), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on sections 45 and 45b, of title 50, U.S.C., 1940 ed., War and National Defense ([Jan. 12, 1938, ch. 2](/us/act/1938-01-12/ch2), §§ 1, 3, [52 Stat. 3](/us/stat/52/3)).

Punishment provision of [section 45 of title 50](/us/usc/t50/s45), U.S.C., 1940 ed., War and National Defense, is repeated. Words “upon conviction” were deleted as surplusage since punishment cannot be imposed until a conviction is secured.

Minor changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $1,000”.
