---
title: "§ 5122. Offsets of gratuities"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Aug. 12, 1935, ch. 508, § 2](/us/act/1935-08-12/ch508/s2), [49 Stat. 596](/us/stat/49/596); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 160(a)(8)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s160/a/8), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 48](/us/stat/96/48); [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516).)"
---
# § 5122. Offsets of gratuities

##### § 5122. Offsets of gratuities

In all suits now pending in the United States Court of Federal Claims by an Indian tribe or band which have not been tried or submitted, and in any suit hereafter filed in the United States Court of Federal Claims by any such tribe or band, the United States Court of Federal Claims is directed to consider and to offset against any amount found due the said tribe or band all sums expended gratuitously by the United States for the benefit of the said tribe or band; and in all cases now pending or hereafter filed in the United States Court of Federal Claims in which an Indian tribe or band is party plaintiff, wherein the duty of the court is merely to report its findings of fact and conclusions to Congress, the said United States Court of Federal Claims is directed to include in its report a statement of the amount of money which has been expended by the United States gratuitously for the benefit of the said tribe or band: *Provided*, That expenditures made prior to the date of the law, treaty, agreement, or Executive order under which the claims arise shall not be offset against the claims or claim asserted; and expenditures under the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. L. 984) [[25 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t25/s5101) et seq.], except expenditures under appropriations made pursuant to section 5 of such Act [[25 U.S.C. 5108](/us/usc/t25/s5108)], shall not be charged as offsets against any claim on behalf of an Indian tribe or tribes now pending in the United States Court of Federal Claims or hereafter filed: *Provided further*, That funds appropriated and expended from tribal funds shall not be construed as gratuities; and this section shall not be deemed to amend or affect the various Acts granting jurisdiction to the United States Court of Federal Claims to hear and determine the claims listed on page 678 of the hearings before the subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations on the second deficiency appropriation bill for the fiscal year 1935: *And provided further*, That no expenditure under any emergency appropriation or allotment made subsequently to March 4, 1933, and generally applicable throughout the United States for relief in stricken agricultural areas, relief from distress caused by unemployment and conditions resulting therefrom, the prosecution of public works and public projects for the relief of unemployment or to increase employment, and for work relief (including the civil-works program) shall be considered in connection with the operation of this section.

*([Aug. 12, 1935, ch. 508, § 2](/us/act/1935-08-12/ch508/s2), [49 Stat. 596](/us/stat/49/596); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 160(a)(8)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s160/a/8), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 48](/us/stat/96/48); [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, is [act June 18, 1934, ch. 576](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576), [48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 475a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s475a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) substituted “United States Court of Federal Claims” for “United States Claims Court” wherever appearing.

1982—[Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) substituted “United States Claims Court” for “Court of Claims” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) effective Oct. 29, 1992, see [section 911 of Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572/s911), set out as a note under [section 171 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s171), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) effective Oct. 1, 1982, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164/s402), set out as a note under [section 171 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s171), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
