---
title: "§ 7315. Geriatrics and Gerontology Advisory Committee"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7315"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7315"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 401(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s401/a/3), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 217](/us/stat/105/217); amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/404); [Pub. L. 102–405, title I, § 102](/us/pl/102/405/tI/s102), title III, § 302(c)(1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1973](/us/stat/106/1973), 1984; [Pub. L. 103–446, title XII](/us/pl/103/446/tXII), §§ 1201(i)(9), 1202(b)(2), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4688](/us/stat/108/4"
---
# § 7315. Geriatrics and Gerontology Advisory Committee

##### § 7315. Geriatrics and Gerontology Advisory Committee

(a) The Secretary shall establish in the Veterans Health Administration a Geriatrics and Gerontology Advisory Committee (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Committee”). The membership of the Committee shall be appointed by the Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Under Secretary for Health, and shall include individuals who are not employees of the Federal Government and who have demonstrated interest and expertise in research, education, and clinical activities related to aging and at least one representative of a national veterans service organization. The Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Under Secretary for Health, shall invite representatives of other appropriate departments and agencies of the United States to participate in the activities of the Committee and shall provide the Committee with such staff and other support as may be necessary for the Committee to carry out effectively its functions under this section.

(b) The Committee shall—

(1) advise the Under Secretary for Health on all matters pertaining to geriatrics and gerontology;

(2) assess, through an evaluation process (including a site visit conducted not later than three years after the date of the establishment of each new center and not later than two years after the date of the last evaluation of those centers in operation on August 26, 1980), the ability of each center established under [section 7314 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7314) to achieve its established purposes and the purposes of title III of the Veterans’ Administration Health-Care Amendments of 1980 ([Public Law 96–330](/us/pl/96/330); [94 Stat. 1048](/us/stat/94/1048));

(3) assess the capability of the Department to provide high quality geriatric services, extended services, and other health-care services to eligible older veterans, taking into consideration the likely demand for such services from such veterans;

(4) assess the current and projected needs of eligible older veterans for geriatric services, extended-care services, and other health-care services from the Department and its activities and plans designed to meet such needs; and

(5) perform such additional functions as the Secretary or Under Secretary for Health may direct.

(c)

(1) The Committee shall submit to the Secretary, through the Under Secretary for Health, such reports as the Committee considers appropriate with respect to its findings and conclusions under subsection (b). Such reports shall include the following:

(A) Descriptions of the operations of the centers of geriatric research, education, and clinical activities established pursuant to [section 7314 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7314).

(B) Assessments of the quality of the operations of such centers.

(C) An assessment of the extent to which the Department, through the operation of such centers and other health-care facilities and programs, is meeting the needs of eligible older veterans for geriatric services, extended-care services, and other health-care services.

(D) Assessments of and recommendations for correcting any deficiencies in the operations of such centers.

(E) Recommendations for such other geriatric services, extended-care services, and other health-care services as may be needed to meet the needs of older veterans.

(2) Whenever the Committee submits a report to the Secretary under paragraph (1), the Committee shall at the same time transmit a copy of the report in the same form to the appropriate committees of Congress. Not later than 90 days after receipt of a report under that paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing any comments and recommendations of the Secretary with respect to the report of the Committee.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 401(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s401/a/3), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 217](/us/stat/105/217); amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/404); [Pub. L. 102–405, title I, § 102](/us/pl/102/405/tI/s102), title III, § 302(c)(1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1973](/us/stat/106/1973), 1984; [Pub. L. 103–446, title XII](/us/pl/103/446/tXII), §§ 1201(i)(9), 1202(b)(2), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4688](/us/stat/108/4688), 4689; [Pub. L. 107–330, title III, § 308(g)(13)](/us/pl/107/330/tIII/s308/g/13), Dec. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 2829](/us/stat/116/2829).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Veterans’ Administration Health-Care Amendments of 1980, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 96–330](/us/pl/96/330), Aug. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1030](/us/stat/94/1030). Title III of the Act amended former sections 4101 and 4103 of this title and enacted provisions set out as notes under former [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4101). For the purposes of title III, see [section 301 of Pub. L. 96–330](/us/pl/96/330/s301), set out as a note under [section 7314 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7314). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1980 Amendment note set out under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s101) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–330](/us/pl/107/330) inserted “Veterans Health” before “Administration” in first sentence.

1994—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 103–446, § 1201(i)(9)](/us/pl/103/446/s1201/i/9), which directed substitution of “Veterans’ Administration” for “Department”, could not be executed because “Department” did not appear subsequent to execution of amendment by [Pub. L. 103–446, § 1202(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/446/s1202/b/2). See below.

[Pub. L. 103–446, § 1202(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/446/s1202/b/2), amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), to make it inapplicable to this section. See 1991 Amendment note below.

1992—Subsecs. (a), (b)(1), (5), (c)(1). [Pub. L. 102–405, § 302(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/s302/c/1), substituted “Under Secretary for Health” for “Chief Medical Director” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 102–405, § 102](/us/pl/102/405/s102), amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “Not later than 90 days after receipt of a report submitted under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transmit the report, together with the Secretary’s comments and recommendations thereon, to the appropriate committees of the Congress.”

1991—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), which directed substitution of “Department” for “Veterans’ Administration”, was amended by [Pub. L. 103–446, § 1202(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/446/s1202/b/2), to make it inapplicable to this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

[Pub. L. 103–446, title XII, § 1202(b)](/us/pl/103/446/tXII/s1202/b), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4689](/us/stat/108/4689), provided that the amendment made by that section is effective Aug. 6, 1991, and as if included in the enactment of [Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83).

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
