---
title: "§ 939. Accounting for industrial work"
identifier: "USC-T14-S939"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section939"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 549](/us/stat/63/549), § 648; renumbered § 939 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), title III, § 307, Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat/132/4205), 4247.)"
---
# § 939. Accounting for industrial work

##### § 939. Accounting for industrial work

(a) In General.— The Secretary may prescribe regulations governing accounting for industrial work, including charges for overhead for civilian labor and for maintenance of industrial plant and equipment, performed at the Coast Guard Yard or such similar Coast Guard industrial establishments as he may designate. Any orders placed for such industrial work shall be covered by a transfer or advance of funds to cover the estimated cost thereof, and shall be credited to such accounts as may be necessary and established by the Secretary to carry out the provisions of this section. Accounts so established shall be available for materials, supplies, or equipment, and civilian labor, including overhead and maintenance, required in performing the work ordered. Upon completion of an order an adjustment will be made to make the amount transferred or advanced equal to the actual cost as computed in accordance with the accounting regulations prescribed by the Secretary or in accordance with subsection (b).

(b) Incentive Contracts.—

(1) The parties to an order for industrial work to be performed by the Coast Guard Yard or a Coast Guard industrial establishment designated under subsection (a) may enter into an order or a cost-plus-incentive-fee order in accordance with this subsection.

(2) If such parties enter into such an order or a cost-plus-incentive-fee order, an agreed-upon amount of any adjustment described in subsection (a) may be distributed as an incentive to the wage-grade industrial employees who complete the order.

(3) Before entering into such an order or cost-plus-incentive-fee order such parties must agree that the wage-grade employees of the Coast Guard Yard or Coast Guard industrial establishment will take action to improve the delivery schedule or technical performance agreed to in the order for industrial work to which such parties initially agreed.

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the industrial workforce of the Coast Guard Yard or Coast Guard industrial establishment satisfies the performance target established in such an order or cost-plus-incentive-fee order—

(A) the adjustment to be made pursuant to subsection (a) shall be reduced by an agreed-upon amount and distributed to such wage-grade industrial employees; and

(B) the remainder of the adjustment shall be credited to the appropriation for such order current at that time.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 549](/us/stat/63/549), § 648; renumbered § 939 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), title III, § 307, Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat/132/4205), 4247.)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section is intended to eliminate a very cumbersome and inefficient method of accounting for industrial jobs at the Coast Guard Yard and other shore establishments where industrial work may be undertaken. Under existing law several accounts must be kept current for each job in progress. Under this statute the working fund would be available for all types of expenditures in connection with a job and the breakdown into separate accounts could be done after the job is complete. The other armed forces have provisions of law which permit a working fund similar to the one provided by this section. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 307](/us/pl/115/282/s307), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and inserted heading, substituted “Secretary or in accordance with subsection (b).” for “Secretary.”, and added subsec. (b).

[Pub. L. 115–282, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s107/b), renumbered [section 648 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s648) as this section.
