---
title: "§ 4801. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4801"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4801"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1742](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1742), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/132/2208).)"
---
# § 4801. Definitions

##### § 4801. Definitions

(1) Controlled The term “controlled” refers to an item subject to the jurisdiction of the United States under subchapter I.

(2) Dual-use The term “dual-use”, with respect to an item, means the item has civilian applications and military, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, or law-enforcement-related applications.

(3) Export The term “export”, with respect to an item subject to controls under subchapter I, includes—

(A) the shipment or transmission of the item out of the United States, including the sending or taking of the item out of the United States, in any manner; and

(B) the release or transfer of technology or source code relating to the item to a foreign person in the United States.

(4) Export Administration Regulations The term “Export Administration Regulations” means—

(A) the Export Administration Regulations as promulgated, maintained, and amended under the authority of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act [[50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.] and codified, as of August 13, 2018, in subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations; or

(B) regulations that are promulgated, maintained, and amended under the authority of subchapter I on or after August 13, 2018.

(5) Foreign person The term “foreign person” means—

(A) any natural person who is not a lawful permanent resident of the United States, citizen of the United States, or any other protected individual (as such term is defined in [section 1324b(a)(3) of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1324b/a/3));

(B) any corporation, business association, partnership, trust, society or any other entity or group that is not incorporated in the United States or organized to do business in the United States, as well as international organizations, foreign governments and any agency or subdivision of a foreign government (e.g., diplomatic mission).

(6) In-country transfer The term “in-country transfer”, with respect to an item subject to controls under subchapter I, means a change in the end-use or end user of the item within the same foreign country.

(7) Item The term “item” means a commodity, software, or technology.

(8) Person The term “person” means—

(A) a natural person;

(B) a corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, financial institution, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, and any other business organization, any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group, or any government or agency thereof; and

(C) any successor to any entity described in subparagraph (B).

(9) Reexport The term “reexport”, with respect to an item subject to controls under subchapter I, includes—

(A) the shipment or transmission of the item from a foreign country to another foreign country, including the sending or taking of the item from the foreign country to the other foreign country, in any manner; and

(B) the release or transfer of technology or source code relating to the item to a foreign person outside the United States.

(10) Secretary Except as otherwise provided, the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce.

(11) Technology The term “technology” includes information, in tangible or intangible form, necessary for the development, production, or use of an item.

(12) United States The term “United States” means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

(13) United States person The term “United States person” means—

(A) for purposes of subchapter I—

(i) any individual who is a citizen or national of the United States or who is an individual described in subparagraph (B) of [section 1324b(a)(3) of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1324b/a/3);

(ii) a corporation or other legal entity which is organized under the laws of the United States, any State or territory thereof, or the District of Columbia; and

(iii) any person in the United States; and

(B) for purposes of subchapter II, any United States resident or national (other than an individual resident outside the United States and employed by other than a United States person), any domestic concern (including any permanent domestic establishment of any foreign concern) and any foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent foreign establishment) of any domestic concern which is controlled in fact by such domestic concern, as determined under regulations by the Secretary.

(14) Weapons of mass destruction The term “weapons of mass destruction” means nuclear, radiological, chemical, and biological weapons and delivery systems for such weapons.

*([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1742](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1742), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/132/2208).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle B (§§ 1741–1781) of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/132/2208), known as the Export Control Reform Act of 2018, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle B to the Code, see [section 1741 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1741), set out as a Short Title note below and Tables.

Subchapter I, referred to in pars. (1), (3), (4)(B), (6), (9), and (13)(A), was in the original “part I”, meaning part I (§§ 1751–1768) of subtitle B of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), known as the Export Controls Act of 2018, which is classified principally to subchapter I of this chapter. For complete classification of part I to the Code, see [section 1751 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1751), set out as a Short Title note below and Tables.

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in par. (4)(A), is title II of [Pub. L. 95–223](/us/pl/95/223), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/91/1626), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1701) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1741](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1741), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/132/2208), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle B (§§ 1741–1781) of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), enacting this chapter, amending [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees, and [section 2516 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2516), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, repealing sections 4601 to 4610 and 4614 to 4623 of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 4601 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4601), and repealing provisions set out as notes under sections 4601, 4606, and 4609 of this title and [section 3108 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3108), Foreign Relations and Intercourse] may be cited as the ‘Export Control Reform Act of 2018’.”

[Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1751](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1751), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2209](/us/stat/132/2209), provided that: “This part [part I (§§ 1751–1768) of subtitle B of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), enacting subchapter I of this chapter, amending [section 2516 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2516), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, repealing sections 4601 to 4610 and 4614 to 4623 of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under [section 4601 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4601), and repealing provisions set out as notes under sections 4601, 4606, and 4609 of this title and [section 3108 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3108), Foreign Relations and Intercourse] may be cited as the ‘Export Controls Act of 2018’.”

[Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1771](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1771), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2234](/us/stat/132/2234), provided that: “This part [part II (§§ 1771–1774) of subtitle B of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), enacting subchapter II of this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Anti-Boycott Act of 2018’.”
