---
title: "§ 4374. Cooperation with foreign countries on preventing evasion of trade remedy laws"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4374"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4374"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–125, title IV, § 414](/us/pl/114/125/tIV/s414), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 160](/us/stat/130/160); [Pub. L. 116–113, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/116/113/tIV/s401), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 61](/us/stat/134/61).)"
---
# § 4374. Cooperation with foreign countries on preventing evasion of trade remedy laws

##### § 4374. Cooperation with foreign countries on preventing evasion of trade remedy laws

(a) Bilateral agreements

(1) In general The Secretary shall seek to negotiate and enter into bilateral agreements with the customs authorities or other appropriate authorities of foreign countries for purposes of cooperation on preventing evasion of the trade remedy laws of the United States and the trade remedy laws of the other country.

(2) Provisions and authorities The Secretary shall seek to include in each such bilateral agreement the following provisions and authorities:

(A) On the request of the importing country, the exporting country shall provide, consistent with its laws, regulations, and procedures, production, trade, and transit documents and other information necessary to determine whether an entry or entries exported from the exporting country are subject to the importing country’s trade remedy laws.

(B) On the written request of the importing country, the exporting country shall conduct a verification for purposes of enabling the importing country to make a determination described in subparagraph (A).

(C) The exporting country may allow the importing country to participate in a verification described in subparagraph (B), including through a site visit.

(D) If the exporting country does not allow participation of the importing country in a verification described in subparagraph (B), the importing country may take this fact into consideration in its trade enforcement and compliance assessment activities regarding the compliance of the exporting country’s exports with the importing country’s trade remedy laws.

(b) Consideration The Commissioner is authorized to take into consideration whether a country is a signatory to a bilateral agreement described in subsection (a) or a party to the USMCA (as defined in [section 4502 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4502)) and the extent to which the country is cooperating under the bilateral agreement or the USMCA, as the case may be, for purposes of trade enforcement and compliance assessment activities of U.S. Customs and Border Protection that concern evasion by such country’s exports.

(c) Report Not later than December 31 of each calendar year beginning after February 24, 2016, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report summarizing—

(1) the status of any ongoing negotiations of bilateral agreements described in subsection (a), including the identities of the countries involved in such negotiations;

(2) the terms of any completed bilateral agreements described in subsection (a); and

(3) bilateral cooperation and other activities conducted pursuant to or enabled by any completed bilateral agreements described in subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 114–125, title IV, § 414](/us/pl/114/125/tIV/s414), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 160](/us/stat/130/160); [Pub. L. 116–113, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/116/113/tIV/s401), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 61](/us/stat/134/61).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113) inserted “or a party to the USMCA (as defined in [section 4502 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4502))” after “subsection (a)” and “or the USMCA, as the case may be,” after “the bilateral agreement”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2020 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113) effective on the date on which the USMCA enters into force (July 1, 2020), but not applicable to certain determinations under [section 1516a of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1516a) or binational panel reviews under NAFTA, see [section 432 of Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113/s432), set out as a note under [section 1516a of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1516a).

#### Effect of Termination of USMCA Country Status

For provisions relating to effect of termination of USMCA country status on sections 401 to 432 of [Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113), see [section 4601 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4601).
