---
title: "§ 804. Interim Compliance Panel"
identifier: "USC-T30-S804"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section804"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–173, § 5](/us/pl/91/173/s5), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 744](/us/stat/83/744); [Pub. L. 95–164, title I, § 102(d)](/us/pl/95/164/tI/s102/d), Nov. 9, 1977, [91 Stat. 1291](/us/stat/91/1291); [Pub. L. 95–251, § 2(a)(9)](/us/pl/95/251/s2/a/9), Mar. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 183](/us/stat/92/183); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695); [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(c)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/c), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. "
---
# § 804. Interim Compliance Panel

##### § 804. Interim Compliance Panel

(a) Establishment; composition There is hereby established the Interim Compliance Panel, which shall be composed of five members as follows:

(1) Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor Standards, Department of Labor, or his delegate;

(2) Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce, or his delegate;

(3) Administrator of Consumer Protection and Environmental Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, or his delegate;

(4) Director of the United States Bureau of Mines, Department of the Interior, or his delegate; and

(5) Director of the National Science Foundation, or his delegate.

(b) Compensation; travel and subsistence expenses Members of the Panel shall serve without compensation in addition to that received in their regular employment, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of duties vested in the Panel.

(c) Cooperation of Federal agencies Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Secretary shall, upon request of the Panel, provide the Panel such personnel and other assistance as the Panel determines necessary to enable it to carry out its functions under this chapter.

(d) Quorum; voting; selection of chairman Three members of the Panel shall constitute a quorum for doing business. All decisions of the Panel shall be by majority vote. The chairman of the Panel shall be selected by the members from among the membership thereof.

(e) Appointment of administrative law judges; provisions applicable The Panel is authorized to appoint as many administrative law judges as are necessary for proceedings required to be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The provisions applicable to administrative law judges appointed under [section 3105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3105) shall be applicable to administrative law judges appointed pursuant to this subsection.

(f) Functions; hearings; notice and review; termination; annual report

(1) It shall be the function of the Panel to carry out the duties imposed on it pursuant to this chapter and to provide an opportunity for a public hearing, after notice, at the request of an operator of the affected coal mine or the representative of the miners of such mine. Any operator or representative of miners aggrieved by a final decision of the Panel may file a petition for review of such decision under [section 816 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s816). The provisions of this section shall terminate upon completion of the Panel’s functions as set forth under this chapter. Any hearing held pursuant to this subsection shall be of record and the Panel shall make findings of fact and shall issue a written decision incorporating its findings therein in accordance with [section 554 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s554).

(2) The Panel shall make an annual report, in writing, to the Secretary for transmittal by him to the Congress concerning the achievement of its purposes, and any other relevant information (including any recommendations) which it deems appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 91–173, § 5](/us/pl/91/173/s5), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 744](/us/stat/83/744); [Pub. L. 95–164, title I, § 102(d)](/us/pl/95/164/tI/s102/d), Nov. 9, 1977, [91 Stat. 1291](/us/stat/91/1291); [Pub. L. 95–251, § 2(a)(9)](/us/pl/95/251/s2/a/9), Mar. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 183](/us/stat/92/183); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695); [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(c)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/c), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433); [Pub. L. 102–285, § 10(b)](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), May 18, 1992, [106 Stat. 172](/us/stat/106/172).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (c), (e), and (f)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–173](/us/pl/91/173), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 742](/us/stat/83/742), known as the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s801) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1988—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) substituted “National Institute of Standards and Technology” for “Bureau of Standards”.

1978—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 95–251](/us/pl/95/251) substituted “administrative law judges” for “hearing examiners” wherever appearing.

1977—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 95–164](/us/pl/95/164) substituted “Secretary of the Interior” for “Secretary of Labor”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“United States Bureau of Mines” substituted for “Bureau of Mines” in subsec. (a)(4) pursuant to [section 10(b) of Pub. L. 102–285](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1). For provisions relating to closure and transfer of functions of the United States Bureau of Mines, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1).

“Department of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Department of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsec. (a) and “Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsec. (c) pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b) which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–164](/us/pl/95/164) effective 120 days after Nov. 9, 1977, except as otherwise provided, see [section 307 of Pub. L. 95–164](/us/pl/95/164/s307), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s801).

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (f)(2) of this section relating to transmitting annual report to Congress, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and page 114 of House Document No. 103–7.
