---
title: "§ 5722. Presidential order"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5722"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5722"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–383, title II, § 202](/us/pl/102/383/tII/s202), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1453](/us/stat/106/1453).)"
---
# § 5722. Presidential order

##### § 5722. Presidential order

(a) Presidential determination On or after July 1, 1997, whenever the President determines that Hong Kong is not sufficiently autonomous to justify treatment under a particular law of the United States, or any provision thereof, different from that accorded the People’s Republic of China, the President may issue an Executive order suspending the application of [section 5721(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5721/a) to such law or provision of law.

(b) Factor for consideration In making a determination under subsection (a) with respect to the application of a law of the United States, or any provision thereof, to Hong Kong, the President should consider the terms, obligations, and expectations expressed in the Joint Declaration with respect to Hong Kong.

(c) Publication in Federal Register Any Executive order issued under subsection (a) shall be published in the Federal Register and shall specify the law or provision of law affected by the order.

(d) Termination of suspension An Executive order issued under subsection (a) may be terminated by the President with respect to a particular law or provision of law whenever the President determines that Hong Kong has regained sufficient autonomy to justify different treatment under the law or provision of law in question. Notice of any such termination shall be published in the Federal Register.

*([Pub. L. 102–383, title II, § 202](/us/pl/102/383/tII/s202), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1453](/us/stat/106/1453).)*
