---
title: "§ 16093. Fuel cell school buses"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16093"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16093"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title VII, § 743](/us/pl/109/58/tVII/s743), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 826](/us/stat/119/826).)"
---
# § 16093. Fuel cell school buses

##### § 16093. Fuel cell school buses

(a) Establishment The Secretary shall establish a program for entering into cooperative agreements—

(1) with private sector fuel cell bus developers for the development of fuel cell-powered school buses; and

(2) subsequently, with not less than 2 units of local government using natural gas-powered school buses and such private sector fuel cell bus developers to demonstrate the use of fuel cell-powered school buses.

(b) Cost sharing The non-Federal contribution for activities funded under this section shall be not less than—

(1) 20 percent for fuel infrastructure development activities; and

(2) 50 percent for demonstration activities and for development activities not described in paragraph (1).

(c) Reports to Congress Not later than 3 years after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report that—

(1) evaluates the process of converting natural gas infrastructure to accommodate fuel cell-powered school buses; and

(2) assesses the results of the development and demonstration program under this section.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $25,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2006 through 2009.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title VII, § 743](/us/pl/109/58/tVII/s743), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 826](/us/stat/119/826).)*
