---
title: "§ 646. Other provisions"
identifier: "USC-T47-S646"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section646"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VIII, § 806, as added [Pub. L. 116–130, § 2](/us/pl/116/130/s2), Mar. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 238](/us/stat/134/238); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title I, § 60102(h)(2)(E)(ii)](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tI/s60102/h/2/E/ii), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/135/1198).)"
---
# § 646. Other provisions

##### § 646. Other provisions

(a) OMB Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the initial rule making required under [section 642(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/a/1) shall be exempt from review by the Office of Management and Budget.

(b) PRA Subchapter I of chapter 35 of title 44 (commonly known as the “Paperwork Reduction Act”) shall not apply to any rule making or other action by the Commission required under this subchapter.

(c) Execution of responsibilities Except, with respect to an entity that is not the Universal Service Administrative Company, as provided in [section 642(a)(2)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/a/2/B), [section 642(b)(1)(A)(ii) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/b/1/A/ii), and subsections (c), (d), and (e) of [section 644 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s644), the Commission—

(1) including the offices of the Commission, shall carry out the responsibilities assigned to the Commission under this subchapter; and

(2) may not delegate any of the responsibilities assigned to the Commission under this subchapter to any third party, including the Universal Service Administrative Company.

(d) Reporting Each fiscal year, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that summarizes the implementation of this subchapter and associated enforcement activities conducted during the previous fiscal year.

(e) Rule of construction If the Commission, before March 23, 2020, has taken an action that, in whole or in part, implements this subchapter, the Commission shall not be required to revisit such action to the extent that such action is consistent with this subchapter.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VIII, § 806, as added [Pub. L. 116–130, § 2](/us/pl/116/130/s2), Mar. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 238](/us/stat/134/238); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title I, § 60102(h)(2)(E)(ii)](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tI/s60102/h/2/E/ii), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/135/1198).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) substituted “any rule making or other action by the Commission required under this subchapter” for “the initial rule making required under [section 642(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/a/1)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Implementation

For requirement to implement amendment made by [section 60102(h)(2)(E)(ii) of Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58/s60102/h/2/E/ii) as soon as possible after Nov. 15, 2021, see [section 1702(h)(2)(E)(iii) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1702/h/2/E/iii).
