---
title: "§ 10722. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10722"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10722"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3032](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3032), as added [Pub. L. 115–76, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/76/s3/a), Nov. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/131/1248).)"
---
# § 10722. Purposes

##### § 10722. Purposes

(1) To ensure that training is available for State, local, tribal and territorial law enforcement agencies and officers nationwide to support local efforts to identify, prevent, investigate, and prosecute cyber and financial crimes, including those crimes facilitated via computer networks and other electronic means, and crimes involving financial and economic impacts such as intellectual property crimes.

(2) To deliver training to State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, and other criminal justice professionals concerning the use of proven methodologies to prevent, detect, and respond to such crimes, recognize emerging issues, manage electronic and financial crime evidence and to improve local criminal justice agency responses to such threats.

(3) To provide operational and technical assistance and training concerning tools, products, resources, guidelines, and procedures to aid and enhance criminal intelligence analysis, conduct cyber crime and financial crime investigations, and related justice information sharing at the local and State levels.

(4) To provide appropriate training on protections for privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties in the conduct of criminal intelligence analysis and cyber and electronic crime and financial crime investigations, including in the development of policies, guidelines, and procedures by State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement agencies to protect and enhance privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties protections and identify weaknesses and gaps in the protection of privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3032](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3032), as added [Pub. L. 115–76, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/76/s3/a), Nov. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/131/1248).)*
