---
title: "§ 16279. Budget plan"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16279"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16279"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 959](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s959), as added [Pub. L. 115–248, § 2(i)](/us/pl/115/248/s2/i), Sept. 28, 2018, [132 Stat. 3160](/us/stat/132/3160); amended [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title II, § 2005](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tII/s2005), [134 Stat. 2470](/us/stat/134/2470).)"
---
# § 16279. Budget plan

##### § 16279. Budget plan

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after September 28, 2018, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives 2 alternative 10-year budget plans for civilian nuclear energy research and development by the Secretary, as described in subsections (b) through (d).

(b) Budget plan alternative 1 One of the budget plans submitted under subsection (a) shall assume constant annual funding for 10 years at the appropriated level for the current fiscal year for the civilian nuclear energy research and development of the Department.

(c) Budget plan alternative 2 One of the budget plans submitted under subsection (a) shall be an unconstrained budget.

(d) Inclusions Each alternative budget plan submitted under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) a prioritized list of the programs, projects, and activities of the Department to best support the development of advanced nuclear reactor technologies;

(2) realistic budget requirements for the Department to implement sections 16275(c), 16277, and 16278 of this title;

(3) the justification of the Department for continuing or terminating existing civilian nuclear energy research and development programs; and

(4) a description of the progress made under the programs described in [section 16279a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16279a).

(e) Updates Not less frequently than once every 2 years, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate updated 10-year budget plans which shall identify, and provide a justification for, any major deviation from a previous budget plan submitted under this section.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 959](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s959), as added [Pub. L. 115–248, § 2(i)](/us/pl/115/248/s2/i), Sept. 28, 2018, [132 Stat. 3160](/us/stat/132/3160); amended [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title II, § 2005](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tII/s2005), [134 Stat. 2470](/us/stat/134/2470).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 2005(1)](/us/pl/116/260/s2005/1), amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “One of the budget plans submitted under subsection (a) shall assume constant annual funding for 10 years at the appropriated level for the civilian nuclear energy research and development of the Department for fiscal year 2016.”

Subsec. (d)(4). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 2005(2)](/us/pl/116/260/s2005/2)–(4), added par. (4).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 2005(5)](/us/pl/116/260/s2005/5), added subsec. (e).
