---
title: "§ 1743. Demand on postmaster"
identifier: "USC-T28-S1743"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section1743"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 948](/us/stat/62/948); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)"
---
# § 1743. Demand on postmaster

##### § 1743. Demand on postmaster

The certificate of the Postmaster General or the Government Accountability Office of the mailing to a postmaster of a statement of his account and that payment of the balance stated has not been received shall be sufficient evidence of a demand notwithstanding any allowances or credits subsequently made. A copy of such statement shall be attached to the certificate.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 948](/us/stat/62/948); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 670 (R.S. § 890; [June 10, 1921, ch. 18, § 301](/us/act/1921-06-10/ch18/s301), [42 Stat. 23](/us/stat/42/23)).

Provisions in [section 670 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s670), U.S.C., 1940 ed., that the statement should recite that a letter has been mailed to a described post office and sufficient time has elapsed for it to have reached its destination, was omitted as superfluous.

The last clause of [section 670 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s670), U.S.C., 1940 ed., was omitted as covered by the phrase “notwithstanding any allowances or credits subsequently made” in the revised section.

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—[Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271) substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

The office of Postmaster General of the Post Office Department was abolished and all functions, powers, and duties of the Postmaster General were transferred to the United States Postal Service by [Pub. L. 91–375, § 4(a)](/us/pl/91/375/s4/a), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 773](/us/stat/84/773), set out as a note under [section 201 of Title 39](/us/usc/t39/s201), Postal Service.
