---
title: "§ 460u–24. Little Calumet River and Burns/Portage Waterway"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460u–24"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460u–24"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–761, § 24](/us/pl/89/761/s24), as added [Pub. L. 99–583, § 1(i)](/us/pl/99/583/s1/i), Oct. 29, 1986, [100 Stat. 3320](/us/stat/100/3320); amended [Pub. L. 116–6, div. E, title I, § 115(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/6/dE/tI/s115/a/1), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 232](/us/stat/133/232).)"
---
# § 460u–24. Little Calumet River and Burns/Portage Waterway

##### § 460u–24. Little Calumet River and Burns/Portage Waterway

(a) Cooperative agreement The Secretary may enter into a cooperative agreement with the Little Calumet River Basin Development Commission, the State of Indiana or any political subdivision thereof for the planning, management, and interpretation of recreational facilities on the tract within the boundaries of Indiana Dunes National Park identified as tract numbered 09–177 11 So in original. Probably should be “09–117”. or on lands under the jurisdiction of the State of Indiana or political subdivision thereof along the Little Calumet River and Burns Waterway. The cooperative agreement may include provision for the planning of public facilities for boating, canoeing, fishing, hiking, bicycling, and other compatible recreational activities. Any recreational developments on lands under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service planned pursuant to this cooperative agreement shall be in a manner consistent with the purposes of this subchapter, including [section 460u–6(b) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460u–6/b).

(b) Study The Secretary shall conduct a study regarding the options available for linking the portions of the Park which are divided by the Little Calumet River and Burns/Portage Waterway so as to coordinate the management and recreational use of the Park. The Secretary shall submit the results of the study to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate within two years after October 29, 1986. Effective October 1, 1986, there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the purposes of conducting the study.

*([Pub. L. 89–761, § 24](/us/pl/89/761/s24), as added [Pub. L. 99–583, § 1(i)](/us/pl/99/583/s1/i), Oct. 29, 1986, [100 Stat. 3320](/us/stat/100/3320); amended [Pub. L. 116–6, div. E, title I, § 115(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/6/dE/tI/s115/a/1), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 232](/us/stat/133/232).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–6, § 115(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/116/6/s115/a/1/A), substituted “National Park” for “National Lakeshore”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–6, § 115(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/6/s115/a/1/B), substituted “Park” for “lakeshore” in two places.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.
