---
title: "§ 6867. Administration of projects receiving financial assistance"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6867"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6867"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–385, title IV, § 417](/us/pl/94/385/tIV/s417), Aug. 14, 1976, [90 Stat. 1156](/us/stat/90/1156); [Pub. L. 96–294, title V, § 577(2)](/us/pl/96/294/tV/s577/2), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 760](/us/stat/94/760).)"
---
# § 6867. Administration of projects receiving financial assistance

##### § 6867. Administration of projects receiving financial assistance

(a) Reporting requirements The Secretary, in consultation with the Director, by general or special orders, may require any recipient of financial assistance under this part to provide, in such form as he may prescribe, such reports or answers in writing to specific questions, surveys, or questionnaires as may be necessary to enable the Secretary and the Director to carry out their functions under this part.

(b) Maintenance of records Each person responsible for the administration of a weatherization assistance project receiving financial assistance under this part shall keep such records as the Secretary may prescribe in order to assure an effective financial audit and performance evaluation of such project.

(c) Audit and examination of books, etc. The Secretary, the Director (with respect to community action agencies), and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, information, and records of any project receiving financial assistance under this part that are pertinent to the financial assistance received under this part.

(d) Method of payments Payments under this part may be made in installments and in advance, or by way of reimbursement, with necessary adjustments on account of overpayments or underpayments.

*([Pub. L. 94–385, title IV, § 417](/us/pl/94/385/tIV/s417), Aug. 14, 1976, [90 Stat. 1156](/us/stat/90/1156); [Pub. L. 96–294, title V, § 577(2)](/us/pl/96/294/tV/s577/2), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 760](/us/stat/94/760).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1980—Subsecs. (a) to (c). [Pub. L. 96–294](/us/pl/96/294) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.
