---
title: "§ 30142. Importing motor vehicles for personal use"
identifier: "USC-T49-S30142"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section30142"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 962](/us/stat/108/962).)"
---
# § 30142. Importing motor vehicles for personal use

##### § 30142. Importing motor vehicles for personal use

(a) General.— [Section 30112(a) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30112/a) does not apply to an imported motor vehicle if—

(1) the vehicle is imported for personal use, and not for resale, by an individual (except an individual described in sections 30143 and 30144 of this title);

(2) the vehicle is imported after January 31, 1990; and

(3) the individual takes the actions required under subsection (b) of this section to receive an exemption.

(b) Exemptions.—

(1) To receive an exemption under subsection (a) of this section, an individual must—

(A) provide the Secretary of the Treasury (acting for the Secretary of Transportation) with—

(i) an appropriate bond in an amount determined under [section 30141(d) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30141/d);

(ii) a copy of an agreement with an importer registered under [section 30141(c) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30141/c) for bringing the motor vehicle into compliance with applicable motor vehicle safety standards prescribed under this chapter; and

(iii) a certification that the vehicle meets the requirement of section 30141(a)(1)(A) or (B) of this title; and

(B) comply with appropriate terms the Secretary of Transportation imposes to ensure that the vehicle—

(i) will be brought into compliance with those standards within a reasonable time (specified by the Secretary of Transportation) after the vehicle is imported; or

(ii) will be exported (at no cost to the United States Government) by the Secretary of the Treasury or abandoned to the Government.

(2) For good cause shown, the Secretary of Transportation may allow an individual additional time, but not more than 30 days after the day on which the motor vehicle is offered for import, to comply with paragraph (1)(A)(ii) of this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 962](/us/stat/108/962).)*

In subsection (a)(2), the words “after January 31, 1990” are substituted for “after the effective date of the regulations initially issued to implement the amendments made to this section by the Imported Vehicle Safety Compliance Act of 1988” for clarity. See 49 C.F.R. part 591.

In subsection (a)(3), the words “the individual takes the actions required under subsection (b) of this section” are substituted for “if that individual takes the actions required by paragraph (2)” for clarity and because of the restatement.

In subsection (b)(1), the word “compliance” is substituted for “conformity” for consistency in this chapter.

In subsection (b)(1)(B), before subclause (i), the word “conditions” is omitted as being included in “terms”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30142(a) | 15:1397(f)(1). | Sept. 9, 1966, Pub. L. 89–563, 80 Stat. 718, § 108(f); added Oct. 31, 1988, Pub. L. 100–562, § 2(b), 102 Stat. 2822. |
| 30142(b) | 15:1397(f)(2). |  |
