---
title: "§ 6115. Major warhead refurbishment program"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1352](/us/stat/139/1352).)"
---
# § 6115. Major warhead refurbishment program

##### § 6115. Major warhead refurbishment program

(1) a full description of alternatives considered prior to the award of Phase 6.3;

(2) a comparison of the costs and benefits of each of those alternatives, to include an analysis of trade-offs among cost, schedule, and performance objectives against each alternative considered;

(3) identification of the cost and risk of critical technology elements associated with each alternative, including technology maturity, integration risk, manufacturing feasibility, and demonstration needs;

(4) identification of the cost and risk of additional capital asset and infrastructure capabilities required to support production and certification of each alternative;

(5) a comparative analysis of the risks, costs, and scheduling needs for any military requirement intended to enhance warhead safety, security, or maintainability, including any requirement to consolidate and/or integrate warhead systems or mods as compared to at least one other feasible refurbishment alternative the Nuclear Weapons Council considers appropriate; and

(6) a life-cycle cost estimate for the alternative selected that details the overall cost, scope, and schedule planning assumptions.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1352](/us/stat/139/1352).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6115, [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 382](/us/stat/70A/382), prescribed a time limit for filing claims for drill pay and for the uniform gratuity. Section was also amended by [Pub. L. 85–861, § 33(a)(31)](/us/pl/85/861/s33/a/31), which amended catchline by substituting “uniform gratuity” for “unform gratuity”, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 85–861, § 36B(17)](/us/pl/85/861/s36B/17), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1571](/us/stat/72/1571).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2523c of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2523c), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(3)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/3).
