---
title: "§ 288f–1. European Space Agency and Organization of Eastern Caribbean States; extension of privileges, exemptions, and immunities to members"
identifier: "USC-T22-S288f–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section288f–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Dec. 29, 1945, ch. 652](/us/act/1945-12-29/ch652), title I, § 11, as added [Pub. L. 89–353](/us/pl/89/353), Feb. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 5](/us/stat/80/5); amended [Pub. L. 98–164, title I, § 120](/us/pl/98/164/tI/s120), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1023](/us/stat/97/1023); [Pub. L. 100–362](/us/pl/100/362), July 6, 1988, [102 Stat. 819](/us/stat/102/819).)"
---
# § 288f–1. European Space Agency and Organization of Eastern Caribbean States; extension of privileges, exemptions, and immunities to members

##### § 288f–1. European Space Agency and Organization of Eastern Caribbean States; extension of privileges, exemptions, and immunities to members

The provisions of this subchapter may be extended to the European Space Agency and to the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (including any office established in the United States by that organization) in the same manner, to the same extent, and subject to the same conditions, as they may be extended to a public international organization in which the United States participates pursuant to any treaty or under the authority of any Act of Congress authorizing such participation or making an appropriation for such participation.

*([Dec. 29, 1945, ch. 652](/us/act/1945-12-29/ch652), title I, § 11, as added [Pub. L. 89–353](/us/pl/89/353), Feb. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 5](/us/stat/80/5); amended [Pub. L. 98–164, title I, § 120](/us/pl/98/164/tI/s120), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1023](/us/stat/97/1023); [Pub. L. 100–362](/us/pl/100/362), July 6, 1988, [102 Stat. 819](/us/stat/102/819).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [act Dec. 29, 1945, ch. 652](/us/act/1945-12-29/ch652), [59 Stat. 669](/us/stat/59/669), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 288 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s288) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–362](/us/pl/100/362) inserted “and to the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (including any office established in the United States by that organization)” after “European Space Agency”.

1983—[Pub. L. 98–164](/us/pl/98/164) substituted “Space Agency” for “Space Research Organization”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Executive Order

For executive orders designating certain international organizations as public international organizations entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by the International Organizations Immunities Act (this subchapter), see notes set out under [section 288 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s288).
