---
title: "§ 300x–23. Intravenous substance use"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300x–23"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300x–23"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1923, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 202](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s202), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 390](/us/stat/106/390); amended [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, § 8002(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVIII/s8002/b), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/130/1229); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1241(a)(4)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1241/a/4), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5677](/us/stat/136/5677).)"
---
# § 300x–23. Intravenous substance use

##### § 300x–23. Intravenous substance use

(a) Capacity of treatment programs

(1) Notification of reaching capacity A funding agreement for a grant under [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21) is that the State involved will, in the case of programs of treatment for intravenous substance use disorders, require that any such program receiving amounts from the grant, upon reaching 90 percent of its capacity to admit individuals to the program, provide to the State a notification of such fact.

(2) Provision of treatment A funding agreement for a grant under [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21) is that the State involved will, with respect to notifications under paragraph (1), ensure that each individual who requests and is in need of treatment for intravenous substance use disorders is admitted to a program of such treatment not later than—

(A) 14 days after making the request for admission to such a program; or

(B) 120 days after the date of such request, if no such program has the capacity to admit the individual on the date of such request and if interim services are made available to the individual not later than 48 hours after such request.

(b) Outreach to persons who inject drugs A funding agreement for a grant under [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21) is that the State involved, in providing amounts from the grant to any entity for treatment services for persons who inject drugs, will require the entity to carry out activities to encourage individuals in need of such treatment to undergo treatment.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1923, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 202](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s202), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 390](/us/stat/106/390); amended [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, § 8002(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVIII/s8002/b), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/130/1229); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1241(a)(4)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1241/a/4), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5677](/us/stat/136/5677).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1923 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 300x–9b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–9b) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321).

Another prior section 1923 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 300y–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300y–2) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690).

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–328, § 1241(a)(4)(A)](/us/pl/117/328/s1241/a/4/A), substituted “substance use” for “substance abuse” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1241(a)(4)(B)](/us/pl/117/328/s1241/a/4/B), which directed amendment of subsec. (a) by substituting “substance use disorders” for “drug abuse”, was executed by making the substitution both places “drug abuse” appeared, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

2016—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–255](/us/pl/114/255) substituted “to persons who inject drugs” for “regarding intravenous substance abuse” in heading and “for persons who inject drugs” for “for intravenous drug abuse” in text.
