---
title: "§ 460a–2. Blue Ridge Parkway; establishment; administration and maintenance"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460a–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460a–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 30, 1936, ch. 883, § 1](/us/act/1936-06-30/ch883/s1), [49 Stat. 2041](/us/stat/49/2041); [June 8, 1940, ch. 277](/us/act/1940-06-08/ch277), [54 Stat. 249](/us/stat/54/249).)"
---
# § 460a–2. Blue Ridge Parkway; establishment; administration and maintenance

##### § 460a–2. Blue Ridge Parkway; establishment; administration and maintenance

All lands and easements heretofore or hereafter conveyed to the United States by the States of Virginia and North Carolina for the right-of-way for the projected parkway between the Shenandoah and Great Smoky Mountains National Parks, together with sites acquired or to be acquired for recreational areas in connection therewith, and a right-of-way for said parkway of a width sufficient to include the highway and all bridges, ditches, cuts, and fills appurtenant thereto, but not exceeding a maximum of two hundred feet through Government-owned lands (except that where small parcels of Government-owned lands would otherwise be isolated, or where topographic conditions or scenic requirements are such that bridges, ditches, cuts, fills, parking overlooks, landscape development, recreational and other facilities requisite to public use of said parkway could not reasonably be confined to a width of two hundred feet, the said maximum may be increased to such width as may be necessary, with the written approval of the department or agency having jurisdiction over such lands) as designated on maps heretofore or hereafter approved by the Secretary of the Interior, shall be known as the Blue Ridge Parkway and shall be administered and maintained by the Secretary of the Interior through the National Park Service, subject to the provisions of the Act of Congress approved August 25, 1916 ([39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535)), entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”,11 See References in Text note below. the provisions of which Act, as amended and supplemented, are extended over and made applicable to said parkway: *Provided*, That the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Interior, to connect with the parkway such roads and trails as may be necessary for the protection, administration, or utilization of adjacent and nearby national forests and the resources thereof: *And provided further*, That the Forest Service and the National Park Service shall, insofar as practicable, coordinate and correlate such recreational development as each may plan, construct, or permit to be constructed, on lands within their respective jurisdictions which, by mutual agreement, should be given special treatment for recreational purposes.

*([June 30, 1936, ch. 883, § 1](/us/act/1936-06-30/ch883/s1), [49 Stat. 2041](/us/stat/49/2041); [June 8, 1940, ch. 277](/us/act/1940-06-08/ch277), [54 Stat. 249](/us/stat/54/249).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of Congress approved August 25, 1916 ([39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535)), entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408](/us/act/1916-08-25/ch408), [39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535), known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101), National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as [section 1865(a) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1865/a), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).

#### Amendments

1940—Act June 8, 1940, inserted exceptions set out in parentheses.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Federal Works Agency and of all agencies thereof, together with functions of Federal Works Administrator transferred to Administrator of General Services by section 103(a) of [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title I](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288/tI), [63 Stat. 380](/us/stat/63/380). Both Federal Works Agency and office of Federal Works Administrator abolished by section 103(b) of that act. See Historical and Revision Notes under [section 303(b) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303/b), Public Buildings, Property, and Works. [Section 303(b) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303/b) was amended generally by [Pub. L. 109–313, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/313/s2/a/1), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1734](/us/stat/120/1734), and, as so amended, no longer relates to the Federal Works Agency and Commissioner of Public Buildings. See 2006 Amendment note under [section 303 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303).

#### Effective Date of Transfer of Functions

Transfer of functions by act June 30, 1949, as effective July 1, 1949, see section 605, formerly § 505, of [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288), [63 Stat. 403](/us/stat/63/403); renumbered by [act Sept. 5, 1950, ch. 849, § 6(a)](/us/act/1950-09-05/ch849/s6/a), (b), [64 Stat. 583](/us/stat/64/583).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Functions of Administrator of General Services transferred to Secretary of Commerce by Reorg. Plan No. 7 of 1949, § 2, eff. Aug. 20, 1949, 14 F.R. 5228, [63 Stat. 1070](/us/stat/63/1070), set out in the Appendix to Title 5.

Functions, powers, and duties of Secretary of Commerce and other officers and offices of Department of Commerce relating generally to highways under Reorg. Plan No. 7 of 1949 transferred to and vested in Secretary of Transportation by [Pub. L. 89–670, § 6(a)(1)(M)](/us/pl/89/670/s6/a/1/M), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 938](/us/stat/80/938). Reorg. Plan No. 7 of 1949 was amended by [section 2(b) of Pub. L. 97–449](/us/pl/97/449/s2/b), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2439](/us/stat/96/2439), to reflect such transfer.
