---
title: "§ 3352h. Timeliness standard for rendering determinations of trust for personnel vetting"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3352h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3352h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title VII, § 7702](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tVII/s7702), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/137/1100).)"
---
# § 3352h. Timeliness standard for rendering determinations of trust for personnel vetting

##### § 3352h. Timeliness standard for rendering determinations of trust for personnel vetting

(a) Timeliness standard

(1) In general The President shall, acting through the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent, establish and publish in such public venue as the President considers appropriate, new timeliness performance standards for processing personnel vetting trust determinations in accordance with the Federal personnel vetting performance management standards.

(2) Quinquennial reviews Not less frequently than once every 5 years, the President shall, acting through the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent—

(A) review the standards established pursuant to paragraph (1); and

(B) pursuant to such review—

(i) update such standards as the President considers appropriate; and

(ii) publish in the Federal Register such updates as may be made pursuant to clause (i).

(3) Omitted

(b) Quarterly reports on implementation

(1) In general Not less frequently than quarterly, the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall jointly make available to the public a quarterly report on the compliance of Executive agencies (as defined in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105)) with the standards established pursuant to subsection (a).

(2) Disaggregation Each report made available pursuant to paragraph (1) shall disaggregate, to the greatest extent practicable, data by appropriate category of personnel risk and between Government and contractor personnel.

(c) Complementary standards for intelligence community The Director of National Intelligence may, in consultation with the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing Performance Accountability Council established pursuant to Executive Order 13467 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note; relating to reforming processes related to suitability for Government employment, fitness for contractor employees, and eligibility for access to classified national security information) establish for the intelligence community standards complementary to those established pursuant to subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title VII, § 7702](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tVII/s7702), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/137/1100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order 13467, referred to in subsec. (c), is Ex. Ord. No. 13467, June 30, 2008, 73 F.R. 38103, which is set out as a note under [section 3161 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3161).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 7702 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s7702). Subsec. (a)(3) of [section 7702 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s7702) amended [section 3341 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3341).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “intelligence community” as used in this section, see [section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s7002), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
