---
title: "§ 7463. Issuance of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7463"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7463"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 554](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s554), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1065](/us/stat/110/1065); [Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, § 603(a)](/us/pl/105/185/tVI/s603/a), June 23, 1998, [112 Stat. 585](/us/stat/112/585).)"
---
# § 7463. Issuance of orders

##### § 7463. Issuance of orders

(a) Issuance To effectuate the purposes of this subchapter specified in [section 7461(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7461/b), the Secretary shall issue an order applicable to producers, handlers, and importers of kiwifruit. Any such order shall be national in scope. Not more than 1 order shall be in effect under this subchapter at any 1 time.

(b) Procedure

(1) Proposal for issuance of order Any person that will be affected by this subchapter may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for, an order under this subchapter.

(2) Proposed order Not later than 90 days after the receipt of a request and proposal for an order, the Secretary shall publish a proposed order and give due notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order.

(3) Issuance of order After notice and opportunity for public comment are provided under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue an order, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the order provisions necessary to ensure that the order is in conformity with this subchapter.

(c) Amendments The Secretary may amend any order issued under this section. The provisions of this subchapter applicable to an order shall be applicable to an amendment to an order, except that an amendment to an order shall not require a referendum to become effective.

*([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 554](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s554), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1065](/us/stat/110/1065); [Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, § 603(a)](/us/pl/105/185/tVI/s603/a), June 23, 1998, [112 Stat. 585](/us/stat/112/585).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 105–185](/us/pl/105/185) inserted “, except that an amendment to an order shall not require a referendum to become effective” before period at end.
