---
title: "§ 2702. Declaration of policy"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–497, § 3](/us/pl/100/497/s3), Oct. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 2467](/us/stat/102/2467).)"
---
# § 2702. Declaration of policy

##### § 2702. Declaration of policy

(1) to provide a statutory basis for the operation of gaming by Indian tribes as a means of promoting tribal economic development, self-sufficiency, and strong tribal governments;

(2) to provide a statutory basis for the regulation of gaming by an Indian tribe adequate to shield it from organized crime and other corrupting influences, to ensure that the Indian tribe is the primary beneficiary of the gaming operation, and to assure that gaming is conducted fairly and honestly by both the operator and players; and

(3) to declare that the establishment of independent Federal regulatory authority for gaming on Indian lands, the establishment of Federal standards for gaming on Indian lands, and the establishment of a National Indian Gaming Commission are necessary to meet congressional concerns regarding gaming and to protect such gaming as a means of generating tribal revenue.

*([Pub. L. 100–497, § 3](/us/pl/100/497/s3), Oct. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 2467](/us/stat/102/2467).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 100–497](/us/pl/100/497), Oct. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 2467](/us/stat/102/2467), known as the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2701 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2701) and Tables.
