---
title: "§ 1677g. Interest on certain overpayments and underpayments"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1677g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1677g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 778, as added [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 101](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s101), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 188](/us/stat/93/188); amended [Pub. L. 98–573, title VI, § 621](/us/pl/98/573/tVI/s621), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3039](/us/stat/98/3039); [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095).)"
---
# § 1677g. Interest on certain overpayments and underpayments

##### § 1677g. Interest on certain overpayments and underpayments

(a) General rule Interest shall be payable on overpayments and underpayments of amounts deposited on merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on and after—

(1) the date of publication of a countervailing or antidumping duty order under this subtitle or section 1303 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, or

(2) the date of a finding under the Antidumping Act, 1921.

(b) Rate The rate of interest payable under subsection (a) for any period of time is the rate of interest established under [section 6621 of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s6621) for such period.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 778, as added [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 101](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s101), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 188](/us/stat/93/188); amended [Pub. L. 98–573, title VI, § 621](/us/pl/98/573/tVI/s621), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3039](/us/stat/98/3039); [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1303 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1303), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is defined in [section 1677(26) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1677/26) to mean section 1330 as in effect on the day before Jan. 1, 1995.

The Antidumping Act, 1921, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [act May 27, 1921, ch. 14, title II](/us/act/1921-05-27/ch14/tII), [42 Stat. 11](/us/stat/42/11), which was classified generally to sections 160 to 171 of this title, and was repealed by [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s106/a), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 193](/us/stat/93/193).

#### Amendments

1986—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”, which for purposes of codification was translated as “title 26” thus requiring no change in text.

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573) amended subsec. (a) generally, substituting provisions making interest payable on and after the date of publication of a countervailing or antidumping duty order under this subtitle or [section 1303 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1303) or the date of a finding under the Antidumping Act, 1921 for provisions making interest payable on and after the date on which notice of an affirmative determination by the Commission under section 1671d(b) or 1673d(b) of this title with respect to such merchandise was published.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573) amended subsec. (b) generally, substituting provisions that the rate of interest payable under subsec. (a) for any period of time is the rate of interest established under [section 6621 of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s6621) for such period for provision that the rate at which such interest was payable would be 8 percent per annum or, if higher, the rate in effect under [section 6621 of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s6621) on the date on which the rate or amount of the duty was finally determined.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573) applicable with respect to merchandise that is unliquidated on or after Nov. 4, 1984, see [section 626(b)(4) of Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573/s626/b/4), set out as a note under [section 1671 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671).
