---
title: "§ 1451. Deadlines for auction of certain spectrum"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1451"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1451"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6401](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6401), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 222](/us/stat/126/222).)"
---
# § 1451. Deadlines for auction of certain spectrum

##### § 1451. Deadlines for auction of certain spectrum

(a) Clearing certain Federal spectrum

(1) In general The President shall—

(A) not later than 3 years after February 22, 2012, begin the process of withdrawing or modifying the assignment to a Federal Government station of the electromagnetic spectrum described in paragraph (2); and

(B) not later than 30 days after completing the withdrawal or modification, notify the Commission that the withdrawal or modification is complete.

(2) Spectrum described The electromagnetic spectrum described in this paragraph is the 15 megahertz of spectrum between 1675 megahertz and 1710 megahertz identified under paragraph (3).

(3) Identification by Secretary of Commerce Not later than 1 year after February 22, 2012, the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the President a report identifying 15 megahertz of spectrum between 1675 megahertz and 1710 megahertz for reallocation from Federal use to non-Federal use.

(b) Reallocation and auction

(1) In general Notwithstanding paragraph (15)(A) of [section 309(j) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s309/j), not later than 3 years after February 22, 2012, the Commission shall, except as provided in paragraph (4)—

(A) allocate the spectrum described in paragraph (2) for commercial use; and

(B) through a system of competitive bidding under such section, grant new initial licenses for the use of such spectrum, subject to flexible-use service rules.

(2) Spectrum described The spectrum described in this paragraph is the following:

(A) The frequencies between 1915 megahertz and 1920 megahertz.

(B) The frequencies between 1995 megahertz and 2000 megahertz.

(C) The frequencies described in subsection (a)(2).

(D) The frequencies between 2155 megahertz and 2180 megahertz.

(E) Fifteen megahertz of contiguous spectrum to be identified by the Commission.

(3) Proceeds to cover 110 percent of Federal relocation or sharing costs Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to relieve the Commission from the requirements of [section 309(j)(16)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s309/j/16/B).

(4) Determination by Commission If the Commission determines that the band of frequencies described in paragraph (2)(A) or the band of frequencies described in paragraph (2)(B) cannot be used without causing harmful interference to commercial mobile service licensees in the frequencies between 1930 megahertz and 1995 megahertz, the Commission may not—

(A) allocate such band for commercial use under paragraph (1)(A); or

(B) grant licenses under paragraph (1)(B) for the use of such band.

(c) Omitted

*([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6401](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6401), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 222](/us/stat/126/222).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 6401 of Pub. L. 112–96](/us/pl/112/96/s6401). Subsec. (c) of [section 6401 of Pub. L. 112–96](/us/pl/112/96/s6401) amended [section 309 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s309).
