---
title: "§ 6801. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6801"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6801"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s802), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3377](/us/stat/118/3377); [Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 311(a)](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s311/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2891](/us/stat/138/2891).)"
---
# § 6801. Definitions

##### § 6801. Definitions

(1) Entrance fee The term “entrance fee” means the recreation fee authorized to be charged to enter onto lands managed by the National Park Service or the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.

(2) Expanded amenity recreation fee The term “expanded amenity recreation fee” means the recreation fee authorized by [section 6802(g) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802/g).

(3) Federal land management agency The term “Federal land management agency” means the National Park Service, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Reclamation, or the Forest Service.

(4) Federal recreational lands and waters The term “Federal recreational lands and waters” means lands or waters managed by a Federal land management agency.

(5) National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass The term “National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass” means the interagency national pass authorized by [section 6804 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804).

(6) Passholder The term “passholder” means the person who is issued a recreation pass.

(7) Recreation fee The term “recreation fee” means an entrance fee, standard amenity recreation fee, expanded amenity recreation fee, or special recreation permit fee.

(8) Recreation pass The term “recreation pass” means the National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass or one of the other recreation passes available as authorized by [section 6804 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804).

(9) Recreation service provider The term “recreation service provider” means a person that provides recreational services to the public under a special recreation permit under clause (iii) or (iv) of paragraph (13)(A).

(10) Secretaries The term “Secretaries” means the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture acting jointly.

(11) Secretary The term “Secretary” means—

(A) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to a Federal land management agency (other than the Forest Service); and

(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to the Forest Service.

(12) Special account The term “special account” means the special account established in the Treasury under [section 6806 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6806) for a Federal land management agency.

(13) Special recreation permit

(A) In general The term “special recreation permit” means a permit issued by a Federal land management agency for the use of Federal recreational lands and waters—

(i) for a specialized recreational use not described in clause (ii), (iii), or (iv), such as—

(I) an organizational camp;

(II) a single event that does not require an entry or participation fee that is not strictly a sharing of expenses for the purposes of the event; and

(III) participation by the public in a recreation activity or recreation use of a specific area of Federal recreational lands and waters in which use by the public is allocated;

(ii) for a large-group activity or event of 75 participants or more;

(iii) for—

(I) at the discretion of the Secretary, a single organized group recreation activity or event (including an activity or event in which motorized recreational vehicles are used or in which outfitting and guiding services are used) that—

(aa) is a structured or scheduled event or activity;

(bb) is not competitive and is for fewer than 75 participants;

(cc) may charge an entry or participation fee;

(dd) involves fewer than 200 visitor-use days; and

(ee) is undertaken or provided by the recreation service provider at the same site not more frequently than 3 times a year;

(II) a single competitive event; or

(III) at the discretion of the Secretary, a recurring organized group recreation activity (including an outfitting and guiding activity) that—

(aa) is a structured or scheduled activity;

(bb) is not competitive;

(cc) may charge a participation fee;

(dd) occurs in a group size of fewer than 7 participants;

(ee) involves fewer than 40 visitor-use days; and

(ff) is undertaken or provided by the recreation service provider for a term of not more than 180 days; or

(iv) for—

(I) a recurring outfitting, guiding, or, at the discretion of the Secretary, other recreation service, the authorization for which is for a term of not more than 10 years; or

(II) a recurring outfitting, guiding, or, at the discretion of the Secretary, other recreation service, that occurs under a temporary special recreation permit authorized under [section 8545 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8545).

(B) Exclusions The term “special recreation permit” does not include—

(i) a concession contract for the provision of accommodations, facilities, or services;

(ii) a commercial use authorization issued under [section 101925 of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s101925); or

(iii) any other type of permit, including a special use permit administered by the National Park Service.

(14) Special recreation permit fee The term “special recreation permit fee” means the fee authorized by [section 6802(h)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802/h/2).

(15) Standard amenity recreation fee The term “standard amenity recreation fee” means the recreation fee authorized by [section 6802(f) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802/f).

(16) State The term “State” means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each territory of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s802), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3377](/us/stat/118/3377); [Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 311(a)](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s311/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2891](/us/stat/138/2891).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(1)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/1), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in introductory provisions as reference to this chapter.

Par. (1). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(8)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/8), redesignated par. (3) as (1). Former par. (1) redesignated (15).

[Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(2)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/2), prior to redesignation of par. (1) as (15), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6802(f) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802/f).

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(3)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/3), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6802(g) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802/g).

Pars. (3) to (5). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(8)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/8), redesignated pars. (4) to (6) as (3) to (5), respectively. Former par. (3) redesignated (1).

Par. (6). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(8)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/8), redesignated par. (7) as (6). Former par. (6) redesignated (5).

[Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(4)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/4), prior to redesignation of par. (6) as (5), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6804 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804).

Pars. (7), (8). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(8)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/8), redesignated pars. (8) and (9) as (7) and (8), respectively. Former par. (7) redesignated (6).

Par. (9). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(9)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/9), added par. (9). Former par. (9) redesignated (8).

[Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(5)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/5), prior to redesignation of par. (9) as (8), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6804 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804).

Pars. (10), (11). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(8)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/8), redesignated pars. (10) and (11) as (11) and (10), respectively.

Par. (12). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(6)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/6), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 6806 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6806).

Par. (13). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(10)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/10), added par. (13). Former par. (13) redesignated (14).

[Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(7)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/7), prior to redesignation of par. (13) as (14), substituted “[section 6802(h)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802/h/2)” for “[section 6802(h) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6802/h)”.

Par. (14). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(8)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/8), redesignated par. (13) as (14).

Par. (15). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(8)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/8), redesignated par. (1) as (15).

Par. (16). [Pub. L. 118–234, § 311(a)(11)](/us/pl/118/234/s311/a/11), added par. (16).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2020 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–205, § 1](/us/pl/116/205/s1), Dec. 3, 2020, [134 Stat. 996](/us/stat/134/996), provided that: “This Act [amending [section 6804 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804)] may be cited as the ‘Wounded Veterans Recreation Act’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 801(a)](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s801/a), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3377](/us/stat/118/3377), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter, amending section 460*l*–6a of this title, repealing sections 3911, 5982, and 5991 to 5995 of this title, and repealing provisions set out as a note under 460*l*–6a of this title] may be cited as the ‘Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act’.”
