---
title: "§ 3581. Presumption of accessibility for statistical agencies and units"
identifier: "USC-T44-S3581"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section3581"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–435, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/115/435/tIII/s303/a), Jan. 14, 2019, [132 Stat. 5554](/us/stat/132/5554).)"
---
# § 3581. Presumption of accessibility for statistical agencies and units

##### § 3581. Presumption of accessibility for statistical agencies and units

(a) Accessibility of Data Assets.— The head of an agency shall, to the extent practicable, make any data asset maintained by the agency available, upon request, to any statistical agency or unit for purposes of developing evidence.

(b) Limitations.— Subsection (a) does not apply to any data asset that is subject to a statute that—

(1) prohibits the sharing or intended use of such asset in a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue; or

(2) if enacted after the date of the enactment of this section, specifically cites to this paragraph.

(c) Regulations.— The Director shall prescribe regulations for agencies to carry out this section. Such regulations shall—

(1) require the timely provision of data assets under subsection (a);

(2) provide a list of statutes that exempt agencies from the requirement under subsection (a) pursuant to subsection (b)(1);

(3) establish clear and consistent standards, to the extent possible, for complying with [section 552a of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a) (commonly known as the “Privacy Act of 1974”) and any other applicable law requiring the protection and confidentiality of individually identifiable information; and

(4) require a transparent process for statistical agencies and units to request data assets from agencies and for agencies to respond to such requests.

(d) Rule of Construction.— Nothing in this section may be construed as altering existing intellectual property rights or the terms of any contract or other binding, written agreement.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–435, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/115/435/tIII/s303/a), Jan. 14, 2019, [132 Stat. 5554](/us/stat/132/5554).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–435](/us/pl/115/435), which was approved Jan. 14, 2019.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Jan. 14, 2019, see [section 403 of Pub. L. 115–435](/us/pl/115/435/s403), set out as an Effective Date of 2019 Amendment note under [section 306 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s306), Government Organization and Employees.
