---
title: "§ 122. Shipments into States for possession or sale in violation of State law"
identifier: "USC-T27-S122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title27-section122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "27"
source_credit: "([Aug. 27, 1935, ch. 740, § 202(b)](/us/act/1935-08-27/ch740/s202/b), [49 Stat. 877](/us/stat/49/877).)"
---
# § 122. Shipments into States for possession or sale in violation of State law

##### § 122. Shipments into States for possession or sale in violation of State law

The shipment or transportation, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of any spirituous, vinous, malted, fermented, or other intoxicating liquor of any kind, from one State, Territory, or District of the United States, or place noncontiguous to but subject to the jurisdiction thereof, into any other State, Territory, or District of the United States, or place noncontiguous to but subject to the jurisdiction thereof, or from any foreign country into any State, Territory, or District of the United States, or place noncontiguous to but subject to the jurisdiction thereof, which said spirituous, vinous, malted, fermented, or other intoxicating liquor is intended, by any person interested therein, to be received, possessed, sold, or in any manner used, either in the original package or otherwise, in violation of any law of such State, Territory, or District of the United States, or place noncontiguous to but subject to the jurisdiction thereof, is prohibited.

*([Aug. 27, 1935, ch. 740, § 202(b)](/us/act/1935-08-27/ch740/s202/b), [49 Stat. 877](/us/stat/49/877).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in the [act of Mar. 1, 1913, ch. 90, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-01/ch90/s1), [37 Stat. 699](/us/stat/37/699).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

Act Mar. 1, 1913, is popularly known as the “Webb-Kenyon Act”.
