---
title: "§ 20106. Compensation to victims of international terrorism"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1404C](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1404C), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. C, § 2003(c)(1)](/us/pl/106/386/dC/s2003/c/1), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1544](/us/stat/114/1544); amended [Pub. L. 107–56, title VI, § 624(c)](/us/pl/107/56/tVI/s624/c), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 373](/us/stat/115/373); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title X, § 1083(b)(4)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tX/s1083/b/4), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 342](/us/stat/122/342).)"
---
# § 20106. Compensation to victims of international terrorism

##### § 20106. Compensation to victims of international terrorism

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) International terrorism The term “international terrorism” has the meaning given the term in [section 2331 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2331).

(2) National of the United States The term “national of the United States” has the meaning given the term in [section 1101(a) of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1101/a).

(3) Victim

(A) In general The term “victim” means a person who—

(i) suffered direct physical or emotional injury or death as a result of international terrorism occurring on or after October 23, 1983, with respect to which an investigation or civil or criminal prosecution was ongoing after April 24, 1996; and

(ii) as of the date on which the international terrorism occurred, was a national of the United States or an officer or employee of the United States Government.

(B) Incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased victims In the case of a victim who is less than 18 years of age, incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased, a family member or legal guardian of the victim may receive the compensation under this section on behalf of the victim.

(C) Exception Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in no event shall an individual who is criminally culpable for the terrorist act or mass violence receive any compensation under this section, either directly or on behalf of a victim.

(b) Award of compensation The Director may use the emergency reserve referred to in [section 20101(d)(5)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20101/d/5/A) to carry out a program to compensate victims of acts of international terrorism that occur outside the United States for expenses associated with that victimization. The amount of compensation awarded to a victim under this subsection shall be reduced by any amount that the victim received in connection with the same act of international terrorism under title VIII of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986.

(c) Annual report The Director shall annually submit to Congress a report on the status and activities of the program under this section, which report shall include—

(1) an explanation of the procedures for filing and processing of applications for compensation;

(2) a description of the procedures and policies instituted to promote public awareness about the program;

(3) a complete statistical analysis of the victims assisted under the program, including—

(A) the number of applications for compensation submitted;

(B) the number of applications approved and the amount of each award;

(C) the number of applications denied and the reasons for the denial;

(D) the average length of time to process an application for compensation; and

(E) the number of applications for compensation pending and the estimated future liability of the program; and

(4) an analysis of future program needs and suggested program improvements.

*([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1404C](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1404C), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. C, § 2003(c)(1)](/us/pl/106/386/dC/s2003/c/1), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1544](/us/stat/114/1544); amended [Pub. L. 107–56, title VI, § 624(c)](/us/pl/107/56/tVI/s624/c), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 373](/us/stat/115/373); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title X, § 1083(b)(4)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tX/s1083/b/4), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 342](/us/stat/122/342).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 99–399](/us/pl/99/399), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 853](/us/stat/100/853). Title VIII of the Act, known as the “Victims of Terrorism Compensation Act”, enacted sections 5569 and 5570 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, sections 1051, 1095, and 2181 to 2185 of Title 10, Armed Forces, and sections 559 and 1013 of Title 37, Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services, amended [section 6325 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s6325), and enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 5569 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5569), sections 1051, 1095, and 2181 of Title 10, and [section 559 of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s559). For complete classification of title VIII to the Code, see Short Title of 1986 Amendment note set out under [section 5569 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5569) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 10603c of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10603c), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a)(3)(A)(i). [Pub. L. 110–181](/us/pl/110/181) substituted “October 23, 1983, with respect to which an investigation or civil or criminal” for “December 21, 1988 with respect to which an investigation or”.

2001—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–56](/us/pl/107/56) inserted at end “The amount of compensation awarded to a victim under this subsection shall be reduced by any amount that the victim received in connection with the same act of international terrorism under title VIII of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

For applicability of amendments by [Pub. L. 110–181](/us/pl/110/181) to pending cases, see [section 1083(c) of Pub. L. 110–181](/us/pl/110/181/s1083/c), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1605A of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1605A), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
