---
title: "§ 3415. Office of Postsecondary Education"
identifier: "USC-T20-S3415"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section3415"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–88, title II, § 205](/us/pl/96/88/tII/s205), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 674](/us/stat/93/674); [Pub. L. 110–315, title IX, § 935](/us/pl/110/315/tIX/s935), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3460](/us/stat/122/3460).)"
---
# § 3415. Office of Postsecondary Education

##### § 3415. Office of Postsecondary Education

(a) There shall be in the Department an Office of Postsecondary Education, to be administered by the Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education appointed under [section 3412(b) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3412/b). The Assistant Secretary shall administer such functions affecting postsecondary education, both public and private, as the Secretary shall delegate, and shall serve as the principal adviser to the Secretary on matters affecting postsecondary education.

(b) The Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education shall appoint a Deputy Assistant Secretary for International and Foreign Language Education to perform such functions affecting postsecondary, international, and foreign language education as the Secretary may prescribe. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for International and Foreign Language Education shall—

(1) be an individual with extensive background and experience in international and foreign language education;

(2) have responsibility for encouraging and promoting the study of foreign languages and the study of the cultures of other countries at the elementary, secondary, and postsecondary levels in the United States; and

(3) coordinate with related international and foreign language education programs of other Federal agencies.

*([Pub. L. 96–88, title II, § 205](/us/pl/96/88/tII/s205), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 674](/us/stat/93/674); [Pub. L. 110–315, title IX, § 935](/us/pl/110/315/tIX/s935), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3460](/us/stat/122/3460).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2008—[Pub. L. 110–315](/us/pl/110/315) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “There shall be in the Department an Office of Postsecondary Education, to be administered by the Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education appointed under [section 3412(b) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3412/b). The Assistant Secretary shall administer such functions affecting postsecondary education, both public and private, as the Secretary shall delegate, and shall serve as the principal adviser to the Secretary on matters affecting public and private postsecondary education.”
