---
title: "§ 212. Refusal or neglect of employees to perform duties"
identifier: "USC-T13-S212"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title13-section212"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "13"
source_credit: "([Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1158](/us/act/1954-08-31/ch1158), [68 Stat. 1022](/us/stat/68/1022).)"
---
# § 212. Refusal or neglect of employees to perform duties

##### § 212. Refusal or neglect of employees to perform duties

Whoever, being an employee referred to in subchapter II of chapter 1 of this title, and having taken and subscribed the oath of office, neglects or refuses, without justifiable cause, to perform the duties enjoined on such employee by this title, shall be fined not more than $500.

*([Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1158](/us/act/1954-08-31/ch1158), [68 Stat. 1022](/us/stat/68/1022).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 13, U.S.C., 1952 ed., §§ 122, 208, 252, and [section 1442 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1442), U.S.C., 1952 ed., The Public Health and Welfare ([June 18, 1929, ch. 28, § 8](/us/act/1929-06-18/ch28/s8), [46 Stat. 23](/us/stat/46/23); [June 19, 1948, ch. 502, § 2](/us/act/1948-06-19/ch502/s2), [62 Stat. 479](/us/stat/62/479); [June 19, 1949, ch. 338](/us/act/1949-06-19/ch338), title VI, § 607, [63 Stat. 441](/us/stat/63/441); [Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 910, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch910/s2), [64 Stat. 784](/us/stat/64/784)).

Section consolidates part of [section 208 of title 13](/us/usc/t13/s208), U.S.C., 1952 ed., which was a part of chapter 4 of such title relating to the censuses of population, agriculture, etc., with those parts of sections 122 and 252 of such title which made such section 208 applicable to the censuses of manufacturers, the mineral industries and other businesses, and governments, and with that part of subsection (b) of [section 1442 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1442), U.S.C., 1952 ed., which made such section 208 applicable to the housing censuses. For remainder of sections 122, 208 and 252 of title 13, U.S.C., 1952 ed., and of [section 1442 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1442), U.S.C., 1952 ed., (which section has been transferred in its entirety to this revised title), see Distribution Table.

Section has been made applicable to all employees referred to in subchapter II of chapter 1 of this title, and to duties enjoined on them by any provision of this title, which was probably the original legislative intent.

The words “being an employee referred to in subchapter II of chapter 1 of this title” were substituted for the enumeration in [section 208 of title 13](/us/usc/t13/s208), U.S.C., 1952 ed., of “supervisor, supervisor’s clerk, enumerator, interpreter, special agent, or other employee”, since such reference will cover those employees.

Reference in [section 208 of title 13](/us/usc/t13/s208), U.S.C., 1952 ed., to the offense, herein described as a misdemeanor, and words therein “, and upon conviction thereof”, were omitted, the former, as superseded and covered by [section 1 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1), U.S.C., 1952 ed., Crimes and Criminal Procedure, classifying offenses, and the latter, as surplusage.

Changes were made in phraseology.
