---
title: "§ 201. Short title"
identifier: "USC-T27-S201"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title27-section201"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "27"
source_credit: "([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title I, § 101, formerly § 1, [49 Stat. 977](/us/stat/49/977); renumbered title I, § 101, and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/1), (2), (b)(1), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4517](/us/stat/102/4517), 4521.)"
---
# § 201. Short title

##### § 201. Short title

This subchapter may be cited as the “Federal Alcohol Administration Act”.

*([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title I, § 101, formerly § 1, [49 Stat. 977](/us/stat/49/977); renumbered title I, § 101, and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/1), (2), (b)(1), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4517](/us/stat/102/4517), 4521.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–690, § 8001(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/s8001/b/1), amended section generally, substituting “subchapter” for “chapter”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

Act Aug. 29, 1935, title II, § 201, as added Nov. 18, 1988, [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(3)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/3), [102 Stat. 4518](/us/stat/102/4518), provided that: “This title [enacting subchapter II of this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act of 1988’.”

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, including the related functions of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the Department of Justice, see [section 531(c) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s531/c), Domestic Security, and [section 599A(c)(1) of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s599A/c/1), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Federal Alcohol Administration and offices of members and Administrator thereof were abolished and their functions directed to be administered under direction and supervision of Secretary of Treasury through Bureau of Internal Revenue [now Internal Revenue Service] in Department of Treasury, by Reorg. Plan No. III of 1940, § 2, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2107, [54 Stat. 1232](/us/stat/54/1232), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. See also, sections 8 and 9 of said plan for provisions relating to transfer of records, property, personnel, and funds. Section 2 of Reorg. Plan No. III of 1940 was repealed as executed by [Pub. L. 97–258, § 5(b)](/us/pl/97/258/s5/b), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1068](/us/stat/96/1068), 1085, the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance. Department of the Treasury Order 221 of July 1, 1972, established the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and transferred to it functions of the Internal Revenue Service arising under certain laws relating to alcohol, tobacco, firearms, and explosives.
