---
title: "§ 1755a. Whole grain products"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1755a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1755a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–234, title IV, § 4305](/us/pl/110/234/tIV/s4305), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1131](/us/stat/122/1131); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title IV, § 4305, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 1892.)"
---
# § 1755a. Whole grain products

##### § 1755a. Whole grain products

(a) Purpose The purpose of this section is to encourage greater awareness and interest in the number and variety of whole grain products available to schoolchildren, as recommended by the 2005 Dietary Guidelines for Americans.

(b) Definition of eligible whole grains and whole grain products In this section, the terms “whole grains” and “whole grain products” have the meaning given the terms by the Food and Nutrition Service in the HealthierUS School Challenge.

(c) Purchase of whole grains and whole grain products In addition to the commodities delivered under section 6 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ([42 U.S.C. 1755](/us/usc/t42/s1755)), the Secretary shall purchase whole grains and whole grain products for use in—

(1) the school lunch program established under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ([42 U.S.C. 1751](/us/usc/t42/s1751) et seq.); and

(2) the school breakfast program established by [section 1773 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1773).

(d) Evaluation Not later than September 30, 2011, the Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of the activities conducted under subsection (c) that includes—

(1) an evaluation of whether children participating in the school lunch and breakfast programs increased their consumption of whole grains;

(2) an evaluation of which whole grains and whole grain products are most acceptable for use in the school lunch and breakfast programs;

(3) any recommendations of the Secretary regarding the integration of whole grain products in the school lunch and breakfast programs; and

(4) an evaluation of any other outcomes determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.

(e) Report As soon as practicable after the completion of the evaluation under subsection (d), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representative 11 So in original. Probably should be “Representatives”. a report describing the results of the evaluation.

*([Pub. L. 110–234, title IV, § 4305](/us/pl/110/234/tIV/s4305), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1131](/us/stat/122/1131); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title IV, § 4305, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 1892.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is [act June 4, 1946, ch. 281](/us/act/1946-06-04/ch281), [60 Stat. 230](/us/stat/60/230), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1751 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1751) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

Section was enacted as part of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, and not as part of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234), except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4), set out as a note under [section 8701 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8701), Agriculture.

Section effective Oct. 1, 2008, see [section 4407 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4407), set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under [section 1161 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1161), The Congress.

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture, see [section 8701 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8701), Agriculture.
