---
title: "§ 233. Operation and maintenance budget presentation"
identifier: "USC-T10-S233"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section233"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title X, § 1003(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tX/s1003/a/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2035](/us/stat/118/2035).)"
---
# § 233. Operation and maintenance budget presentation

##### § 233. Operation and maintenance budget presentation

(a) Identification of Baseline Amounts in O&M Justification Documents.— In any case in which the amount requested in the President’s budget for a fiscal year for a Department of Defense operation and maintenance program, project, or activity is different from the amount appropriated for that program, project, or activity for the current year, the O&M justification documents supporting that budget shall identify that appropriated amount and the difference between that amount and the amount requested in the budget, stated as an amount and as a percentage.

(b) Navy for Ship Depot Maintenance and for Intermediate Ship Maintenance.— In the O&M justification documents for the Navy for any fiscal year, amounts requested for ship depot maintenance and amounts requested for intermediate ship maintenance shall be identified and distinguished.

(c) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “O&M justification documents” means Department of Defense budget justification documents with respect to accounts for operation and maintenance submitted to the congressional defense committees in support of the Department of Defense component of the President’s budget for any fiscal year.

(2) The term “President’s budget” means the budget of the President submitted to Congress under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105) for any fiscal year.

(3) The term “current year” means the fiscal year during which the President’s budget is submitted in any year.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title X, § 1003(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tX/s1003/a/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2035](/us/stat/118/2035).)*
