---
title: "§ 242. Condemnation of land; acceptance of donations"
identifier: "USC-T16-S242"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section242"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Apr. 25, 1947, ch. 41, § 2](/us/act/1947-04-25/ch41/s2), [61 Stat. 53](/us/stat/61/53); [Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 610](/us/pl/95/625/tVI/s610), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3521](/us/stat/92/3521).)"
---
# § 242. Condemnation of land; acceptance of donations

##### § 242. Condemnation of land; acceptance of donations

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to cause condemnation proceedings to be instituted in the name of the United States under the provisions of [section 3113 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s3113), to acquire title to the lands, interests therein, or rights pertaining thereto that are privately owned within the boundaries of the said national park, and such property, when acquired, shall become a part thereof: *Provided*, That when the owner of such lands, interests therein, or rights pertaining thereto shall fix a price for the same, which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior, shall be reasonable, the Secretary may purchase the same without further delay: *Provided further*, That the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to accept, on behalf of the United States, donations of land, interests therein, or rights pertaining thereto required for the Theodore Roosevelt National Park: *And provided further*, That title and evidence of title to land and interests therein acquired for said park shall be satisfactory to the Attorney General.

*([Apr. 25, 1947, ch. 41, § 2](/us/act/1947-04-25/ch41/s2), [61 Stat. 53](/us/stat/61/53); [Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 610](/us/pl/95/625/tVI/s610), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3521](/us/stat/92/3521).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

“[Section 3113 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s3113)” substituted in text for “the Act of August 1, 1888, entitled ‘An Act to authorize the condemnation of lands for sites for public buildings, and other purposes’ ([25 Stat. 357](/us/stat/25/357))” on authority of [Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c)](/us/pl/107/217/s5/c), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/116/1303), the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Theodore Roosevelt National Memorial Park redesignated Theodore Roosevelt National Park pursuant to [Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 610](/us/pl/95/625/tVI/s610), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3521](/us/stat/92/3521), which is classified to [section 241g of this title](/us/usc/t16/s241g).
