---
title: "§ 12784. Research in housing affordability"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12784"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12784"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 244](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s244), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4118](/us/stat/104/4118); [Pub. L. 102–550, title II, § 215](/us/pl/102/550/tII/s215), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3759](/us/stat/106/3759).)"
---
# § 12784. Research in housing affordability

##### § 12784. Research in housing affordability

The Secretary is authorized to support, through contracts with eligible organizations and otherwise, such research and to publish such reports as will assist in the achievement of the purposes of this subchapter. Activities authorized by the previous sentence may include an ongoing analysis of the impact of public policies at the Federal, State, and local levels, both individually and in the aggregate, on the incentives to expand and maintain the supply of energy-efficient affordable housing in the United States, particularly in areas with severe problems of housing affordability, through the use of cost-saving innovative building technology and construction techniques. For purposes of this section, agencies of the United States, government-sponsored mortgage finance corporations, and qualified research organizations shall be included as eligible organizations in addition to eligible organizations specified under [section 12783 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12783).

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 244](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s244), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4118](/us/stat/104/4118); [Pub. L. 102–550, title II, § 215](/us/pl/102/550/tII/s215), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3759](/us/stat/106/3759).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) inserted before period at end of second sentence “, through the use of cost-saving innovative building technology and construction techniques”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) applicable to unexpended funds allocated under subchapter II of this chapter in fiscal year 1992, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 223 of Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550/s223), set out as a note under [section 12704 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12704).
