---
title: "§ 1711. Limitation of actions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1711"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1711"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–448, title XIV, § 1412](/us/pl/90/448/tXIV/s1412), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 596](/us/stat/82/596); [Pub. L. 96–153, title IV, § 406](/us/pl/96/153/tIV/s406), Dec. 21, 1979, [93 Stat. 1131](/us/stat/93/1131).)"
---
# § 1711. Limitation of actions

##### § 1711. Limitation of actions

(a) Section 1703(a) violations No action shall be maintained under [section 1709 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1709) with respect to—

(1) a violation of subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2)(D) of [section 1703 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1703) more than three years after the date of signing of the contract of sale or lease; or

(2) a violation of subsection (a)(2)(A), (a)(2)(B), or (a)(2)(C) of [section 1703 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1703) more than three years after discovery of the violation or after discovery should have been made by the exercise of reasonable diligence.

(b) Section 1703(b) to (e) violations No action shall be maintained under [section 1709 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1709) to enforce a right created under subsection (b), (c), (d), or (e) of [section 1703 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1703) unless brought within three years after the signing of the contract or lease, notwithstanding delivery of a deed to a purchaser.

*([Pub. L. 90–448, title XIV, § 1412](/us/pl/90/448/tXIV/s1412), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 596](/us/stat/82/596); [Pub. L. 96–153, title IV, § 406](/us/pl/96/153/tIV/s406), Dec. 21, 1979, [93 Stat. 1131](/us/stat/93/1131).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1979—[Pub. L. 96–153](/us/pl/96/153) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), substituted provisions setting forth limitations relating to any action maintained under [section 1709 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1709), for provisions setting forth limitations relating to any action maintained to enforce any liability created under section 1709(a) or (b)(2) of this title, and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–153](/us/pl/96/153) effective on effective date of regulations implementing such amendment, but in no case later than six months following Dec. 21, 1979, see [section 410 of Pub. L. 96–153](/us/pl/96/153/s410), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1701).

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon the expiration of two hundred and seventy days after Aug. 1, 1968, see [section 1423 of Pub. L. 90–448](/us/pl/90/448/s1423), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1701).
