---
title: "§ 1963. Registration of judgments for enforcement in other districts"
identifier: "USC-T28-S1963"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section1963"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 958](/us/stat/62/958); [Aug. 23, 1954, ch. 837](/us/act/1954-08-23/ch837), [68 Stat. 772](/us/stat/68/772); [Pub. L. 85–508, § 12](/us/pl/85/508/s12)(*o*), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 349](/us/stat/72/349); [Pub. L. 100–702, title X, § 1002(a)](/us/pl/100/702/tX/s1002/a), (b)(1), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4664](/us/stat/102/4664); [Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXVI, § 3628](/us/pl/101/647/tXXXVI/s3628), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4965](/us/sta"
---
# § 1963. Registration of judgments for enforcement in other districts

##### § 1963. Registration of judgments for enforcement in other districts

A judgment in an action for the recovery of money or property entered in any court of appeals, district court, bankruptcy court, or in the Court of International Trade may be registered by filing a certified copy of the judgment in any other district or, with respect to the Court of International Trade, in any judicial district, when the judgment has become final by appeal or expiration of the time for appeal or when ordered by the court that entered the judgment for good cause shown. Such a judgment entered in favor of the United States may be so registered any time after judgment is entered. A judgment so registered shall have the same effect as a judgment of the district court of the district where registered and may be enforced in like manner.

A certified copy of the satisfaction of any judgment in whole or in part may be registered in like manner in any district in which the judgment is a lien.

The procedure prescribed under this section is in addition to other procedures provided by law for the enforcement of judgments.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 958](/us/stat/62/958); [Aug. 23, 1954, ch. 837](/us/act/1954-08-23/ch837), [68 Stat. 772](/us/stat/68/772); [Pub. L. 85–508, § 12](/us/pl/85/508/s12)(*o*), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 349](/us/stat/72/349); [Pub. L. 100–702, title X, § 1002(a)](/us/pl/100/702/tX/s1002/a), (b)(1), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4664](/us/stat/102/4664); [Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXVI, § 3628](/us/pl/101/647/tXXXVI/s3628), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4965](/us/stat/104/4965); [Pub. L. 104–317, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/104/317/tII/s203/a), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3849](/us/stat/110/3849).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section follows the recommendation of the Supreme Court’s Advisory Committee on Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (1937) which included the following rule:

“Rule 77. Registration of judgments in other district courts. A judgment entered in any district court and which has become final through expiration of the time for appeal or by mandate on appeal may be registered in any other district court by filing therein an authenticated copy of the judgment. When so registered the judgment shall have the same effect and like proceedings for its enforcement may be taken thereon in the court in which it is registered as if the judgment had been originally entered by that court. If in the court in which the judgment was originally entered, the judgment has been satisfied in whole or in part or if an order has been made modifying or vacating it or affecting or suspending its operation, the party procuring the registration shall and any other party may file authenticated copies of the satisfaction or order with the court in which the judgment is registered. This rule shall not be construed to limit the effect of the Act of February 20, 1905, c. 592, § 20 ([33 Stat. 729](/us/stat/33/729)), as amended, U.S.C., title 15, § 100; or the Act of March 4, 1909, c. 320, §§ 36 and 37 ([35 Stat. 1084](/us/stat/35/1084)), U.S.C., title 17, §§ 36 and 37; or § 56 of the Judicial Code, U.S.C., title 28, § 117; or to authorize the registration elsewhere of an order or a judgment rendered in a divorce action in the District of Columbia.”

[Section 2508 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s2508) provides for the registration of judgments of the Court of Claims in favor of the United States in any district. See, also, [section 2413 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s2413).

The phrase “for the recovery of money or property” was not in the committee’s draft of Rule 77 of Federal Rules of Civil Procedure but was inserted in the revised section to exclude judgments in divorce actions, and any other actions, the registration of which would serve no useful purpose.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–317](/us/pl/104/317) in section catchline substituted “for enforcement in other districts” for “of the district courts and the Court of International Trade”, in first undesignated par. substituted “court of appeals, district court, bankruptcy court,” for “district court” and “copy of the judgment” for “copy of such judgment”, and added undesignated par. at end.

1990—[Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647) inserted after first sentence “Such a judgment entered in favor of the United States may be so registered any time after judgment is entered.”

1988—[Pub. L. 100–702](/us/pl/100/702) substituted “Registration of judgments of the district courts and the Court of International Trade” for “Registration in other districts” in section catchline and amended first sentence generally. Prior to amendment, first sentence read as follows: “A judgment in an action for the recovery of money or property now or hereafter entered in any district court which has become final by appeal or expiration of time for appeal may be registered in any other district by filing therein a certified copy of such judgment.”

1958—[Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508) struck out provisions which extended provisions of section to District Court for Territory of Alaska. See [section 81A of this title](/us/usc/t28/s81A) which establishes a United States District Court for the State of Alaska.

1954—Act Aug. 23, 1954, extended provisions of section to District Court for Territory of Alaska.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647) effective 180 days after Nov. 29, 1990, see [section 3631 of Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647/s3631), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s3001).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

[Pub. L. 100–702, title X, § 1002(c)](/us/pl/100/702/tX/s1002/c), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4665](/us/stat/102/4665), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and repealing [section 1963A of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1963A)] take effect 90 days after the date of enactment of this title [Nov. 19, 1988].”

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508) effective Jan. 3, 1959, on admission of Alaska into the Union pursuant to Proc. No. 3269, Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16, as required by sections 1 and 8(c) of [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508), see notes set out under [section 81A of this title](/us/usc/t28/s81A) and preceding [section 21 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s21), Territories and Insular Possessions.
