---
title: "§ 1545. Cooperation with travel agencies; publication of information"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1545"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1545"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([July 19, 1940, ch. 642, § 2](/us/act/1940-07-19/ch642/s2), [54 Stat. 773](/us/stat/54/773).)"
---
# § 1545. Cooperation with travel agencies; publication of information

##### § 1545. Cooperation with travel agencies; publication of information

In carrying out the purposes of sections 1544 to 1548 of this title, the Secretary is authorized to cooperate with public and private tourist, travel, and other agencies in the display of exhibits, and in the collection, publication, and dissemination of information with respect to places of interest, routes, transportation facilities, accommodations, and such other matters as he deems advisable and advantageous for the purpose of encouraging, promoting, or developing such travel. Nothing in said sections shall prohibit the preparation of graphic materials in foreign languages, designed to call attention to the attractions and places of interest in the United States and to encourage the use of American registered ships and planes. The existing facilities of the United States Government in foreign countries are authorized to assist in the distribution of this material. The Secretary may enter into contracts with private publishers for such printing and binding as he may deem advisable in carrying out the purposes of said sections. The Secretary is also authorized to make charges for any publications made available to the public pursuant to said sections; and any proceeds from the sale of publications produced by the expenditure of contributed funds shall continue to be available for printing and binding as aforesaid.

*([July 19, 1940, ch. 642, § 2](/us/act/1940-07-19/ch642/s2), [54 Stat. 773](/us/stat/54/773).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 18a of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s18a), Conservation.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of Secretary of the Interior to Secretary of Commerce, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 1544 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1544).
