---
title: "§ 283z–6. Investment in human capital"
identifier: "USC-T22-S283z–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section283z–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–147, § 34](/us/pl/86/147/s34), as added [Pub. L. 101–240, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/101/240/tII/s202/a), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/103/2498).)"
---
# § 283z–6. Investment in human capital

##### § 283z–6. Investment in human capital

(a) In general The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank to propose and use the voice and vote of such director, during the 4-year period beginning on January 1, 1990, to vigorously promote an increase in the proportion of Bank lending in support of projects and programs which support investments in human capital and to seek the rapid implementation by the Bank of systematic mechanisms of consultation with locally affected populations in borrower countries either directly or through appropriate representative non-governmental organizations.

(b) “Investments in human capital” defined As used in subsection (a), the term “investments in human capital” means investments in projects, policies, and programs designed to improve urban and rural health care and sanitation, basic nutrition, education, the small-producer private sector, the economic activities of women, and the development of indigenous non-governmental organizations.

*([Pub. L. 86–147, § 34](/us/pl/86/147/s34), as added [Pub. L. 101–240, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/101/240/tII/s202/a), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/103/2498).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Report to Congress

[Pub. L. 101–240, title II, § 202(b)](/us/pl/101/240/tII/s202/b), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/103/2498), provided that the Chairman of the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies would include in the report required by [section 262r of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262r) for fiscal year 1991 a report on the efforts undertaken by the United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank in achieving the objectives of this section.
