---
title: "§ 3501. Transfer and allocation of appropriations and personnel"
identifier: "USC-T20-S3501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section3501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 501](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s501), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 689](/us/stat/93/689).)"
---
# § 3501. Transfer and allocation of appropriations and personnel

##### § 3501. Transfer and allocation of appropriations and personnel

(a) Personnel and appropriations in connection with functions and offices transferred by this chapter; use of unexpended funds Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the personnel employed in connection with, and the assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balance of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the functions and offices, or portions thereof transferred by this chapter, subject to [section 1531 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1531), shall be transferred to the Secretary for appropriate allocation. Unexpended funds transferred pursuant to this subsection shall be used only for the purposes for which the funds were originally authorized and appropriated.

(b) Positions specified to carry out functions or offices transferred by this chapter Positions expressly specified by statute or reorganization plan to carry out functions or offices transferred by this chapter, personnel occupying those positions on the effective date of this chapter, and personnel authorized to receive compensation in such positions at the rate prescribed for offices and positions at level IV or V of the Executive Schedule ([5 U.S.C. 5315–531](/us/usc/t5/s5315–531)6) on May 4, 1980, shall be subject to the provisions of [section 3503 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3503).

*([Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 501](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s501), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 689](/us/stat/93/689).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In subsec. (a), “[section 1531 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1531)” substituted for “section 202 of the Budget and Accounting Procedures Act of 1950 [[31 U.S.C. 581c](/us/usc/t31/s581c)]” on authority of [Pub. L. 97–258, § 4(b)](/us/pl/97/258/s4/b), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1067](/us/stat/96/1067), the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.

In subsec. (b), “May 4, 1980” substituted for “the effective date of this chapter” pursuant to [section 601 of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s601), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3401 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3401).
