---
title: "§ 247b–9. Diabetes in children and youth"
identifier: "USC-T42-S247b–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section247b–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 317H, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tIV/s401), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1112](/us/stat/114/1112).)"
---
# § 247b–9. Diabetes in children and youth

##### § 247b–9. Diabetes in children and youth

(a) Surveillance on juvenile diabetes The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall develop a sentinel system to collect data on juvenile diabetes, including with respect to incidence and prevalence, and shall establish a national database for such data.

(b) Type 2 diabetes in youth The Secretary shall implement a national public health effort to address type 2 diabetes in youth, including—

(1) enhancing surveillance systems and expanding research to better assess the prevalence and incidence of type 2 diabetes in youth and determine the extent to which type 2 diabetes is incorrectly diagnosed as type 1 diabetes among children; and

(2) developing and improving laboratory methods to assist in diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of diabetes including, but not limited to, developing noninvasive ways to monitor blood glucose to prevent hypoglycemia and improving existing glucometers that measure blood glucose.

(c) Authorization of appropriations For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 317H, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tIV/s401), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1112](/us/stat/114/1112).)*
