---
title: "§ 277d–18. Construction, operation, and maintenance of works; Bridge of the Americas"
identifier: "USC-T22-S277d–18"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section277d–18"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–300, § 2](/us/pl/88/300/s2), Apr. 29, 1964, [78 Stat. 184](/us/stat/78/184); [Pub. L. 103–236, title IV, § 423(a)](/us/pl/103/236/tIV/s423/a), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 457](/us/stat/108/457); [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 703]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s703), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–460.)"
---
# § 277d–18. Construction, operation, and maintenance of works; Bridge of the Americas

##### § 277d–18. Construction, operation, and maintenance of works; Bridge of the Americas

(a) In general The United States Commissioner is authorized to construct, operate, and maintain all works provided for in said convention and sections 277d–17 to 277d–25 of this title, and to turn over the operation and maintenance of any such works to any Federal agency, or any State, county, municipality, district, or other political subdivision within which such project or works may be in whole or in part situated, upon such terms, conditions, and requirements as the Commissioner may deem appropriate.

(b) Bridge of the Americas The United States Commissioner is authorized to receive payments of money from public or private sources in the United States or Mexico made for the purpose of sharing in the cost of operations, maintenance, and replacement of the Bridge of the Americas which crosses the Rio Grande between El Paso, Texas, and Cd. Juarez, Chihuahua. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, such payments of money shall be credited to any appropriation to the Commission which is currently available. Funds received under this subsection shall be available only for the replacement of such bridge.

(c) Advance appropriations The authority of subsection (b) may be exercised only to the extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts.

*([Pub. L. 88–300, § 2](/us/pl/88/300/s2), Apr. 29, 1964, [78 Stat. 184](/us/stat/78/184); [Pub. L. 103–236, title IV, § 423(a)](/us/pl/103/236/tIV/s423/a), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 457](/us/stat/108/457); [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 703]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s703), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–460.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1999—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113) inserted “operations, maintenance, and” after “cost of”.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsecs. (b) and (c).
