---
title: "§ 6102. Exceptions from advertising requirement"
identifier: "USC-T41-S6102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section6102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "41"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3802](/us/stat/124/3802); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. I, title I, § 102](/us/pl/115/141/dI/tI/s102), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 772](/us/stat/132/772); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title I, § 142(b)](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tI/s142/b), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 519](/us/stat/136/519).)"
---
# § 6102. Exceptions from advertising requirement

##### § 6102. Exceptions from advertising requirement

(a) American Battle Monuments Commission.— [Section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101) does not apply to the American Battle Monuments Commission with respect to leases in foreign countries for office or garage space.

(b) Bureau of Interparliamentary Union for Promotion of International Arbitration.— [Section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101) does not apply to the Bureau of Interparliamentary Union for Promotion of International Arbitration with respect to necessary stenographic reporting services by contract.

(c) Department of State.— [Section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101) does not apply to the Department of State when the purchase or service relates to the packing of personal and household effects of Diplomatic, Consular, and Foreign Service officers and clerks for foreign shipment.

(d) International Committee of Aerial Legal Experts.— [Section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101) does not apply to the International Committee of Aerial Legal Experts with respect to necessary stenographic and other services by contract.

(e) Architect of the Capitol.— The purchase of supplies and equipment and the procurement of services for all branches under the Architect of the Capitol may be made in the open market according to common business practice, without compliance with [section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101), when the aggregate amount of the purchase or the service does not exceed $25,000 in any instance.

(f) Forest Products From Indian Reservations.— Lumber and other forest products produced by Indian enterprises from forests on Indian reservations may be sold under regulations the Secretary of the Interior prescribes, without compliance with [section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101).

(g) House of Representatives.— [Section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101) does not apply to purchases and contracts for supplies or services for any office of the House of Representatives.

(h) Congressional Budget Office.— The Director of the Congressional Budget Office may enter into agreements or contracts without regard to [section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101).

(i) Senate.— [Section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101) does not apply to agreements, contracts or purchases by any office of the Senate.

(j) Librarian of Congress.— [Section 6101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6101) does not apply to a procurement made against an order placed under a task order contract or a delivery order contract (as such terms are defined in [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s4101)) entered into by the Librarian of Congress.

*([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3802](/us/stat/124/3802); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. I, title I, § 102](/us/pl/115/141/dI/tI/s102), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 772](/us/stat/132/772); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title I, § 142(b)](/us/pl/117/103/dI/tI/s142/b), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 519](/us/stat/136/519).)*

In subsections (a)–(d), the words “under any appropriation Act” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (e), the words “On and after July 27, 1965” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “according to common business practice” are substituted for “in the manner common among businessmen” for consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (g), the words “in any fiscal year” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (h), the text of 41:6a–4(b) is omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6102(a) | 41:6a(a). | Oct. 10, 1940, ch. 851, § 2(a), 54 Stat. 1110; Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 654, § 3(8), 65 Stat. 708. |
| 6102(b) | 41:6a(f). | Oct. 10, 1940, ch. 851, § 2(f), (j), 54 Stat. 1110. |
| 6102(c) | 41:6a(h). | Oct. 10, 1940, ch. 851, § 2(h), 54 Stat. 1110; Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 654, § 3(9), 65 Stat. 708. |
| 6102(d) | 41:6a(j). |  |
| 6102(e) | 41:6a–1. | Pub. L. 89–90, (2d par. on p. 276), July 27, 1965, 79 Stat. 276; Pub. L. 93–356, § 2, July 25, 1974, 88 Stat. 390; Pub. L. 98–191, § 9(c), Dec. 1, 1983, 97 Stat. 1332. |
| 6102(f) | 41:6b(d). | June 24, 1940, ch. 412, 54 Stat. 504. |
| 6102(g) | 41:6a–3. | Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, §§ 104, 1102, Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 354, 370. |
| 6102(h) | 41:6a–4. |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (j). [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) added subsec. (j).

2018—Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 115–141](/us/pl/115/141) added subsec. (i).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) applicable with respect to fiscal year 2022 and each succeeding fiscal year, see [section 186(d) of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s186/d), The Congress.
