---
title: "§ 7306. Disclosure of information"
identifier: "USC-T15-S7306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section7306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–231, § 7](/us/pl/107/231/s7), Oct. 1, 2002, [116 Stat. 1475](/us/stat/116/1475).)"
---
# § 7306. Disclosure of information

##### § 7306. Disclosure of information

(a) General rule Except as otherwise provided in this section, a copy of a record, information, or investigation submitted or received by a Team shall be made available to the public on request and at reasonable cost.

(b) Exceptions Subsection (a) does not require the release of—

(1) information described by [section 552(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/b) or protected from disclosure by any other law of the United States; or

(2) information described in subsection (a) by the National Institute of Standards and Technology or by a Team until the report required by [section 7307 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7307) is issued.

(c) Protection of voluntary submission of information Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a Team, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and any agency receiving information from a Team or the National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall not disclose voluntarily provided safety-related information if that information is not directly related to the building failure being investigated and the Director finds that the disclosure of the information would inhibit the voluntary provision of that type of information.

(d) Public safety information A Team and the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall not publicly release any information it receives in the course of an investigation under this chapter if the Director finds that the disclosure of that information might jeopardize public safety.

*([Pub. L. 107–231, § 7](/us/pl/107/231/s7), Oct. 1, 2002, [116 Stat. 1475](/us/stat/116/1475).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (d), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 107–231](/us/pl/107/231), Oct. 1, 2002, [116 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/116/1471), known as the National Construction Safety Team Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7301 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7301) and Tables.
