---
title: "§ 5871. Facilitating discussions regarding acquisition of space hardware, technology, and services from former Soviet Union"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5871"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5871"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–511, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/102/511/tVI/s601), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3346](/us/stat/106/3346).)"
---
# § 5871. Facilitating discussions regarding acquisition of space hardware, technology, and services from former Soviet Union

##### § 5871. Facilitating discussions regarding acquisition of space hardware, technology, and services from former Soviet Union

(a) Expedited review Any request for a license or other approval described in subsection (c) that is submitted to any United States Government agency by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, any of its contractors, or any other person shall be considered on an expedited basis by that agency and any other agency involved in an applicable interagency review process.

(b) Notice to Congress if license denied If any United States Government agency denies a request for a license or other approval described in subsection (c), that agency shall immediately notify the designated congressional committees. Each such notification shall include a statement of the reasons for the denial.

(c) Description of discussions This section applies to a request for any license or other approval that may be necessary to conduct discussions with an independent state of the former Soviet Union with respect to the possible acquisition of any space hardware, space technology, or space service for integration into—

including discussions relating to technical evaluation of such hardware, technology, or service.

(1) United States space projects that have been approved by the Congress, or

(2) commercial space ventures,

*([Pub. L. 102–511, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/102/511/tVI/s601), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3346](/us/stat/106/3346).)*
