---
title: "§ 6314. Port performance freight statistics program"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6314"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6314"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VI, § 6018(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVI/s6018/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1576](/us/stat/129/1576); amended [Pub. L. 115–435, title III, § 302(c)(3)(B)](/us/pl/115/435/tIII/s302/c/3/B), Jan. 14, 2019, [132 Stat. 5553](/us/stat/132/5553); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title V, § 512(c)(7)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/tV/s512/c/7/A/ii), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2757](/us/stat/134/2757).)"
---
# § 6314. Port performance freight statistics program

##### § 6314. Port performance freight statistics program

(a) In General.— The Director shall establish, on behalf of the Secretary, a port performance statistics program to provide nationally consistent measures of performance of, at a minimum—

(1) the Nation’s top 25 ports by tonnage;

(2) the Nation’s top 25 ports by 20-foot equivalent unit; and

(3) the Nation’s top 25 ports by dry bulk.

(b) Reports.—

(1) Port capacity and throughput.— Not later than January 15 of each year, the Director shall submit an annual report to Congress that includes statistics on capacity and throughput at the ports described in subsection (a).

(2) Port performance measures.— The Director shall collect port performance measures for each of the United States ports referred to in subsection (a) that—

(A) receives Federal assistance; or

(B) is subject to Federal regulation to submit necessary information to the Bureau that includes statistics on capacity and throughput as applicable to the specific configuration of the port.

(c) Recommendations.—

(1) In general.— The Director shall obtain recommendations for—

(A) port performance measures, including specifications and data measurements to be used in the program established under subsection (a); and

(B) a process for the Department to collect timely and consistent data, including identifying safeguards to protect proprietary information described in subsection (b)(2).

(2) Working group.— Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of the Transportation for Tomorrow Act of 2015, the Director shall commission a working group composed of—

(A) operating administrations of the Department;

(B) the Coast Guard;

(C) the Federal Maritime Commission;

(D) U.S. Customs and Border Protection;

(E) the Marine Transportation System National Advisory Council;

(F) the Army Corps of Engineers;

(G) the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation;

(H) the Bureau of Labor Statistics;

(I) the Maritime Advisory Committee for Occupational Safety and Health;

(J) the Advisory Committee on Supply Chain Competitiveness;

(K) 1 representative from the rail industry;

(L) 1 representative from the trucking industry;

(M) 1 representative from the maritime shipping industry;

(N) 1 representative from a labor organization for each industry described in subparagraphs (K) through (M);

(O) 1 representative from the International Longshoremen’s Association;

(P) 1 representative from the International Longshore and Warehouse Union;

(Q) 1 representative from a port authority;

(R) 1 representative from a terminal operator;

(S) representatives of the National Freight Advisory Committee of the Department; and

(T) representatives of the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine.

(3) Recommendations.— Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the Transportation for Tomorrow Act of 2015, the working group commissioned under paragraph (2) shall submit its recommendations to the Director.

(d) Access to Data.— The Director shall ensure that—

(1) the statistics compiled under this section—

(A) are readily accessible to the public; and

(B) are consistent with applicable security constraints and confidentiality interests; and

(2) the data acquired, regardless of source, shall be protected in accordance with [section 3572 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3572).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VI, § 6018(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVI/s6018/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1576](/us/stat/129/1576); amended [Pub. L. 115–435, title III, § 302(c)(3)(B)](/us/pl/115/435/tIII/s302/c/3/B), Jan. 14, 2019, [132 Stat. 5553](/us/stat/132/5553); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title V, § 512(c)(7)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/tV/s512/c/7/A/ii), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2757](/us/stat/134/2757).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Transportation for Tomorrow Act of 2015, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), (3), is the date of enactment of title VI of div. A of [Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94), which was approved Dec. 4, 2015.

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (c)(2)(G). [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) substituted “Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation” for “Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation”.

2019—Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 115–435](/us/pl/115/435) substituted “[section 3572 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3572).” for “the Confidential Information Protection and Statistical Efficiency Act of 2002 ([44 U.S.C. 3501](/us/usc/t44/s3501) note; [Public Law 107–347](/us/pl/107/347)).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–435](/us/pl/115/435) effective 180 days after Jan. 14, 2019, see [section 403 of Pub. L. 115–435](/us/pl/115/435/s403), set out as a note under [section 306 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s306), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Transitional and Savings Provisions

For transitional and savings provisions related to the amendment of this section and other provisions of law by title III of [Pub. L. 115–435](/us/pl/115/435), see [section 302(d) of Pub. L. 115–435](/us/pl/115/435/s302/d), set out as a note under [section 3561 of Title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3561), Public Printing and Documents.
