---
title: "§ 285e–1. Special functions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 444, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 854](/us/stat/99/854).)"
---
# § 285e–1. Special functions

##### § 285e–1. Special functions

(a) Education and training of adequate numbers of personnel In carrying out the training responsibilities under this chapter or any other Act for health and allied health professions personnel, the Secretary shall take appropriate steps to insure the education and training of adequate numbers of allied health, nursing, and paramedical personnel in the field of health care for the aged.

(b) Scientific studies The Director of the Institute shall conduct scientific studies to measure the impact on the biological, medical, social, and psychological aspects of aging of programs and activities assisted or conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services.

(c) Public information and education programs The Director of the Institute shall carry out public information and education programs designed to disseminate as widely as possible the findings of research sponsored by the Institute, other relevant aging research and studies, and other information about the process of aging which may assist elderly and near-elderly persons in dealing with, and all Americans in understanding, the problems and processes associated with growing older.

(d) Grants for research relating to Alzheimer’s Disease The Director of the Institute shall make grants to public and private nonprofit institutions to conduct research relating to Alzheimer’s Disease.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 444, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 854](/us/stat/99/854).)*
