---
title: "§ 923. Art. 123. Offenses concerning Government computers"
identifier: "USC-T10-S923"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section923"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5436](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5436), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2952](/us/stat/130/2952).)"
---
# § 923. Art. 123. Offenses concerning Government computers

##### § 923. Art. 123. Offenses concerning Government computers

(a) In General.— Any person subject to this chapter who—

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(1) knowingly accesses a Government computer, with an unauthorized purpose, and by doing so obtains classified information, with reason to believe such information could be used to the injury of the United States, or to the advantage of any foreign nation, and intentionally communicates, delivers, transmits, or causes to be communicated, delivered, or transmitted such information to any person not entitled to receive it;

(2) intentionally accesses a Government computer, with an unauthorized purpose, and thereby obtains classified or other protected information from any Government computer; or

(3) knowingly causes the transmission of a program, information, code, or command, and as a result of such conduct, intentionally causes damage without authorization to a Government computer;

(b) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “computer” has the meaning given that term in [section 1030 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1030).

(2) The term “Government computer” means a computer owned or operated by or on behalf of the United States Government.

(3) The term “damage” has the meaning given that term in [section 1030 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1030).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5436](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5436), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2952](/us/stat/130/2952).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 923 was renumbered [section 905 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s905).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).
