---
title: "§ 8422. Deductions from pay; contributions for other service; deposits"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8422"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8422"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–335, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/99/335/tI/s101/a), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 536](/us/stat/100/536); amended [Pub. L. 100–238, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/100/238/tI/s104/a), Jan. 8, 1988, [101 Stat. 1746](/us/stat/101/1746); [Pub. L. 103–82, title III, § 371(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/82/tIII/s371/b/2), Sept. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 911](/us/stat/107/911); [Pub. L. 103–353, § 5(d)](/us/pl/103/353/s5/d), (e)(2), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3174](/us/stat/108/3174); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, §"
---
# § 8422. Deductions from pay; contributions for other service; deposits

##### § 8422. Deductions from pay; contributions for other service; deposits

(a)

(1) The employing agency shall deduct and withhold from basic pay of each employee and Member a percentage of basic pay determined in accordance with paragraph (2).

(2) The percentage to be deducted and withheld from basic pay for any pay period shall be equal to—

(A) the applicable percentage under paragraph (3), minus

(B) the percentage then in effect under section 3101(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to rate of tax for old-age, survivors, and disability insurance).

(3)

(A) The applicable percentage under this paragraph for civilian service by employees or Members other than revised annuity employees or further revised annuity employees shall be as follows: Employee7January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998. 7.25January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999. 7.4January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000. 7After December 31, 2000. Congressional employee7.5January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998. 7.75January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999. 7.9January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000. 7.5After December 31, 2000. Member7.5January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998. 7.75January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999. 7.9January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000. 8January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002. 7.5After December 31, 2002. Law enforcement officer, firefighter, member of the Capitol Police, member of the Supreme Court Police, or air traffic controller7.5 7.75 7.9 7.5January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.After December 31, 2000. Nuclear materials courier7January 1, 1987, to October 16, 1998. 7.5October 17, 1998, to December 31, 1998. 7.75January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999. 7.9January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000. 7.5After December 31, 2000. Customs and border protection officer7.5After June 29, 2008.

(B) The applicable percentage under this paragraph for civilian service by revised annuity employees shall be as follows: Employee9.3After December 31, 2012. Congressional employee9.3After December 31, 2012. Member9.3After December 31, 2012. Law enforcement officer, firefighter, member of the Capitol Police, member of the Supreme Court Police, or air traffic controller9.8After December 31, 2012. Nuclear materials courier9.8After December 31, 2012. Customs and border protection officer9.8After December 31, 2012.

(C) The applicable percentage under this paragraph for civilian service by further revised annuity employees shall be as follows: Employee10.6After December 31, 2013. Congressional employee10.6After December 31, 2013. Member10.6After December 31, 2013. Law enforcement officer, firefighter, member of the Capitol Police, member of the Supreme Court Police, or air traffic controller11.1After December 31, 2013. Nuclear materials courier11.1After December 31, 2013. Customs and border protection officer11.1After December 31, 2013.

(b) Each employee or Member is deemed to consent and agree to the deductions under subsection (a). Notwithstanding any law or regulation affecting the pay of an employee or Member, payment less such deductions is a full and complete discharge and acquittance of all claims and demands for regular services during the period covered by the payment, except the right to any benefits under this subchapter, or under subchapter IV or V of this chapter, based on the service of the employee or Member.

(c) The amounts deducted and withheld under this section shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Fund under such procedures as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe. Deposits made by an employee, Member, or survivor also shall be credited to the Fund.

(d)

(1) Under such regulations as the Office may prescribe, amounts deducted under subsection (a) shall be entered on individual retirement records.

(2) Deposit may not be required for days of unused sick leave credited under paragraph (1) or (2) of section 8415(m).

(e)

(1)

(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), and subject to paragraph (6), each employee or Member who has performed military service before the date of the separation on which the entitlement to any annuity under this subchapter, or subchapter V of this chapter, is based may pay, in accordance with such regulations as the Office shall issue, to the agency by which the employee is employed, or, in the case of a Member or a Congressional employee, to the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, as appropriate, an amount equal to 3 percent of the amount of the basic pay paid under [section 204 of title 37](/us/usc/t37/s204) to the employee or Member for each period of military service after December 1956. The amount of such payments shall be based on such evidence of basic pay for military service as the employee or Member may provide, or if the Office determines sufficient evidence has not been so provided to adequately determine basic pay for military service, such payment shall be based on estimates of such basic pay provided to the Office under paragraph (4).

(B) In any case where military service interrupts creditable civilian service under this subchapter and reemployment pursuant to chapter 43 of title 38 occurs on or after August 1, 1990, the deposit payable under this paragraph may not exceed the amount that would have been deducted and withheld under subsection (a)(1) from basic pay during civilian service if the employee had not performed the period of military service.

(2) Any deposit made under paragraph (1) more than two years after the later of—

shall include interest on such amount computed and compounded annually beginning on the date of the expiration of the two-year period. The interest rate that is applicable in computing interest in any year under this paragraph shall be equal to the interest rate that is applicable for such year under section 8334(e).

(A) January 1, 1987; or

(B) the date on which the employee or Member making the deposit first becomes an employee or Member following the period of military service for which such deposit is due,

(3) Any payment received by an agency, the Secretary of the Senate, or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives under this subsection shall be immediately remitted to the Office for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Fund.

(4) The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as appropriate, shall furnish such information to the Office as the Office may determine to be necessary for the administration of this subsection.

(5) For the purpose of survivor annuities, deposits authorized by this subsection may also be made by a survivor of an employee or Member.

(6) The percentage of basic pay under [section 204 of title 37](/us/usc/t37/s204) payable under paragraph (1), with respect to any period of military service performed during—

(A) January 1, 1999, through December 31, 1999, shall be 3.25 percent; and

(B) January 1, 2000, through December 31, 2000, shall be 3.4 percent.

(7)

(A) In calculating and processing the deposit under paragraph (1) with respect to an employee, Member, or annuitant, if the employing agency of such employee, Member, or annuitant makes an administrative error, such employing agency may pay, on behalf of the employee, Member, or annuitant, any additional interest assessed due to the administrative error.

(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, as appropriate, shall be considered the employing agency of a Member or Congressional employee.

(C) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out this paragraph.

(f)

(1) Each employee or Member who has performed service as a volunteer or volunteer leader under part A of title VIII of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as a full-time volunteer enrolled in a program of at least 1 year’s duration under part A, B,11 See References in Text note below. or C of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, or as a volunteer or volunteer leader under the Peace Corps Act before the date of the separation on which the entitlement to any annuity under this subchapter, or subchapter V of this chapter, is based may pay, in accordance with such regulations as the Office of Personnel Management shall issue, an amount equal to 3 percent of the readjustment allowance paid to the employee or Member under title VIII of the Economic Opportunity Service Act of 1964 or section 5(c) or 6(1) of the Peace Corps Act or the stipend paid to the employee or Member under part A, B,1 or C of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, for each period of service as such a volunteer or volunteer leader. This paragraph shall be subject to paragraph (4).

(2) Any deposit made under paragraph (1) more than 2 years after the later of—

shall include interest on such amount computed and compounded annually beginning on the date of the expiration of the 2-year period. The interest rate that is applicable in computing interest in any year under this paragraph shall be equal to the interest rate that is applicable for such year under section 8334(e).

(A) October 1, 1993, or

(B) the date on which the employee or Member making the deposit first becomes an employee or Member,

(3) The Director of the Peace Corps and the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service shall furnish such information to the Office of Personnel Management as the Office may determine to be necessary for the administration of this subsection.

(4) The percentage of the readjustment allowance or stipend (as the case may be) payable under paragraph (1), with respect to any period of volunteer service performed during—

(A) January 1, 1999, through December 31, 1999, shall be 3.25 percent; and

(B) January 1, 2000, through December 31, 2000, shall be 3.4 percent.

(5)

(A) In calculating and processing the deposit under paragraph (1) with respect to an employee, Member, or annuitant, if an employing agency of such employee, Member, or annuitant makes an administrative error that causes additional interest assessed to accrue on the deposit, the employee, Member, or annuitant’s employing agency may pay, on behalf of the employee, Member, or annuitant, any additional interest assessed due to the administrative error.

(B) In calculating and processing the deposit under paragraph (1) with respect to an employee, Member, or annuitant, if the Office of Personnel Management makes an administrative error that causes additional interest assessed to accrue on the deposit, the Office of Personnel Management may pay, on behalf of the employee, Member, or annuitant, any additional interest assessed due to the administrative error.

(C) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, as appropriate, shall be considered the employing agency of a Member or congressional employee.

(D) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out this paragraph.

(g) A Member who has served in a position in the executive branch for which the rate of basic pay was reduced for the duration of the service of the Member to remove the impediment to the appointment of the Member imposed by article I, section 6, clause 2 of the Constitution, or the survivor of such a Member, may deposit to the credit of the Fund an amount equal to the difference between the amount deducted from the basic pay of the Member during that period of service and the amount that would have been deducted if the rate of basic pay which would otherwise have been in effect during that period had been in effect, plus interest computed under section 8334(e).

(h) No deposit may be made with respect to service credited under section 8411(b)(6).

(i)

(1) Each employee or Member who has received a refund of retirement deductions under this or any other retirement system established for employees of the Government covering service for which such employee or Member may be allowed credit under this chapter may deposit the amount received, with interest. Credit may not be allowed for the service covered by the refund until the deposit is made.

(2) Interest under this subsection shall be computed in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 8334(e) and regulations prescribed by the Office. The option under the third sentence of section 8334(e)(2) to make a deposit in one or more installments shall apply to deposits under this subsection.

(3) For the purpose of survivor annuities, deposits authorized by this subsection may also be made by a survivor of an employee or Member.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–335, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/99/335/tI/s101/a), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 536](/us/stat/100/536); amended [Pub. L. 100–238, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/100/238/tI/s104/a), Jan. 8, 1988, [101 Stat. 1746](/us/stat/101/1746); [Pub. L. 103–82, title III, § 371(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/82/tIII/s371/b/2), Sept. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 911](/us/stat/107/911); [Pub. L. 103–353, § 5(d)](/us/pl/103/353/s5/d), (e)(2), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3174](/us/stat/108/3174); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 215(14)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s215/14), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1746](/us/stat/110/1746); [Pub. L. 104–316, title I, § 103(g)](/us/pl/104/316/tI/s103/g), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3829](/us/stat/110/3829); [Pub. L. 105–33, title VII, § 7001(b)(1)](/us/pl/105/33/tVII/s7001/b/1), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 657](/us/stat/111/657); [Pub. L. 105–61, title V, § 516(a)(8)](/us/pl/105/61/tV/s516/a/8), Oct. 10, 1997, [111 Stat. 1307](/us/stat/111/1307); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. C, title XXXI, § 3154(i)(1)](/us/pl/105/261/dC/tXXXI/s3154/i/1), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2255](/us/stat/112/2255); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, § 1066(d)(3)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tX/s1066/d/3), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 773](/us/stat/113/773); [Pub. L. 106–346, § 101(a) [title V, § 505(b)]](/us/pl/106/346/s101/a/tV/s505/b), Oct. 23, 2000, [114 Stat. 1356](/us/stat/114/1356), 1356A–52; [Pub. L. 106–553, § 1(a)(2) [title III, § 308(c)(3)]](/us/pl/106/553/s1/a/2/tIII/s308/c/3), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2762](/us/stat/114/2762), 2762A–87; [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title XI, § 1132(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tXI/s1132/b/2/A), (B), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1243](/us/stat/115/1243), 1244; [Pub. L. 107–135, title I, § 122(b)](/us/pl/107/135/tI/s122/b), Jan. 23, 2002, [115 Stat. 2451](/us/stat/115/2451); [Pub. L. 108–92, § 1(b)](/us/pl/108/92/s1/b), Oct. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1160](/us/stat/117/1160); [Pub. L. 108–176, title II, § 226(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/108/176/tII/s226/b/2/A), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2530](/us/stat/117/2530); [Pub. L. 110–161, div. E, title V, § 535(b)(4)](/us/pl/110/161/dE/tV/s535/b/4), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2076](/us/stat/121/2076); [Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title XIX](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tXIX), §§ 1901(b), 1904(a), (b)(2), (3)(A), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2615](/us/stat/123/2615), 2616; [Pub. L. 112–96, title V, § 5001(b)](/us/pl/112/96/tV/s5001/b), (c)(2)(A), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 199](/us/stat/126/199); [Pub. L. 113–67, div. A, title IV, § 401(b)](/us/pl/113/67/dA/tIV/s401/b), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/127/1184); [Pub. L. 115–352](/us/pl/115/352), §§ 2(b), 3(b), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5067](/us/stat/132/5067), 5068.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 3101(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(B), is classified to [section 3101(a) of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s3101/a), Internal Revenue Code.

The Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, referred to in subsec. (f)(1), is [Pub. L. 88–452](/us/pl/88/452), Aug. 20, 1964, [78 Stat. 508](/us/stat/78/508). Title VIII of the Act probably means title VIII of [Pub. L. 88–452](/us/pl/88/452) as added by [Pub. L. 89–794, title VIII, § 801](/us/pl/89/794/tVIII/s801), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1472](/us/stat/80/1472), and generally revised and amended by [Pub. L. 90–222, title I, § 110](/us/pl/90/222/tI/s110), Dec. 23, 1967, [81 Stat. 722](/us/stat/81/722), which was classified generally to subchapter VIII (§ 2991 et seq.) of chapter 34 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to its repeal by [Pub. L. 93–113, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/93/113/tVI/s603), Oct. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 417](/us/stat/87/417). Part A of title VIII of the Act is part A of title VIII of [Pub. L. 88–452](/us/pl/88/452) as added by [Pub. L. 90–222, § 110](/us/pl/90/222/s110), which was classified generally to part A (§ 2992 et seq.) of subchapter VIII of chapter 34 of Title 42, prior to its repeal by [Pub. L. 93–113, § 603](/us/pl/93/113/s603). See sections 4951 et seq. and 5055 of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, referred to in subsec. (f)(1), is [Pub. L. 93–113](/us/pl/93/113), Oct. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 394](/us/stat/87/394). Parts A and C of title I of the Act are classified generally to parts A (§ 4951 et seq.) and C (§ 4991 et seq.), respectively, of subchapter I of chapter 66 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Part B of title I of the Act, which was classified generally to part B (§ 4971 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 66 of Title 42, was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–13, title II, § 2121](/us/pl/111/13/tII/s2121), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1584](/us/stat/123/1584). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4950 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4950) and Tables.

The Peace Corps Act, referred to in subsec. (f)(1), is [Pub. L. 87–293](/us/pl/87/293), Sept. 22, 1961, [75 Stat. 612](/us/stat/75/612), which is classified principally to chapter 34 (§ 2501 et seq.) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. Sections 5(c) and 6(1) of the Act are classified to sections 2504(c) and 2505(1), respectively, of Title 22. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2501 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s2501) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (e)(7). [Pub. L. 115–352, § 2(b)](/us/pl/115/352/s2/b), added par. (7).

Subsec. (f)(5). [Pub. L. 115–352, § 3(b)](/us/pl/115/352/s3/b), added par. (5).

2013—Subsec. (a)(3)(A). [Pub. L. 113–67, § 401(b)(1)](/us/pl/113/67/s401/b/1), inserted “or further revised annuity employees” after “revised annuity employees”.

Subsec. (a)(3)(C). [Pub. L. 113–67, § 401(b)(2)](/us/pl/113/67/s401/b/2), added subpar. (C).

2012—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 112–96, § 5001(b)](/us/pl/112/96/s5001/b), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A), substituted “The applicable percentage under this paragraph for civilian service by employees or Members other than revised annuity employees” for “The applicable percentage under this paragraph for civilian service”, and added subpar. (B).

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 112–96, § 5001(c)(2)(A)](/us/pl/112/96/s5001/c/2/A), substituted “section 8415(m)” for “section 8415(*l*)”.

2009—[Pub. L. 111–84, § 1904(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/111/84/s1904/b/3/A), amended section catchline generally, inserting “; deposits” after “service”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–84, § 1904(b)(2)](/us/pl/111/84/s1904/b/2), inserted at end “Deposits made by an employee, Member, or survivor also shall be credited to the Fund.”

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 111–84, § 1901(b)](/us/pl/111/84/s1901/b), substituted “paragraph (1) or (2) of section 8415(*l*)” for “section 8415(k)”.

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 111–84, § 1904(a)](/us/pl/111/84/s1904/a), added subsec. (i).

2007—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161) inserted table for customs and border protection officer.

2003—Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176), which directed the substitution of “8415(j)” for “8415(i)”, could not be executed because “8415(i)” did not appear subsequent to amendment by [Pub. L. 108–92](/us/pl/108/92). See below.

[Pub. L. 108–92](/us/pl/108/92) substituted “8415(k)” for “8415(i)”.

2002—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 107–135](/us/pl/107/135) designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

2001—[Pub. L. 107–107, § 1132(b)(2)(B)](/us/pl/107/107/s1132/b/2/B), substituted “other service” for “military service” in section catchline.

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 107–107, § 1132(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/107/107/s1132/b/2/A), added subsec. (h).

2000—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 106–553](/us/pl/106/553) inserted “member of the Supreme Court Police,” after “member of the Capitol Police,” in table for law enforcement officer, firefighter, member of the Capitol Police, or air traffic controller.

[Pub. L. 106–346, § 101(a) [title V, § 505(b)(1)]](/us/pl/106/346/s101/a/tV/s505/b/1), added par. (3) and struck out former par. (3), which set out tables of applicable percentages for employee, Congressional employee, Member, law enforcement officer, firefighter, member of the Capitol Police, air traffic controller, and nuclear materials courier.

Subsec. (e)(6). [Pub. L. 106–346, § 101(a) [title V, § 505(b)(2)]](/us/pl/106/346/s101/a/tV/s505/b/2), inserted “and” at end of subpar. (A), substituted a period for “; and” at end of subpar. (B), and struck out subpar. (C) which read as follows: “January 1, 2001, through December 31, 2002, shall be 3.5 percent.”

Subsec. (f)(4). [Pub. L. 106–346, § 101(a) [title V, § 505(b)(3)]](/us/pl/106/346/s101/a/tV/s505/b/3), inserted “and” at end of subpar. (A), substituted a period for “; and” at end of subpar. (B), and struck out subpar. (C) which read as follows: “January 1, 2001, through December 31, 2002, shall be 3.5 percent.”

1999—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65), in table for nuclear materials courier, substituted “October 16, 1998” for “the day before the date of the enactment of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999” and “October 17, 1998” for “The date of the enactment of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999”.

1998—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 105–261](/us/pl/105/261) inserted table for nuclear materials courier.

1997—Subsec. (a)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 7001(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/105/33/s7001/b/1/A), added pars. (2) and (3) and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “The applicable percentage under this subsection for any pay period shall be—

“(A) in the case of an employee (other than a law enforcement officer, firefighter, air traffic controller, or Congressional employee) a percentage equal to—

“(i) 7 percent, minus

“(ii) the percentage then in effect under section 3101(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to rate of tax for old-age, survivors, and disability insurance); and

“(B) in the case of a Member, law enforcement officer, firefighter, air traffic controller, or Congressional employee, a percentage equal to—

“(i) 7½ percent, minus

“(ii) the same percentage as would apply in the case of an employee under subparagraph (A)(ii).”

Subsec. (e)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 7001(b)(1)(B)(i)](/us/pl/105/33/s7001/b/1/B/i), inserted “and subject to paragraph (6),” after “Except as provided in subparagraph (B),”.

Subsec. (e)(6). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 7001(b)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/105/33/s7001/b/1/B/ii), added par. (6).

Subsec. (f)(1). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 7001(b)(1)(C)(i)](/us/pl/105/33/s7001/b/1/C/i), inserted at end “This paragraph shall be subject to paragraph (4).”

Subsec. (f)(4). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 7001(b)(1)(C)(ii)](/us/pl/105/33/s7001/b/1/C/ii), added par. (4).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 105–61](/us/pl/105/61) added subsec. (g).

1996—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 104–316](/us/pl/104/316) substituted “Secretary of the Treasury” for “Comptroller General of the United States”.

Subsec. (e)(1)(A), (3). [Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) substituted “Chief Administrative Officer” for “Clerk”.

1994—Subsec. (a)(2)(A)(ii). [Pub. L. 103–353, § 5(e)(2)](/us/pl/103/353/s5/e/2), substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”.

Subsec. (e)(1). [Pub. L. 103–353, § 5(d)(1)](/us/pl/103/353/s5/d/1), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A) and substituted “Except as provided in subparagraph (B), each employee” for “Each employee” and added subpar. (B).

Subsec. (e)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 103–353, § 5(d)(2)](/us/pl/103/353/s5/d/2), inserted before comma at end “following the period of military service for which such deposit is due”.

1993—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82) added subsec. (f).

1988—Subsec. (e)(5). [Pub. L. 100–238](/us/pl/100/238) added par. (5).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

Amendment by [section 1901(b) of Pub. L. 111–84](/us/pl/111/84/s1901/b) applicable with respect to any annuity, entitlement to which is based on a death or other separation from service occurring on or after Oct. 28, 2009, see [section 1901(c) of Pub. L. 111–84](/us/pl/111/84/s1901/c), set out as a note under [section 8415 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8415).

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment; Transition Rules

Amendment by [Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161) effective on the later of June 30, 2008, or the first day of the first pay period beginning at least 6 months after Dec. 26, 2007, with transition rules and rights of election, see [section 535(e) of Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161/s535/e), set out as a note under [section 3307 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s3307).

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendments

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176) effective on 60th day after Dec. 12, 2003, and applicable with respect to any annuity entitlement based on an individual’s separation from service occurring on or after such effective date, and any service performed by any such individual before, on, or after such effective date, subject to special rule relating to deposit requirement, see [section 226(c) of Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176/s226/c), set out as a note under [section 8401 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8401).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–92](/us/pl/108/92) applicable with respect to any annuity entitlement which is based on a separation from service occurring on or after Oct. 3, 2003, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 108–92](/us/pl/108/92/s2), set out as a note under [section 8415 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8415).

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–135](/us/pl/107/135) effective 60 days after Jan. 23, 2002, and applicable to individuals who separate from service on or after that effective date, see [section 122(c) of Pub. L. 107–135](/us/pl/107/135/s122/c), set out as a note under [section 8415 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8415).

#### Effective Date of 2001 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–107](/us/pl/107/107) applicable only to separations from service as an employee of the United States on or after Dec. 28, 2001, see [section 1132(c) of Pub. L. 107–107](/us/pl/107/107/s1132/c), set out as a note under [section 8332 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8332).

#### Effective Date of 2000 Amendments

Amendment by [Pub. L. 106–553](/us/pl/106/553) effective on the first day of the first applicable pay period that begins on Dec. 21, 2000, and applicable only to an individual who is employed as a member of the Supreme Court Police after Dec. 21, 2000, see section 1(a)(2) [title III, § 308(i), (j)] of [Pub. L. 106–553](/us/pl/106/553), set out in a Supreme Court Police Retirement note under [section 8331 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8331).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 106–346](/us/pl/106/346) effective upon the close of calendar year 2000 and applicable thereafter, see section 101(a) [title V, § 505(i)] of [Pub. L. 106–346](/us/pl/106/346), set out as a note under [section 8334 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8334).

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–261](/us/pl/105/261) effective at the beginning of the first pay period that begins after Oct. 17, 1998, and applicable only to an individual who is employed as a nuclear materials courier, as defined by section 8331(27) or 8401(33) of this title, after Oct. 17, 1998, see section 3154(m), (n) of [Pub. L. 105–261](/us/pl/105/261), set out as a note under [section 8331 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8331).

#### Effective Date of 1997 Amendments

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–61](/us/pl/105/61) applicable to any annuity commencing before, on, or after Oct. 10, 1997, and effective with regard to any payment made after the first month following Oct. 10, 1997, see [section 516(b) of Pub. L. 105–61](/us/pl/105/61/s516/b), set out as a note under [section 8334 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8334).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–33](/us/pl/105/33) effective Oct. 1, 1997, see [section 7001(f) of Pub. L. 105–33](/us/pl/105/33/s7001/f), set out as a note under [section 8334 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8334).

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–353](/us/pl/103/353) effective with respect to reemployments initiated on or after the first day after the 60-day period beginning Oct. 13, 1994, with transition rules, see [section 8 of Pub. L. 103–353](/us/pl/103/353/s8), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 4301 of Title 38](/us/usc/t38/s4301), Veterans’ Benefits.

#### Effective Date of 1993 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82) effective Oct. 1, 1993, and applicable with respect to any individual entitled to an annuity on the basis of a separation from service occurring before, on, or after Oct. 1, 1993, subject to rule relating to annuities based on earlier separations, see sections 371(c) and 392 of [Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82), set out as notes under [section 8332 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8332) and [section 4951 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4951), The Public Health and Welfare, respec­tively.

#### Authorization of Payments

Payments from the Office of Personnel Management authorized by [section 3(b) of Pub. L. 115–352](/us/pl/115/352/s3/b), which amended this section, to be paid from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, see [section 3(c) of Pub. L. 115–352](/us/pl/115/352/s3/c), set out as a note under [section 8334 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8334).

#### No Reduction in Agency Contributions

[Pub. L. 105–261, div. C, title XXXI, § 3154(i)(2)](/us/pl/105/261/dC/tXXXI/s3154/i/2), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2256](/us/stat/112/2256), provided that: “Contributions under subsections (a) and (b) of [section 8423 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8423), United States Code, shall not be reduced as a result of that portion of the amendment made by paragraph (1) [amending this section] requiring employee deductions at a rate in excess of 7.5 percent for the period beginning on January 1, 1999, and ending on December 31, 2002.”

[Pub. L. 105–33, title VII, § 7001(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/33/tVII/s7001/b/2), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 658](/us/stat/111/658), provided that: “Contributions under section 8423(a) and (b) of title 5, United States Code, shall not be reduced as a result of the amendments made under paragraph (1) [amending this section] of this subsection.”
