---
title: "§ 2741. Authority to pay for or reimburse for certain security services"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2741"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2741"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXI, § 7115](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXI/s7115), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/138/2527).)"
---
# § 2741. Authority to pay for or reimburse for certain security services

##### § 2741. Authority to pay for or reimburse for certain security services

(a) In general The Secretary and the Administrator are authorized to pay for or reimburse for appropriate security services to mitigate risks to certain employees or members of their households resulting from or related to the employee’s official duties or affiliation with the Department or USAID. These security equipment or services may include security cameras and services to de-prioritize or remove internet search results revealing personally identifiable information.

(b) Required policy Prior to paying for or reimbursing services pursuant to subsection (a), the Department shall establish a policy that—

(1) outlines the requirements for qualifying for the payment of or reimbursement of services;

(2) identifies the office responsible for vetting requests for paying for or reimbursing of services; and

(3) mandates expeditious consideration of such requests.

*([Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXI, § 7115](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXI/s7115), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/138/2527).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary”, “Administrator”, “Department”, and “USAID” as used in this section, see [section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159/s7002), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
