---
title: "§ 8454a. Midshipmen: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8454a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8454a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, § 553(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tV/s553/b/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1737](/us/stat/135/1737).)"
---
# § 8454a. Midshipmen: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate

##### § 8454a. Midshipmen: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate

(a) Senators.— In the event a Senator does not submit all nominations for midshipmen allocated to such Senator for an academic year in accordance with [section 8454(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8454/a/3), due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office, and the date of the swearing-in of the Senator’s successor as Senator occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for midshipmen for the academic year, the nominations for midshipmen for such academic year, otherwise authorized to be made by the Senator pursuant to such section, may be made instead by the other Senator from the State of such Representative.

(b) Representatives.— In the event a Representative does not submit all nominations for midshipmen allocated to such Representative for an academic year in accordance with [section 8454(a)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8454/a/4), due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office, and the date of the swearing-in of the Representative’s successor as Representative occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for midshipmen for the academic year, the nominations for midshipmen for such academic year, otherwise authorized to be made by the Representative pursuant to such section, may be made instead by the Senators from the State of such Representative, with such nominations divided equally among such Senators and any remainder going to the senior Senator from the State.

(c) Rule of Construction.— The nomination of a midshipman by a Member of Congress pursuant to this section shall not be construed to permanently reallocate nominations under [section 8454 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8454).

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, § 553(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tV/s553/b/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1737](/us/stat/135/1737).)*
