---
title: "§ 7132. Subpenas"
identifier: "USC-T5-S7132"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section7132"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/95/454/tVII/s701), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1214](/us/stat/92/1214).)"
---
# § 7132. Subpenas

##### § 7132. Subpenas

(a) Any member of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel, any administrative law judge appointed by the Authority under [section 3105 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s3105), and any employee of the Authority designated by the Authority may—

No subpena shall be issued under this section which requires the disclosure of intramanagement guidance, advice, counsel, or training within an agency or between an agency and the Office of Personnel Management.

(1) issue subpenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary or other evidence from any place in the United States; and

(2) administer oaths, take or order the taking of depositions, order responses to written interrogatories, examine witnesses, and receive evidence.

(b) In the case of contumacy or failure to obey a subpena issued under subsection (a)(1) of this section, the United States district court for the judicial district in which the person to whom the subpena is addressed resides or is served may issue an order requiring such person to appear at any designated place to testify or to produce documentary or other evidence. Any failure to obey the order of the court may be punished by the court as a contempt thereof.

(c) Witnesses (whether appearing voluntarily or under subpena) shall be paid the same fee and mileage allowances which are paid subpenaed witnesses in the courts of the United States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/95/454/tVII/s701), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1214](/us/stat/92/1214).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
