---
title: "§ 1814. Transfer or assignment; expiration; renewal"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1814"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1814"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–470, title I, § 104](/us/pl/97/470/tI/s104), Jan. 14, 1983, [96 Stat. 2589](/us/stat/96/2589).)"
---
# § 1814. Transfer or assignment; expiration; renewal

##### § 1814. Transfer or assignment; expiration; renewal

(a) Transfer or assignment prohibited A certificate of registration may not be transferred or assigned.

(b) Expiration; renewals

(1) Unless earlier suspended or revoked, a certificate shall expire twelve months from the date of issuance, except that (A) certificates issued under this chapter during the period beginning December 1, 1982, and ending November 30, 1983, may be issued for a period of up to twenty-four months for the purpose of an orderly transition to registration under this chapter, (B) a certificate may be temporarily extended by the filing of an application with the Secretary at least thirty days prior to its expiration date, and (C) the Secretary may renew a certificate for additional twelve-month periods or for periods in excess of twelve months but not in excess of twenty-four months.

(2) Eligibility for renewals for periods of more than twelve months shall be limited to farm labor contractors who have not been cited for a violation of this chapter, or any regulation under this chapter, or the Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act of 1963 [[7 U.S.C. 2041](/us/usc/t7/s2041) et seq.], or any regulation under such Act, during the preceding five years.

*([Pub. L. 97–470, title I, § 104](/us/pl/97/470/tI/s104), Jan. 14, 1983, [96 Stat. 2589](/us/stat/96/2589).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act of 1963, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 88–582](/us/pl/88/582), Sept. 7, 1964, [78 Stat. 920](/us/stat/78/920), which was classified generally to chapter 52 (§ 2041 et seq.) of Title 7, Agriculture, and was repealed by [Pub. L. 97–470, title V, § 523](/us/pl/97/470/tV/s523), Jan. 14, 1983, [96 Stat. 2600](/us/stat/96/2600). See section 1801 et seq. of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days from Jan. 14, 1983, see [section 524 of Pub. L. 97–470](/us/pl/97/470/s524), set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1801).
