---
title: "§ 983. Functions of Corporation"
identifier: "USC-T33-S983"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section983"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([May 13, 1954, ch. 201, § 3](/us/act/1954-05-13/ch201/s3), [68 Stat. 93](/us/stat/68/93); [Pub. L. 95–91, title IV, § 402(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/95/91/tIV/s402/a/1/A), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 583](/us/stat/91/583).)"
---
# § 983. Functions of Corporation

##### § 983. Functions of Corporation

(a) Construction of deep-water navigation works in Saint Lawrence River; conditions precedent The Corporation is authorized and directed to construct, in United States territory, deep-water navigation works substantially in accordance with the “Controlled single stage project, 238–242” (with a controlling depth of twenty-seven feet in channels and canals and locks at least eight hundred feet long, eighty feet wide, and thirty feet over the sills), designated as “works solely for navigation” in the joint report dated January 3, 1941, of the Canadian Temporary Great Lakes-Saint Lawrence Basin Committee and the United States Saint Lawrence Advisory Committee, in the International Rapids section of the Saint Lawrence River together with necessary dredging in the Thousand Islands section; and to operate and maintain such works in coordination with the Saint Lawrence Seaway Authority of Canada, created by chapter 24 of the acts of the fifth session of the Twenty-first Parliament of Canada 15–16, George VI (assented to December 21, 1951): *Provided*, That the Corporation shall not proceed with the aforesaid construction unless and until—

(1) the Saint Lawrence Seaway Authority of Canada, provides assurances satisfactory to the Corporation that it will complete the Canadian portions of the navigation works authorized by section 10, chapter 24 of the acts of the fifth session of the Twenty-first Parliament of Canada 15–16, George VI, 1951, as nearly as possible concurrently with the completion of the works authorized by this section;

(2) the Corporation has received assurances satisfactory to it that the State of New York, or an entity duly designated by it, or other licensee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, in conjunction with an appropriate agency in Canada, as nearly as possible concurrently with the navigation works herein authorized, will construct and complete the dams and power works approved by the International Joint Commission in its order of October 29, 1952 (docket 68) or any amendment or modification thereof.

(b) Coordination of activities regarding power proj­ects The Corporation shall make necessary arrangements to assure the coordination of its activities with those of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Authority of Canada and the entity designated by the State of New York, or other licensee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, authorized to construct and operate the dams and power works authorized by the International Joint Commission in its order of October 29, 1952 (docket 68) or any amendment or modification thereof.

*([May 13, 1954, ch. 201, § 3](/us/act/1954-05-13/ch201/s3), [68 Stat. 93](/us/stat/68/93); [Pub. L. 95–91, title IV, § 402(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/95/91/tIV/s402/a/1/A), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 583](/us/stat/91/583).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Federal Energy Regulatory Commission” substituted for “Federal Power Commission” in subsecs. (a)(2) and (b), on authority of [Pub. L. 95–91, title IV, § 402(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/95/91/tIV/s402/a/1/A), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 583](/us/stat/91/583), which is classified to [section 7172(a)(1)(A) of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7172/a/1/A), The Public Health and Welfare.
