---
title: "§ 3329. Intelligence community contracting"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3329"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3329"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–183, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/102/183/tIV/s403), Dec. 4, 1991, [105 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/105/1267); [Pub. L. 111–259, title VIII, § 810](/us/pl/111/259/tVIII/s810), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2750](/us/stat/124/2750).)"
---
# § 3329. Intelligence community contracting

##### § 3329. Intelligence community contracting

(a) In general The Director of National Intelligence shall direct that elements of the intelligence community, whenever compatible with the national security interests of the United States and consistent with the operational and security concerns related to the conduct of intelligence activities, and where fiscally sound, shall award contracts in a manner that would maximize the procurement of products in the United States.

(b) Intelligence community defined In this section, the term “intelligence community” has the meaning given that term in [section 3003(4) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003/4).

*([Pub. L. 102–183, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/102/183/tIV/s403), Dec. 4, 1991, [105 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/105/1267); [Pub. L. 111–259, title VIII, § 810](/us/pl/111/259/tVIII/s810), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2750](/us/stat/124/2750).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403–2 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403–2) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in the following prior authorization act: [Pub. L. 102–88, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/102/88/tIV/s404), Aug. 14, 1991, [105 Stat. 434](/us/stat/105/434).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–259](/us/pl/111/259) added subsec. (b), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence” and “intelligence community” for “Intelligence Community”, and struck out at end “For purposes of this provision, the term ‘Intelligence Community’ has the same meaning as set forth in paragraph 3.4(f) of Executive Order 12333, dated December 4, 1981, or successor orders.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Enhanced Procurement Authority To Manage Supply Chain Risk

[Pub. L. 112–87, title III, § 309](/us/pl/112/87/tIII/s309), Jan. 3, 2012, [125 Stat. 1883](/us/stat/125/1883), formerly set out as a note under this section, was transferred to [section 3334e of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3334e).
