---
title: "§ 2349. Categorical exclusions in emergencies"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2349"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2349"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1005(b)](/us/pl/113/121/tI/s1005/b), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/128/1212).)"
---
# § 2349. Categorical exclusions in emergencies

##### § 2349. Categorical exclusions in emergencies

(1) in the same location with the same capacity, dimensions, and design as the original water resources project as before the declaration described in this section; 11 See References in Text note below. and

(2) commenced within a 2-year period beginning on the date of a declaration described in this section.

*([Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1005(b)](/us/pl/113/121/tI/s1005/b), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/128/1212).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143), which is classified principally to chapter 68 (§ 5121 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

This section, referred to in par. (1), means [section 1005 of title I of Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121/tI/s1005), which amended this section and [section 2348 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2348).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
