---
title: "§ 17355. Powers of the Foundation; related provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17355"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17355"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 925](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s925), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1736](/us/stat/121/1736).)"
---
# § 17355. Powers of the Foundation; related provisions

##### § 17355. Powers of the Foundation; related provisions

(a) Powers The Foundation—

(1) shall have perpetual succession unless dissolved by a law enacted after December 19, 2007;

(2) may adopt, alter, and use a seal, which shall be judicially noticed;

(3) may make and perform such contracts, grants, and other agreements with any person or government however designated and wherever situated, as may be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Foundation;

(4) may determine and prescribe the manner in which its obligations shall be incurred and its expenses allowed and paid, including expenses for representation;

(5) may lease, purchase, or otherwise acquire, improve, and use such real property wherever situated, as may be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Foundation;

(6) may accept money, funds, services, or property (real, personal, or mixed), tangible or intangible, made available by gift, bequest 11 So in original. A comma probably should appear. grant, or otherwise for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter from domestic or foreign private individuals, charities, nongovernmental organizations, corporations, or governments;

(7) may use the United States mails in the same manner and on the same conditions as the executive departments;

(8) may contract with individuals for personal services, who shall not be considered Federal employees for any provision of law administered by the Office of Personnel Management;

(9) may hire or obtain passenger motor vehicles; and

(10) shall have such other powers as may be necessary and incident to carrying out this part.

(b) Principal office The Foundation shall maintain its principal office in the metropolitan area of Washington, District of Columbia.

(c) Applicability of Government Corporation Control Act

(1) In general The Foundation shall be subject to chapter 91 of subtitle VI of title 31, except that the Foundation shall not be authorized to issue obligations or offer obligations to the public.

(2) Omitted

(d) Inspector General

(1) In general The Inspector General of the Department of State shall serve as Inspector General of the Foundation, and, in acting in such capacity, may conduct reviews, investigations, and inspections of all aspects of the operations and activities of the Foundation.

(2) Authority of the Board In carrying out the responsibilities under this subsection, the Inspector General shall report to and be under the general supervision of the Board.

(3) Reimbursement and authorization of services

(A) Reimbursement The Foundation shall reimburse the Department of State for all expenses incurred by the Inspector General in connection with the Inspector General’s responsibilities under this subsection.

(B) Authorization for services Of the amount authorized to be appropriated under [section 17357(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17357/a) for a fiscal year, up to $500,000 is authorized to be made available to the Inspector General of the Department of State to conduct reviews, investigations, and inspections of operations and activities of the Foundation.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 925](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s925), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1736](/us/stat/121/1736).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(6), was in the original “this title”, meaning title IX of [Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/121/1725), which enacted this subchapter and amended [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees, [section 9101 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s9101), Money and Finance, and [section 3021 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s3021), War and National Defense. For complete classification of title IX to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 925 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s925). Subsec. (c)(2) of [section 925 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s925) amended [section 9101 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s9101), Money and Finance.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
