---
title: "§ 2872a. Utilities and services"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2872a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2872a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. B, title XXVIII, § 2805(a)]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dB/tXXVIII/s2805/a), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–414; amended [Pub. L. 107–314, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2802(a)](/us/pl/107/314/dB/tXXVIII/s2802/a), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2703](/us/stat/116/2703); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2804](/us/pl/113/66/dB/tXXVIII/s2804), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1007](/us/stat/127/1007); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX, § 3032](/us/pl/116/9"
---
# § 2872a. Utilities and services

##### § 2872a. Utilities and services

(a) Authority To Furnish.— The Secretary concerned may furnish utilities and services referred to in subsection (b) in connection with any military housing acquired or constructed pursuant to the exercise of any authority or combination of authorities under this subchapter if the military housing is located on a military installation.

(b) Covered Utilities and Services.— The utilities and services that may be furnished under subsection (a) are the following:

(1) Electric power.

(2) Steam.

(3) Compressed air.

(4) Water.

(5) Sewage and garbage disposal.

(6) Natural gas.

(7) Pest control.

(8) Snow and ice removal.

(9) Mechanical refrigeration.

(10) Telecommunications service.

(11) Firefighting and fire protection services.

(12) Police protection services.

(13) Street sweeping.

(14) Tree trimming and removal.

(c) Reimbursement.—

(1) The Secretary concerned shall be reimbursed for any utilities or services furnished under subsection (a).

(2) The amount of any cash payment received under paragraph (1) as reimbursement for the cost of furnishing utilities or services shall—

(A) in the case of a cost paid using funds appropriated or otherwise made available before October 1, 2014, be credited to the appropriation or working capital account from which the cost of furnishing utilities or services concerned was paid; or

(B) in the case of a cost paid using funds appropriated or otherwise made available on or after October 1, 2014, be credited to the appropriation or working capital account currently available for the purpose of furnishing utilities or services under subsection (a).

(3) Amounts credited under paragraph (2) to an appropriation or account shall be merged with funds in such appropriation or account, and shall be available to the same extent, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as such funds.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. B, title XXVIII, § 2805(a)]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dB/tXXVIII/s2805/a), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–414; amended [Pub. L. 107–314, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2802(a)](/us/pl/107/314/dB/tXXVIII/s2802/a), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2703](/us/stat/116/2703); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2804](/us/pl/113/66/dB/tXXVIII/s2804), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1007](/us/stat/127/1007); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX, § 3032](/us/pl/116/92/dB/tXXX/s3032), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1936](/us/stat/133/1936).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b)(13), (14). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) added pars. (13) and (14).

2013—Subsec. (c)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 113–66](/us/pl/113/66) substituted “under paragraph (1) as reimbursement for the cost of furnishing utilities or services shall—” for “under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the appropriation or working capital account from which the cost of furnishing the utilities or services concerned was paid.”, added subpars. (A) and (B), designated second sentence of par. (2) as par. (3), and substituted “Amounts credited under paragraph (2)” for “Amounts so credited”.

2002—Subsec. (b)(11), (12). [Pub. L. 107–314](/us/pl/107/314) added pars. (11) and (12).
