---
title: "§ 9171. Purpose"
identifier: "USC-T20-S9171"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section9171"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–462, title II, § 272](/us/pl/94/462/tII/s272), formerly § 271, as added [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(e) [title VII, § 702]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/e/tVII/s702), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–233](/us/stat/110/3009-233), 3009–302; renumbered § 272 and amended [Pub. L. 108–81, title III](/us/pl/108/81/tIII), §§ 301, 306(1), Sept. 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 1000](/us/stat/117/1000), 1002; [Pub. L. 111–340, title III, § 301](/us/pl/111/340/tIII/s301), Dec. 22, 2010, [124 Stat"
---
# § 9171. Purpose

##### § 9171. Purpose

(1) to encourage and support museums in carrying out their educational role, as core providers of learning and in conjunction with schools, families, and communities;

(2) to encourage and support museums in carrying out their public service role of connecting the whole of society to the cultural, artistic, historical, natural, and scientific understandings that constitute our diverse heritage;

(3) to encourage leadership, innovation, and applications of the most current technologies and practices to enhance museum services through international, national, regional, State, and local networks and partnerships;

(4) to assist, encourage, and support museums in carrying out their stewardship responsibilities to achieve the highest standards in conservation and care of the diverse cultural, historic, natural, and scientific heritage of the United States to benefit future generations;

(5) to assist, encourage, and support museums in achieving the highest standards of management and service to the public, and to ease the financial burden borne by museums as they serve their communities in new and different ways;

(6) to support resource sharing and partnerships among museums, libraries, schools, and other community organizations;

(7) to encourage and support museums as a part of economic development and revitalization in communities;

(8) to ensure museums of various types and sizes in diverse geographic regions of the United States are afforded attention and support;

(9) to support efforts at the State and regional levels to leverage museum resources and maximize museum services; and

(10) to assist museums in their civic engagement efforts to ensure that every person in the United States has access to high-quality museum services.

*([Pub. L. 94–462, title II, § 272](/us/pl/94/462/tII/s272), formerly § 271, as added [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(e) [title VII, § 702]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/e/tVII/s702), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–233](/us/stat/110/3009-233), 3009–302; renumbered § 272 and amended [Pub. L. 108–81, title III](/us/pl/108/81/tIII), §§ 301, 306(1), Sept. 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 1000](/us/stat/117/1000), 1002; [Pub. L. 111–340, title III, § 301](/us/pl/111/340/tIII/s301), Dec. 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 3603](/us/stat/124/3603); [Pub. L. 115–410, § 16](/us/pl/115/410/s16), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5419](/us/stat/132/5419).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 272 of Pub. L. 94–462](/us/pl/94/462/s272) was renumbered section 273 and is classified to [section 9172 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s9172).

#### Amendments

2018—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 16(1)](/us/pl/115/410/s16/1), (2), redesignated par. (2) as (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: “to encourage and support museums in carrying out their public service role of connecting the whole of society to the cultural, artistic, historical, natural, and scientific understandings that constitute our heritage;”.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 16(3)](/us/pl/115/410/s16/3), added par. (2). Former par. (2) redesignated (1).

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 16(4)](/us/pl/115/410/s16/4), inserted “diverse” before “cultural”.

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 16(5)](/us/pl/115/410/s16/5), substituted “as they serve their communities in new and different ways” for “as a result of their increasing use by the public”.

Par. (9). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 16(7)](/us/pl/115/410/s16/7), substituted “State and regional levels” for “State level” and “services; and” for “services.”

Par. (10). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 16(6)](/us/pl/115/410/s16/6), (8), added par. (10).

2010—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 111–340, § 301(1)](/us/pl/111/340/s301/1), inserted “through international, national, regional, State, and local networks and partnerships” after “services”.

Pars. (7) to (9). [Pub. L. 111–340, § 301(2)](/us/pl/111/340/s301/2)–(4), added pars. (7) to (9).

2003—[Pub. L. 108–81, § 301](/us/pl/108/81/s301), amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “It is the purpose of this subchapter—

“(1) to encourage and assist museums in their educational role, in conjunction with formal systems of elementary, secondary, and postsecondary education and with programs of nonformal education for all age groups;

“(2) to assist museums in modernizing their methods and facilities so that the museums are better able to conserve the cultural, historic, and scientific heritage of the United States; and

“(3) to ease the financial burden borne by museums as a result of their increasing use by the public.”
