---
title: "§ 5114. Use of Customs Service officers and employees for enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T46-S5114"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section5114"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(2)](/us/pl/99/509/tV/s5101/2), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1918](/us/stat/100/1918); [Pub. L. 101–595, title VI, § 603(4)](/us/pl/101/595/tVI/s603/4), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2993](/us/stat/104/2993).)"
---
# § 5114. Use of Customs Service officers and employees for enforcement

##### § 5114. Use of Customs Service officers and employees for enforcement

(a) With the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary may use an officer or employee of the United States Customs Service to enforce this chapter and the regulations prescribed under this chapter.

(b) The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of the Treasury before prescribing a regulation that affects the enforcement responsibilities of an officer or employee of the Customs Service.

*([Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(2)](/us/pl/99/509/tV/s5101/2), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1918](/us/stat/100/1918); [Pub. L. 101–595, title VI, § 603(4)](/us/pl/101/595/tVI/s603/4), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2993](/us/stat/104/2993).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

*Revised section 5114*

Source: Section (U.S. Code) 46 App. U.S.C. 86

Section 5114(a) authorizes the Secretary to use a Customs Service officer or employee to enforce load line requirements. The expected role of a Customs Service officer or employee in this regard is to ensure that a vessel is carrying a load line certificate and that the load line is not submerged.

Section 5114(b) requires the Secretary to consult with the Secretary of the Treasury before prescribing a regulation that affects the enforcement responsibilities of a Customs Service officer or employee.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1990—[Pub. L. 101–595](/us/pl/101/595) substituted “officers and employees” for “officers employees” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).
