---
title: "§ 1654. Contracts and grants for determination of unmet health care needs"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1654"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1654"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 504](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title V, § 501](/us/pl/100/713/tV/s501), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4822](/us/stat/102/4822); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 501(b)(2)](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s501/b/2), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4567](/us/stat/106/4567).)"
---
# § 1654. Contracts and grants for determination of unmet health care needs

##### § 1654. Contracts and grants for determination of unmet health care needs

(a) Authority Under authority of [section 13 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s13), the Secretary, through the Service, may enter into contracts with, or make grants to, urban Indian organizations situated in urban centers for which contracts have not been entered into, or grants have not been made, under [section 1653 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1653). The purpose of a contract or grant made under this section shall be the determination of the matters described in subsection (b)(1) in order to assist the Secretary in assessing the health status and health care needs of urban Indians in the urban center involved and determining whether the Secretary should enter into a contract or make a grant under [section 1653 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1653) with respect to the urban Indian organization which the Secretary has entered into a contract with, or made a grant to, under this section.

(b) Requirements Any contract entered into, or grant made, by the Secretary under this section shall include requirements that—

(1) the urban Indian organization successfully undertake to—

(A) document the health care status and unmet health care needs of urban Indians in the urban center involved; and

(B) with respect to urban Indians in the urban center involved, determine the matters described in clauses (2), (3), (4), and (8) of [section 1653(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1653/b); and

(2) the urban Indian organization complete performance of the contract, or carry out the requirements of the grant, within one year after the date on which the Secretary and such organization enter into such contract, or within one year after such organization receives such grant, whichever is applicable.

(c) Renewal The Secretary may not renew any contract entered into, or grant made, under this section.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 504](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title V, § 501](/us/pl/100/713/tV/s501), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4822](/us/stat/102/4822); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 501(b)(2)](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s501/b/2), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4567](/us/stat/106/4567).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1654, [Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 504](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s504), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1411](/us/stat/90/1411); [Pub. L. 96–537, § 7](/us/pl/96/537/s7), Dec. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 3178](/us/stat/94/3178), related to other contract requirements, prior to the general revision of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 100–713](/us/pl/100/713).

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–573, § 501(b)(2)(D)](/us/pl/102/573/s501/b/2/D), inserted “and grants” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 501(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/573/s501/b/2/A), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a) which read as follows: “Under authority of [section 13 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s13), the Secretary, through the Service, may enter into contracts with urban Indian organizations situated in urban centers for which contracts have not been entered into under [section 1653 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1653). The purpose of a contract under this section shall be the determination of the matters described in subsection (b)(1) of this section in order to assist the Secretary in assessing the health status and health care needs of urban Indians in the urban center involved and determining whether the Secretary should enter into a contract under [section 1653 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1653) with the urban Indian organization with which the Secretary has entered into a contract under this section.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 501(b)(2)(B)](/us/pl/102/573/s501/b/2/B), inserted “, or grant made,” after “contract entered into” in introductory provisions and substituted “, or carry out the requirements of the grant, within one year after the date on which the Secretary and such organization enter into such contract, or within one year after such organization receives such grant, whichever is applicable.” for “within one year after the date on which the Secretary and such organization enter into such contract.” in par. (2).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 501(b)(2)(C)](/us/pl/102/573/s501/b/2/C), inserted “, or grant made,” after “entered into”.
