---
title: "§ 2745. Fund transfer authority"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2745"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2745"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVII, § 4705](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVII/s4705), formerly div. C, title XXXVI, § 3624, Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2758](/us/stat/116/2758); renumbered div. D, title XLVII, § 4705, by [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(j)(2)(A)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/j/2/A)–(C), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1781](/us/stat/117/1781).)"
---
# § 2745. Fund transfer authority

##### § 2745. Fund transfer authority

(a) Transfer to other Federal agencies The Secretary of Energy may transfer funds authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy pursuant to a DOE national security authorization to other Federal agencies for the performance of work for which the funds were authorized. Funds so transferred may be merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the authorizations of the Federal agency to which the amounts are transferred.

(b) Transfer within Department of Energy

(1) Transfers permitted Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of Energy may transfer funds authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy pursuant to a DOE national security authorization to any other DOE national security authorization. Amounts of authorizations so transferred may be merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the same period as the authorization to which the amounts are transferred.

(2) Maximum amounts Not more than 5 percent of any such authorization may be transferred to another authorization under paragraph (1). No such authorization may be increased or decreased by more than 5 percent by a transfer under such paragraph.

(c) Limitations The authority provided by this subsection to transfer authorizations—

(1) may be used only to provide funds for items relating to activities necessary for national security programs that have a higher priority than the items from which the funds are transferred; and

(2) may not be used to provide funds for an item for which Congress has specifically denied funds.

(d) Notice to Congress The Secretary of Energy shall promptly notify the congressional defense committees of any transfer of funds to or from any DOE national security authorization.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVII, § 4705](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVII/s4705), formerly div. C, title XXXVI, § 3624, Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2758](/us/stat/116/2758); renumbered div. D, title XLVII, § 4705, by [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(j)(2)(A)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/j/2/A)–(C), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1781](/us/stat/117/1781).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 7386d of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7386d), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 108–136](/us/pl/108/136).
