---
title: "§ 41311. Gambling restrictions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S41311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section41311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–305, title II, § 205(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/305/tII/s205/a/1), Aug. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 1583](/us/stat/108/1583).)"
---
# § 41311. Gambling restrictions

##### § 41311. Gambling restrictions

(a) In General.— An air carrier or foreign air carrier may not install, transport, or operate, or permit the use of, any gambling device on board an aircraft in foreign air transportation.

(b) Definition.— In this section, the term “gambling device” means any machine or mechanical device (including gambling applications on electronic interactive video systems installed on board aircraft for passenger use)—

(1) which when operated may deliver, as the result of the application of an element of chance, any money or property; or

(2) by the operation of which a person may become entitled to receive, as the result of the application of an element of chance, any money or property.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–305, title II, § 205(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/305/tII/s205/a/1), Aug. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 1583](/us/stat/108/1583).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Study of Gambling on Commercial Aircraft

[Pub. L. 103–305, title II, § 205(b)](/us/pl/103/305/tII/s205/b), Aug. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 1583](/us/stat/108/1583), provided that the Secretary, not later than 1 year after Aug. 23, 1994, was to complete a study of the aviation safety effects of gambling applications on electronic interactive video systems installed on board aircraft for passenger use and the competitive implications of permitting foreign air carriers only, but not United States air carriers, to install, transport, and operate gambling applications on electronic interactive video systems on board aircraft on flights over international waters, and provided that the Secretary, within 5 days after the completion of the study, would submit a report to Congress on the results of the study.
