---
title: "§ 80116. Criminal penalty"
identifier: "USC-T49-S80116"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section80116"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1353](/us/stat/108/1353).)"
---
# § 80116. Criminal penalty

##### § 80116. Criminal penalty

(1) violates this chapter with intent to defraud; or

(2) knowingly or with intent to defraud—

(A) falsely makes, alters, or copies a bill of lading subject to this chapter;

(B) utters, publishes, or issues a falsely made, altered, or copied bill subject to this chapter; or

(C) negotiates or transfers for value a bill containing a false statement.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1353](/us/stat/108/1353).)*

In this section, before clause (1), the words “fined under title 18” are substituted for “a fine not exceeding $5,000”, and the words “shall be guilty of a misdemeanor” are omitted, for consistency with title 18. The words “upon conviction . . . punished for each offense” are omitted as unnecessary because of the restatement. Clause (1) is substituted for “or who, with intent to defraud, violates, or fails to comply with, or aids in any violation of, or failure to comply with any provision of this chapter” for clarity and because of 18:2. In clause (2)(A), the words “forges, counterfeits” are omitted as being included in “makes”. The word “copies” is substituted for “prints or photographs” for clarity. The words “bill of lading subject to this chapter” are substituted for “bill of lading purporting to represent goods received for shipment among the several States or with foreign nations” for clarity and for consistency with section 80102 of the revised title. Clause (2)(B) is substituted for “utters or publishes as true and genuine any such falsely altered, forged, counterfeited, falsely printed or photographed bill of lading . . . or issues” to eliminate unnecessary words and for consistency in this section. The words “knowing it to be falsely altered, forged, counterfeited, falsely printed or photographed” are omitted as unnecessary because of the restatement of the intent required to commit the crime. The words “or aids in making, altering, forging, counterfeiting, printing or photographing, or uttering or publishing the same . . . or aids in issuing or procuring the issue of” are omitted as surplus because of 18:2. The words “as to the receipt of the goods, or as to any other matter” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 80116 | 49 App.:121. | Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 415, § 41, 39 Stat. 544. |
