---
title: "§ 324. Consent of certain tribes; consent of individual Indians"
identifier: "USC-T25-S324"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section324"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Feb. 5, 1948, ch. 45, § 2](/us/act/1948-02-05/ch45/s2), [62 Stat. 18](/us/stat/62/18).)"
---
# § 324. Consent of certain tribes; consent of individual Indians

##### § 324. Consent of certain tribes; consent of individual Indians

No grant of a right-of-way over and across any lands belonging to a tribe organized under the Act of June 18, 1934 ([48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984)), as amended [[25 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t25/s5101) et seq.]; the Act of May 1, 1936 ([49 Stat. 1250](/us/stat/49/1250)); or the Act of June 26, 1936 ([49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967)), shall be made without the consent of the proper tribal officials. Rights-of-way over and across lands of individual Indians may be granted without the consent of the individual Indian owners if (1) the land is owned by more than one person, and the owners or owner of a majority of the interests therein consent to the grant; (2) the whereabouts of the owner of the land or an interest therein are unknown, and the owners or owner of any interests therein whose whereabouts are known, or a majority thereof, consent to the grant; (3) the heirs or devisees of a deceased owner of the land or an interest therein have not been determined, and the Secretary of the Interior finds that the grant will cause no substantial injury to the land or any owner thereof; or (4) the owners of interests in the land are so numerous that the Secretary finds it would be impracticable to obtain their consent, and also finds that the grant will cause no substantial injury to the land or any owner thereof.

*([Feb. 5, 1948, ch. 45, § 2](/us/act/1948-02-05/ch45/s2), [62 Stat. 18](/us/stat/62/18).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, is [act June 18, 1934, ch. 576](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576), [48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, which is classified generally to chapter 45 (§ 5101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

Act of May 1, 1936, referred to in text, is [act May 1, 1936, ch. 254](/us/act/1936-05-01/ch254), [49 Stat. 1250](/us/stat/49/1250), which was classified to sections 473a and 496 of this title, prior to repeal of section 496 by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 704(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s704/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2792](/us/stat/90/2792), and editorial reclassification of section 473a as [section 5119 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5119). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Act of June 26, 1936, referred to in text, is [act June 26, 1936, ch. 831](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967), popularly known as the Oklahoma Welfare Act, which was classified generally to subchapter VIII (§ 501 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 45A (§ 5201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5201) and Tables. Provisions of the Act relating to the revolving fund appear in [section 5206 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5206).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of the Interior relating to compliance with rights-of-way across Indian lands, issued under section 321 et seq. of this title with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(e), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, [93 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/93/1373), 1376, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, effective July 1, 1979, pursuant to Ex. Ord. No. 12142, § 1–101, June 21, 1979, 44 F.R. 36927, set out as a note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e), Commerce and Trade. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by [section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486/s3012/b), set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e). Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by [section 720d(f) of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s720d/f).
