---
title: "§ 2000c–4. Grants for inservice training in dealing with and for employment of specialists to advise in problems incident to desegregation; factors for consideration in making grants and fixing amounts, terms, and conditions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000c–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000c–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–352, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/88/352/tIV/s405), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 247](/us/stat/78/247); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)"
---
# § 2000c–4. Grants for inservice training in dealing with and for employment of specialists to advise in problems incident to desegregation; factors for consideration in making grants and fixing amounts, terms, and conditions

##### § 2000c–4. Grants for inservice training in dealing with and for employment of specialists to advise in problems incident to desegregation; factors for consideration in making grants and fixing amounts, terms, and conditions

(a) The Secretary is authorized, upon application of a school board, to make grants to such board to pay, in whole or in part, the cost of—

(1) giving to teachers and other school personnel inservice training in dealing with problems incident to desegregation, and

(2) employing specialists to advise in problems incident to desegregation.

(b) In determining whether to make a grant, and in fixing the amount thereof and the terms and conditions on which it will be made, the Secretary shall take into consideration the amount available for grants under this section and the other applications which are pending before him; the financial condition of the applicant and the other resources available to it; the nature, extent, and gravity of its problems incident to desegregation; and such other factors as he finds relevant.

*([Pub. L. 88–352, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/88/352/tIV/s405), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 247](/us/stat/78/247); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary”, meaning the Secretary of Education, substituted in text for “Commissioner” pursuant to sections 301(a)(1) and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441(a)(1) and 3507 of Title 20, Education, and which transferred all functions of Commissioner of Education to Secretary of Education.
