---
title: "§ 5207. Department of Defense"
identifier: "USC-T15-S5207"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section5207"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–697, § 8](/us/pl/100/697/s8), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4615](/us/stat/102/4615).)"
---
# § 5207. Department of Defense

##### § 5207. Department of Defense

(a) Focus of research In conformance with the Superconductivity Action Plan, the Secretary of Defense, in the superconductivity research and development activities of the Department of Defense, shall give emphasis to fundamental research, materials processing, and applications of new superconducting materials.

(b) Additional activities In conducting research under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall—

(1) systematically define the engineering parameters for high-temperature superconducting materials; and

(2) conduct the necessary development, engineering, and operational prototype testing considered appropriate to the overall mission of the Department of Defense. Such operational prototype testing shall, where appropriate, utilize criteria developed by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.

(c) Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency The Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency shall, in conformance with the Superconductivity Action Plan, conduct activities to—

(1) augment, as appropriate, basic and applied superconductivity research conducted in other Federal agencies and industry; and

(2) develop criteria for operational prototype testing within the Department of Defense.

*([Pub. L. 100–697, § 8](/us/pl/100/697/s8), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4615](/us/stat/102/4615).)*
