---
title: "§ 15902. Demonstration health projects"
identifier: "USC-T40-S15902"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section15902"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2248(a)](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2248/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3207](/us/stat/138/3207).)"
---
# § 15902. Demonstration health projects

##### § 15902. Demonstration health projects

(a) Purpose.— To demonstrate the value of adequate health facilities and services to the economic development of the region, a Commission may make grants for the planning, construction, equipment, and operation of demonstration health, nutrition, and child care projects to serve distressed areas (referred to in this section as a “demonstration health project”), including hospitals, regional health diagnostic and treatment centers, and other facilities and services necessary for the purposes of this section.

(b) Eligible Entities.— An entity eligible to receive a grant under this section is—

(1) an entity described in section 15501(a);

(2) an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001(a)](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a)));

(3) a hospital (as defined in section 1861 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 1395x](/us/usc/t42/s1395x))); or

(4) a critical access hospital (as defined in that section).

(c) Planning Grants.—

(1) In general.— A Commission may make grants for planning expenses necessary for the development and operation of demonstration health projects for the region served by the Commission.

(2) Maximum commission contribution.— The maximum Commission contribution for a demonstration health project that receives a grant under paragraph (1) shall be made in accordance with section 15501(d).

(3) Sources of assistance.— A grant under paragraph (1) may be provided entirely from amounts made available to carry out this section or in combination with amounts provided under other Federal grant programs.

(4) Federal share for grants under other federal grant programs.— Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the Federal share in other Federal grant programs, amounts made available to carry out this subsection may be used to increase the Federal share of another Federal grant up to the maximum contribution described in paragraph (2).

(d) Construction and Equipment Grants.—

(1) In general.— A grant under this section for construction or equipment of a demonstration health project may be used for—

(A) costs of construction;

(B) the acquisition of privately owned facilities—

(i) not operated for profit; or

(ii) previously operated for profit if the Commission finds that health services would not otherwise be provided in the area served by the facility if the acquisition is not made; and

(C) the acquisition of initial equipment.

(2) Standards for making grants.— A grant under paragraph (1)—

(A) shall be approved in accordance with section 15503; and

(B) shall not be incompatible with the applicable provisions of title VI of the Public Health Service Act ([42 U.S.C. 291](/us/usc/t42/s291) et seq.), the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 ([42 U.S.C. 15001](/us/usc/t42/s15001) et seq.), and other laws authorizing grants for the construction of health-related facilities, without regard to any provisions in those laws relating to appropriation authorization ceilings or to allotments among the States.

(3) Maximum commission contribution.— The maximum Commission contribution for a demonstration health project that receives a grant under paragraph (1) shall be made in accordance with section 15501(d).

(4) Sources of assistance.— A grant under paragraph (1) may be provided entirely from amounts made available to carry out this section or in combination with amounts provided under other Federal grant programs.

(5) Contribution to increased federal share for other federal grants.— Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the Federal share in another Federal grant program for the construction or equipment of a demonstration health project, amounts made available to carry out this subsection may be used to increase Federal grants for component facilities of a demonstration health project to a maximum of 90 percent of the cost of the facilities.

(e) Operation Grants.—

(1) In general.— A grant under this section for the operation of a demonstration health project may be used for—

(A) the costs of operation of the facility; and

(B) initial operating costs, including the costs of attracting, training, and retaining qualified personnel.

(2) Standards for making grants.— A grant for the operation of a demonstration health project shall not be made unless the facility funded by the grant is—

(A) publicly owned;

(B) owned by a public or private nonprofit organization;

(C) a private hospital described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of that Code; or

(D) a private hospital that provides a certain amount of uncompensated care, as determined by the Commission, and applies for the grant in partnership with a State, local government, or Indian Tribe.

(3) Maximum commission contribution.— The maximum Commission contribution for a demonstration health project that receives a grant under paragraph (1) shall be made in accordance with section 15501(d).

(4) Sources of assistance.— A grant under paragraph (1) may be provided entirely from amounts made available to carry out this section or in combination with amounts provided under other Federal grant programs for the operation of health-related facilities or the provision of health and child development services, including parts A and B of title IV and title XX of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq., 621 et seq., 1397 et seq.).

(5) Federal share.— Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the Federal share in the other Federal programs described in paragraph (4), amounts made available to carry out this subsection may be used to increase the Federal share of a grant under those programs up to the maximum contribution described in paragraph (3).

(f) Priority Health Programs.— If a Commission elects to make grants under this section, the Commission shall establish specific regional health priorities for such grants that address—

(1) addiction treatment and access to resources helping individuals in recovery;

(2) workforce shortages in the healthcare industry; or

(3) access to services for screening and diagnosing chronic health issues.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2248(a)](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2248/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3207](/us/stat/138/3207).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Public Health Service Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(2)(B), is [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), [58 Stat. 682](/us/stat/58/682). Title VI of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 291 et seq.) of chapter 6A of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 201 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.

The Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000, referred to in subsec. (d)(2)(B), is [Pub. L. 106–402](/us/pl/106/402), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/114/1677), which is classified principally to chapter 144 (§ 15001 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 15001 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15001) and Tables.

Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (e)(2)(C), is classified to [section 501 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501), Internal Revenue Code.

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (e)(4), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Parts A and B of title IV of the Act are classified generally to parts A (§ 601 et seq.) and B (§ 620 et seq.), respectively, of subchapter IV of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Title XX of the Act is classified generally to subchapter XX (§ 1397 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.
