---
title: "§ 4653. Department of Defense"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4653"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4653"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCIX, § 9903](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCIX/s9903), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4849](/us/stat/134/4849); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title II, § 217](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tII/s217), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1596](/us/stat/135/1596).)"
---
# § 4653. Department of Defense

##### § 4653. Department of Defense

(a) Department of Defense efforts

(1) In general Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purposes, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall establish a public-private partnership through which the Secretary shall work to incentivize the formation of one or more consortia of companies (or other such partnerships of private-sector entities, as appropriate) to ensure the development and production of measurably secure microelectronics, including integrated circuits, logic devices, memory, and the packaging and testing practices that support these microelectronic components by the Department of Defense, the intelligence community, critical infrastructure sectors, and other national security applications. Such incentives may include the use of grants under [section 4652 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4652), and providing incentives for the creation, expansion, or modernization of one or more commercially competitive and sustainable microelectronics manufacturing or advanced research and development facilities in the United States.

(2) Risk mitigation requirements A participant in a consortium formed with incentives under paragraph (1)—

(A) shall have the potential to enable design, perform fabrication, assembly, package, or test functions for microelectronics deemed critical to national security as defined by the National Security Advisor and the Secretary of Defense;

(B) may be a fabless company migrating its designs to the facility envisioned in paragraph (1) or migrating to an existing facility onshore;

(C) may be companies, including fabless companies and companies that procure large quantities of microelectronics, willing to co-invest to achieve the objectives set forth in paragraph (1);

(D) shall include management processes to identify and mitigate supply chain security risks; and

(E) shall be capable of providing microelectronic components that are consistent with applicable measurably secure supply chain and operational security standards established under section 224(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 ([Public Law 116–92](/us/pl/116/92)).

(3) National security considerations The Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence shall select participants for each consortium and or 11 So in original. partnership formed with incentives under paragraph (1). In selecting such participants, the Secretary and the Director may jointly consider whether the companies—

(A) have participated in previous programs and projects of the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, or the intelligence community, including—

(i) the Trusted Integrated Circuit program of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity;

(ii) trusted and assured microelectronics projects, as administered by the Department of Defense;

(iii) the Electronics Resurgence Initiative program of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency; or

(iv) relevant semiconductor research programs of the Advanced Research Projects Agency–Energy;

(B) have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to performing contracts for the Department of Defense and the intelligence community;

(C) are approved by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency or the Office of the Director of National Intelligence as presenting an acceptable security risk, taking into account supply chain assurance vulnerabilities, counterintelligence risks, and any risks presented by companies whose beneficial owners are located outside the United States; and

(D) are evaluated periodically for foreign ownership, control, or influence by a foreign entity of concern.

(4) Nontraditional defense contractors and commercial entities Arrangements entered into to carry out paragraph (1) shall be in such form as the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate to encourage industry participation of nontraditional defense contractors or commercial entities and may include a contract, a grant, a cooperative agreement, a commercial agreement, the use of other transaction authority under section 2371 22 See References in Text note below. of title 10 or another such arrangement.

(5) Implementation Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purposes, the Secretary of Defense—

(A) shall carry out paragraph (1) jointly through the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment; and

(B) may carry out paragraph (1) in collaboration with any such other component of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.

(6) Other initiatives

(A) Required initiatives Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purposes, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, as appropriate, may dedicate initiatives within the Department of Defense to carry out activities to advance radio frequency, mixed signal, radiation tolerant, and radiation hardened microelectronics that support national security and dual-use applications.

(B) Support plan required The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the heads of appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government, shall develop a plan, including assessment of resource requirements and designation of responsible officials, for the maintenance of capabilities to produce trusted and assured microelectronics to support current and legacy defense systems, other government systems essential for national security, and critical infrastructure of the United States, especially for items with otherwise limited commercial demand.

(C) Assessment of public private partnerships and activities In conjunction with the activities carried out under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into an agreement with the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine to undertake a study to make recommendations and provide policy options for optimal public-private partnerships and partnership activities, including an analysis of establishing a semiconductor manufacturing corporation to leverage private sector technical, managerial, and investment expertise, and private capital, as well as an assessment of and response to the industrial policies of other nations to support industries in similar critical technology sectors, and deliver such study to the congressional defense committees not later than October 1, 2022.

(7) Reports

(A) Report by Secretary of Defense Not later than 90 days after January 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the plans of the Secretary to carry out paragraphs (1) and (6).

(B) Biennial reports by Comptroller General of the United States Not later than one year after the date on which the Secretary submits the report required by subparagraph (A) and not less frequently than once every two years thereafter for a period of 10 years, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report on the activities carried out under this subsection.

(b) National network for microelectronics research and development

(1) In general Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purposes, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a national network for microelectronics research and development—

(A) to enable the laboratory to fabrication transition of microelectronics innovations in the United States; and

(B) to expand the global leadership in microelectronics of the United States.

(2) Activities The national network for microelectronics research and development shall—

(A) enable cost effective exploration of new materials, devices, and architectures, and prototyping in domestic facilities to safeguard domestic intellectual property;

(B) accelerate the transition of new technologies to domestic microelectronics manufacturers; and

(C) conduct other relevant activities deemed necessary by the Secretary of Defense for accomplishing the purposes of the national network for microelectronics research and development.

(3) Selection of entities

(A) In general In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, through a competitive process, select two or more entities to carry out the activities described in paragraph (2) as part of the network established under paragraph (1).

(B) Geographic diversity The Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, ensure that the entities selected under subparagraph (A) collectively represent the geographic diversity of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCIX, § 9903](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCIX/s9903), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4849](/us/stat/134/4849); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title II, § 217](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tII/s217), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1596](/us/stat/135/1596).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 224 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(E), is [section 224 of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/s224), which is set out as a note preceding [section 4501 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s4501), Armed Forces.

[Section 2371 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2371), referred to in subsec. (a)(4), was renumbered [section 4021 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s4021), Armed Forces, by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1841(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1841/b/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–81, § 1701(u)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/81/s1701/u/2/B), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2151](/us/stat/135/2151).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 117–81, § 217(1)](/us/pl/117/81/s217/1), substituted “shall” for “may” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 117–81, § 217(2)](/us/pl/117/81/s217/2), added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Congressional Defense Committees” Defined

For definition of “congressional defense committees” as the Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, see [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces, as made applicable by [section 3 of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s3), which is listed in a table under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101).
