---
title: "§ 1981. Advance payments"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1981"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1981"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 1002](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s1002), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2227](/us/stat/121/2227); [Pub. L. 111–145, § 2(d)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s2/d/1), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 51](/us/stat/124/51).)"
---
# § 1981. Advance payments

##### § 1981. Advance payments

During fiscal year 2008 and each succeeding fiscal year, following notification of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. the Chief of the Capitol Police may make payments in advance for obligations of the United States Capitol Police for subscription services if the Chief determines it to be more prompt, efficient, or economical to do so.

*([Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 1002](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s1002), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2227](/us/stat/121/2227); [Pub. L. 111–145, § 2(d)(1)](/us/pl/111/145/s2/d/1), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 51](/us/stat/124/51).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2008, which is div. H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008.

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–145](/us/pl/111/145) inserted “the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate” after “House of Representatives and the Senate,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–145, § 2(d)(2)](/us/pl/111/145/s2/d/2), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 51](/us/stat/124/51), provided that: “The amendment made by this subsection [amending this section] shall take effect 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 4, 2010] and apply to payments made on or after that effective date.”
