---
title: "§ 3609. Education and conciliation; conferences and consultations; reports"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3609"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3609"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–284, title VIII, § 809](/us/pl/90/284/tVIII/s809), Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 85](/us/stat/82/85).)"
---
# § 3609. Education and conciliation; conferences and consultations; reports

##### § 3609. Education and conciliation; conferences and consultations; reports

Immediately after April 11, 1968, the Secretary shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as in his judgment will further the purposes of this subchapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this subchapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement. He may pay per diem, travel, and transportation expenses for persons attending such conferences as provided in [section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703). He shall consult with State and local officials and other interested parties to learn the extent, if any, to which housing discrimination exists in their State or locality, and whether and how State or local enforcement programs might be utilized to combat such discrimination in connection with or in place of, the Secretary’s enforcement of this subchapter. The Secretary shall issue reports on such conferences and consultations as he deems appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 90–284, title VIII, § 809](/us/pl/90/284/tVIII/s809), Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 85](/us/stat/82/85).)*
