---
title: "§ 5914. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5914"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5914"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–27, § 15](/us/pl/119/27/s15), July 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 460](/us/stat/139/460).)"
---
# § 5914. Reports

##### § 5914. Reports

(a) Annual reporting requirement Beginning on the date that is 1 year after July 18, 2025, and annually thereafter, the primary Federal payment stablecoin regulators, in consultation with State payment stablecoin regulators, as necessary, shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Director of the Office of Financial Research a report, which may include a classified annex, if applicable, on the status of the payment stablecoin industry, including—

(1) a summary of trends in payment stablecoin activities;

(2) a summary of the number of applications for approval as a permitted payment stablecoin issuer under [section 5904 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5904), including aggregate approvals and rejections of applications; and

(3) a description of the potential financial stability risks posed to the safety and soundness of the broader financial system by payment stablecoin activities.

(b) FSOC report The Financial Stability Oversight Council shall incorporate the findings in the report under subsection (a) into the annual report of the Council required under [section 5322(a)(2)(N) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5322/a/2/N).

*([Pub. L. 119–27, § 15](/us/pl/119/27/s15), July 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 460](/us/stat/139/460).)*

#### Delayed Effective Date of Section

For delayed effective date of section, see Effective Date note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of the date that is 18 months after July 18, 2025, or the date that is 120 days after the date on which the primary Federal payment stablecoin regulators issue any final regulations implementing [Pub. L. 119–27](/us/pl/119/27), see [section 20 of Pub. L. 119–27](/us/pl/119/27/s20), set out as a note under [section 5901 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5901).
