---
title: "§ 6804a. Availability of Federal, State, and local recreation passes"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6804a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6804a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 805A](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s805A), as added [Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 321(a)](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s321/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2909](/us/stat/138/2909).)"
---
# § 6804a. Availability of Federal, State, and local recreation passes

##### § 6804a. Availability of Federal, State, and local recreation passes

(a) Establishment of program

(1) In general To improve the availability of Federal, State, and local outdoor recreation passes, the Secretaries are encouraged to coordinate with States and counties regarding the availability of Federal, State, and local recreation passes to allow a purchaser to buy a Federal recreation pass, State recreation pass, and local recreation pass in a single transaction.

(2) Included passes Passes covered by the program established under paragraph (1) include—

(A) an America the Beautiful—the National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass under [section 6804 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6804); and

(B) any pass covering any fees charged by participating States and counties for entrance and recreational use of parks and public land in the participating States.

(b) Agreements with States and counties

(1) In general The Secretaries, after consultation with the States and counties, may enter into agreements with States and counties to coordinate the availability of passes as described in subsection (a).

(2) Revenue from pass sales Agreements between the Secretaries, States, and counties entered into pursuant to this section shall ensure that—

(A) funds from the sale of State or local passes are transferred to the appropriate State agency or county government;

(B) funds from the sale of Federal passes are transferred to the appropriate Federal agency; and

(C) fund transfers are completed by the end of a fiscal year for all pass sales occurring during the fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 805A](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s805A), as added [Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 321(a)](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s321/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2909](/us/stat/138/2909).)*
