---
title: "§ 4724. Intergovernmental cooperation in recruiting and examining activities; potential employees, certification; payments for costs; credits to appropriation or fund for payment of expenses"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4724"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4724"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–648, title II, § 204](/us/pl/91/648/tII/s204), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1914](/us/stat/84/1914); 1978 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. Jan. 1, 1979, 43 F.R. 36037, [92 Stat. 3783](/us/stat/92/3783).)"
---
# § 4724. Intergovernmental cooperation in recruiting and examining activities; potential employees, certification; payments for costs; credits to appropriation or fund for payment of expenses

##### § 4724. Intergovernmental cooperation in recruiting and examining activities; potential employees, certification; payments for costs; credits to appropriation or fund for payment of expenses

(a) The Office may join, on a shared-costs basis, with State and local governments in cooperative recruiting and examining activities under such procedures and regulations as may jointly be agreed upon.

(b) The Office also may, on the written request of a State or local government and under such procedures as may be jointly agreed upon, certify to such governments from appropriate Federal registers the names of potential employees. The State or local government making the request shall pay the Office for the costs, as determined by the Office, of performing the service, and such payments shall be credited to the appropriation or fund from which the expenses were or are to be paid.

*([Pub. L. 91–648, title II, § 204](/us/pl/91/648/tII/s204), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1914](/us/stat/84/1914); 1978 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. Jan. 1, 1979, 43 F.R. 36037, [92 Stat. 3783](/us/stat/92/3783).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Office”, meaning Office of Personnel Management, substituted in text for “Commission”, meaning Civil Service Commission, pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1978, § 102, 43 F.R. 36037, [92 Stat. 3783](/us/stat/92/3783), set out under [section 1101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1101), Government Organization and Employees, which transferred functions vested by statute in Civil Service Commission and Chairman thereof to Director of Office of Personnel Management (except as otherwise specified), effective Jan. 1, 1979, as provided by section 1–102 of Ex. Ord. No. 12107, Dec. 28, 1978, 44 F.R. 1055, set out under [section 1101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
