---
title: "§ 3927a. Review by chief of mission"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3927a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3927a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. B, title IV, § 409](/us/pl/108/447/dB/tIV/s409), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 2904](/us/stat/118/2904); [Pub. L. 112–74, div. I, title VII, § 7034(n)](/us/pl/112/74/dI/tVII/s7034/n), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 1217](/us/stat/125/1217).)"
---
# § 3927a. Review by chief of mission

##### § 3927a. Review by chief of mission

(a) Review of staff element under chief of mission authority; approval; process The Secretary of State shall require each chief of mission to review, not less than once every 5 years, every staff element under chief of mission authority, including staff from other departments or agencies of the United States, and recommend approval or disapproval of each staff element. Each such review shall be conducted pursuant to a process established by the President for determining appropriate staffing at diplomatic missions and overseas constituent posts (commonly referred to as the “NSDD–38 process”).

(b) Actions by Secretary of State The Secretary of State, as part of the process established by the President referred to in subsection (a), shall take actions to carry out the recommendations made in each such review.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. B, title IV, § 409](/us/pl/108/447/dB/tIV/s409), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 2904](/us/stat/118/2904); [Pub. L. 112–74, div. I, title VII, § 7034(n)](/us/pl/112/74/dI/tVII/s7034/n), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 1217](/us/stat/125/1217).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005, and not as part of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2011—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–74](/us/pl/112/74) struck out subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Not later than 1 year after December 8, 2004, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit a report on such reviews that occurred during the previous 12 months, together with the Secretary’s recommendations regarding such reviews to the appropriate committees of Congress, the heads of all affected departments or agencies, and the Inspector General of the Department of State.”
