---
title: "§ 1621p. American Indians Into Psychology Program"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1621p"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1621p"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title II, § 217](/us/pl/94/437/tII/s217), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title II, § 213](/us/pl/102/573/tII/s213), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4555](/us/stat/106/4555); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1621p. American Indians Into Psychology Program

##### § 1621p. American Indians Into Psychology Program

(a) Grants authorized The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall make grants of not more than $300,000 to each of 9 colleges and universities for the purpose of developing and maintaining Indian psychology career recruitment programs as a means of encouraging Indians to enter the behavioral health field. These programs shall be located at various locations throughout the country to maximize their availability to Indian students and new programs shall be established in different locations from time to time.

(b) Quentin N. Burdick program grant The Secretary shall provide a grant authorized under subsection (a) to develop and maintain a program at the University of North Dakota to be known as the “Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Psychology Program”. Such program shall, to the maximum extent feasible, coordinate with the Quentin N. Burdick Indian health programs authorized under section 1616j(b) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program authorized under section 1616h(e) 1 of this title, and existing university research and communications networks.

(c) Regulations The Secretary shall issue regulations pursuant to this chapter for the competitive awarding of grants provided under this section.

(d) Conditions of grant Applicants under this section shall agree to provide a program which, at a minimum—

(1) provides outreach and recruitment for health professions to Indian communities including elementary, secondary, and accredited and accessible community colleges that will be served by the program;

(2) incorporates a program advisory board comprised of representatives from the tribes and communities that will be served by the program;

(3) provides summer enrichment programs to expose Indian students to the various fields of psychology through research, clinical, and experimental activities;

(4) provides stipends to undergraduate and graduate students to pursue a career in psychology;

(5) develops affiliation agreements with tribal colleges and universities, the Service, university affiliated programs, and other appropriate accredited and accessible entities to enhance the education of Indian students;

(6) to the maximum extent feasible, uses existing university tutoring, counseling, and student support services; and

(7) to the maximum extent feasible, employs qualified Indians in the program.

(e) Active duty service requirement The active duty service obligation prescribed under [section 254m of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s254m) shall be met by each graduate who receives a stipend described in subsection (d)(4) that is funded under this section. Such obligation shall be met by service—

(1) in an Indian health program;

(2) in a program assisted under subchapter IV; or

(3) in the private practice of psychology if, as determined by the Secretary, in accordance with guidelines promulgated by the Secretary, such practice is situated in a physician or other health professional shortage area and addresses the health care needs of a substantial number of Indians.

(f) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,700,000 for fiscal year 2010 and each fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title II, § 217](/us/pl/94/437/tII/s217), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title II, § 213](/us/pl/102/573/tII/s213), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4555](/us/stat/106/4555); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1616j(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616j/b), referred to in subsec. (b), does not authorize the Quentin N. Burdick Indian health programs. For provisions authorizing the Quentin N. Burdick Indian Health Programs, see [section 1616g(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616g/b).

[Section 1616h(e) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616h/e), referred to in subsec. (b), does not authorize the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program. For provisions authorizing the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program, see [section 1616e(e) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616e/e).

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400), known as the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on section 132 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section authorized Secretary to provide grants to at least 3 colleges and universities for purpose of developing and maintaining American Indian psychology career recruitment programs to encourage Indians to enter mental health field.
