---
title: "§ 2119. Failure of selection for promotion"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2119"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2119"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 88–130, § 1(10)(C)](/us/pl/88/130/s1/10/C), Sept. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 181](/us/stat/77/181), § 262; amended [Pub. L. 112–213, title II, § 208(c)](/us/pl/112/213/tII/s208/c), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/126/1549); renumbered § 2119 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 112(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4216](/us/stat/132/4216), 4240.)"
---
# § 2119. Failure of selection for promotion

##### § 2119. Failure of selection for promotion

An officer, other than an officer serving in the grade of captain, who is, or is senior to, the junior officer in the promotion zone established for his grade under [section 2111 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2111), fails of selection if he is not selected for promotion by the selection board which considered him, or if having been recommended for promotion by the board, his name is thereafter removed from the report of the board by the President.

*(Added [Pub. L. 88–130, § 1(10)(C)](/us/pl/88/130/s1/10/C), Sept. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 181](/us/stat/77/181), § 262; amended [Pub. L. 112–213, title II, § 208(c)](/us/pl/112/213/tII/s208/c), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/126/1549); renumbered § 2119 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 112(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4216](/us/stat/132/4216), 4240.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 2111” for “section 256”.

[Pub. L. 115–282, § 112(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s112/b), renumbered [section 262 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s262) as this section.

2012—[Pub. L. 112–213](/us/pl/112/213) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section consisted of subsecs. (a) and (b) describing failure of selection for promotion with an exception made if an officer was not considered because of administrative error.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–213](/us/pl/112/213) effective Dec. 20, 2012, with provision for convening a special selection board for certain errors occurring on or after the date that is 1 year before Dec. 20, 2012, see [section 208(e)(1) of Pub. L. 112–213](/us/pl/112/213/s208/e/1), set out as a note under [section 2118 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2118).

#### Placement Out of Line of Promotion Prior to September 24, 1963

[Pub. L. 88–130, § 2(a)](/us/pl/88/130/s2/a), (b), Sept. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 190](/us/stat/77/190), provided that: “(a) Officers who have been placed permanently out of line of promotion under laws and regulations of the Secretary in effect the day before the effective date of this Act [Sept. 24, 1963] shall be considered as having failed of selection for promotion to the next higher grade for the second time on the day before the effective date of this Act, and shall be subject to the provisions of sections 282 through 285 [now 2142 through 2145] of title 14, United States Code, as appropriate. No officer shall be separated from the service under the above provisions prior to the last day of the sixth calendar month following the effective date of this Act. “(b) Officers who have been placed temporarily out of line of promotion for appointment for temporary service under laws and regulations of the Secretary in effect the day before the effective date of this Act [Sept. 24, 1963] shall be considered as having once failed of selection for promotion to the next higher grade.”
