---
title: "§ 12573. Establishment of program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12573"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12573"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title XX, § 200204](/us/pl/103/322/tXX/s200204), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2058](/us/stat/108/2058).)"
---
# § 12573. Establishment of program

##### § 12573. Establishment of program

(a) Use of allotment

(1) In general A State that receives an allotment pursuant to [section 12572 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12572) shall use the allotment to pay the Federal share of the costs of—

(A) awarding scholarships to in-service law enforcement personnel to enable such personnel to seek further education; and

(B) providing—

(i) full-time employment in summer; or

(ii) part-time (not to exceed 20 hours per week) employment for a period not to exceed 1 year.

(2) Employment The employment described in paragraph (1)(B)—

(A) shall be provided by State and local law enforcement agencies for students who are juniors or seniors in high school or are enrolled in an institution of higher education and who demonstrate an interest in undertaking a career in law enforcement;

(B) shall not be in a law enforcement position; and

(C) shall consist of performing meaningful tasks that inform students of the nature of the tasks performed by law enforcement agencies.

(b) Payments; Federal share; non-Federal share

(1) Payments Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Director shall pay to each State that receives an allotment under [section 12572 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12572) the Federal share of the cost of the activities described in the application submitted pursuant to section 12576 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(2) Federal share The Federal share shall not exceed 60 percent.

(3) Non-Federal share The non-Federal share of the cost of scholarships and student employment provided under this part shall be supplied from sources other than the Federal Government.

(c) Responsibilities of Director The Director shall be responsible for the administration of the programs conducted pursuant to this part and shall, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education, issue rules to implement this part.

(d) Administrative expenses A State that receives an allotment under [section 12572 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12572) may reserve not more than 8 percent of the allotment for administrative expenses.

(e) Special rule A State that receives an allotment under [section 12572 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12572) shall ensure that each scholarship recipient under this part be compensated at the same rate of pay and benefits and enjoy the same rights under applicable agreements with labor organizations and under State and local law as other law enforcement personnel of the same rank and tenure in the office of which the scholarship recipient is a member.

(f) Supplementation of funding Funds received under this part shall only be used to supplement, and not to supplant, Federal, State, or local efforts for recruitment and education of law enforcement personnel.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title XX, § 200204](/us/pl/103/322/tXX/s200204), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2058](/us/stat/108/2058).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 12576 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12576), referred to in subsec. (b)(1), was in the original “section 200203”, and was translated as reading “section 200207”, meaning [section 200207 of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s200207), to reflect the probable intent of Congress, because [section 200203 of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s200203), which is classified to [section 12572 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12572), does not provide for submission of applications, and section 12576 does so provide.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14113 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14113), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
