---
title: "§ 3972. Special differentials"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3972"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3972"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 412](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s412), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/94/2092); [Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 139(6)](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s139/6), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 398](/us/stat/108/398); [Pub. L. 114–323, title II, § 206](/us/pl/114/323/tII/s206), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1917](/us/stat/130/1917).)"
---
# § 3972. Special differentials

##### § 3972. Special differentials

(a) Additional work requirements The Secretary may pay special differentials, in addition to compensation otherwise authorized, to Foreign Service officers who are required because of the nature of their assignments to perform additional work on a regular basis in substantial excess of normal requirements.

(b) Salary limitations The Inspector General of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) shall limit the payment of special differentials to USAID Foreign Service criminal investigators to levels at which the aggregate of basic pay and special differential for any pay period would equal, for such criminal investigators, the bi-weekly pay limitations on premium pay regularly placed on other criminal investigators within the Federal law enforcement community. This provision shall be retroactive to January 1, 2013.

(c) Compensatory time off Nothing in this chapter, or in subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5 shall preclude the granting of compensatory time off for Foreign Service officers.

*([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 412](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s412), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/94/2092); [Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 139(6)](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s139/6), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 398](/us/stat/108/398); [Pub. L. 114–323, title II, § 206](/us/pl/114/323/tII/s206), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1917](/us/stat/130/1917).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–323](/us/pl/114/323) added subsec. (b).

1994—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) struck out subsec. (b) which read as follows: “Before implementing any proposal to limit either the number of Foreign Service officers who may receive a special differential under subsection (a) of this section or the amounts of such special differentials, the Secretary shall submit such proposal to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.”
