---
title: "§ 2257. Reports on conditions of institutions receiving loans or deposits"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2257"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2257"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–181, title V, § 5](/us/pl/92/181/tV/s5).22, formerly § 5.23, Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 624](/us/stat/85/624); renumbered § 5.22, [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 203(b)](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s203/b), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1694](/us/stat/99/1694).)"
---
# § 2257. Reports on conditions of institutions receiving loans or deposits

##### § 2257. Reports on conditions of institutions receiving loans or deposits

The executive departments, boards, commissions, and independent establishments of the Government of the United States, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Reserve banks are severally authorized under such conditions as they may prescribe, upon request of the Farm Credit Administration, to make available to it or to any institution of the System in confidence all reports, records, or other information relating to the condition of any organization to which such institution of the System has made or contemplates making loan or for which it has or contemplates discounting paper, or which it is using or contemplates using as a custodian of securities or other credit instruments, or a depository. The Federal Reserve banks in their capacity as depositories, agents, and custodians for bonds, debentures, and other obligations issued by the banks of the System or book entries thereof are also authorized and directed, upon request of the Farm Credit Administration, to make available for audit by farm credit examiners all appropriate books, accounts, financial records, files, and other papers.

*([Pub. L. 92–181, title V, § 5](/us/pl/92/181/tV/s5).22, formerly § 5.23, Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 624](/us/stat/85/624); renumbered § 5.22, [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 203(b)](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s203/b), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1694](/us/stat/99/1694).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5.22 of [Pub. L. 92–181](/us/pl/92/181) was renumbered section 5.21 and is classified to [section 2256 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2256).
