---
title: "§ 3352d. Reports on reciprocity for security clearances inside of departments and agencies"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3352d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3352d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVI, § 6608](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVI/s6608), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2216](/us/stat/133/2216).)"
---
# § 3352d. Reports on reciprocity for security clearances inside of departments and agencies

##### § 3352d. Reports on reciprocity for security clearances inside of departments and agencies

(a) Reports to Security Executive Agent The head of each Federal department or agency shall submit an annual report to the Security Executive Agent that, with respect to the period covered by the report—

(1) identifies the number of individuals whose security clearances took more than 2 weeks for reciprocity recognition after such individuals move to another part of such department or agency; and

(2) breaks out the information described in paragraph (1) by type of clearance and the reasons for any delays.

(b) Annual report Not less frequently than once each year, the Security Executive Agent shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and make available to industry partners a report that summarizes the information received pursuant to subsection (b) during the period covered by such report.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVI, § 6608](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVI/s6608), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2216](/us/stat/133/2216).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Security Executive Agent”, “reciprocity”, and “appropriate congressional committees”, referred to in text, see [section 3352 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3352).
