---
title: "§ 2703. Orders of Secretary to egg producers, etc"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–428, § 4](/us/pl/93/428/s4), Oct. 1, 1974, [88 Stat. 1172](/us/stat/88/1172).)"
---
# § 2703. Orders of Secretary to egg producers, etc

##### § 2703. Orders of Secretary to egg producers, etc.

To effectuate the declared policy of this chapter, the Secretary shall, subject to the provisions of this chapter, issue and from time to time amend, orders applicable to persons engaged in the hatching and/or sale of egg-type baby chicks and started pullets, persons engaged in the production of commercial eggs and persons who receive or otherwise acquire eggs from such persons and who process, prepare for market, or market such eggs, including eggs of their own production, and persons engaged in the purchase, sale or processing of spent fowl. Such orders shall be applicable to all production or marketing areas, or both, in the United States.

*([Pub. L. 93–428, § 4](/us/pl/93/428/s4), Oct. 1, 1974, [88 Stat. 1172](/us/stat/88/1172).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Amendment of Egg Promotion and Research Order

[Pub. L. 103–188, § 5](/us/pl/103/188/s5), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2257](/us/stat/107/2257), provided that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law: “(1) In general.—The Secretary of Agriculture shall issue amendments to the egg promotion and research order issued under the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act ([7 U.S.C. 2701](/us/usc/t7/s2701) et seq.) to implement the amendments made by this Act [see Short Title of 1993 Amendment note set out under [section 2701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2701)]. The amendments shall be issued after public notice and opportunity for comment in accordance with [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553), United States Code, and without regard to sections 556 and 557 of such title. The Secretary shall issue the proposed amendments to the order not later than 80 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 14, 1993]. “(2) Effective date.—The amendments to the egg promotion and research order required by paragraph (1) shall become effective not later than—“(A) 30 days after the proposed amendments are issued; or “(B) if the Director of the Office of Management and Budget determines that the amendments are a significant action that requires review by the Director, 50 days after the proposed amendments are issued. “(3) Referendum.—The amendments referred to in paragraph (2) shall not be subject to a referendum conducted under the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act.”
