---
title: "§ 5505. Unlawful activities"
identifier: "USC-T16-S5505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section5505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–43, title I, § 106](/us/pl/104/43/tI/s106), Nov. 3, 1995, [109 Stat. 371](/us/stat/109/371).)"
---
# § 5505. Unlawful activities

##### § 5505. Unlawful activities

(1) to use a high seas fishing vessel on the high seas in contravention of international conservation and management measures described in [section 5504(e) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s5504/e);

(2) to use a high seas fishing vessel on the high seas, unless the vessel has on board a valid permit issued under [section 5503 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s5503);

(3) to use a high seas fishing vessel in violation of the conditions or restrictions of a permit issued under [section 5503 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s5503);

(4) to falsify any information required to be reported, communicated, or recorded pursuant to this chapter or any regulation issued under this chapter, or to fail to submit in a timely fashion any required information, or to fail to report to the Secretary immediately any change in circumstances that has the effect of rendering any such information false, incomplete, or misleading;

(5) to refuse to permit an authorized officer to board a high seas fishing vessel subject to such person’s control for purposes of conducting any search or inspection in connection with the enforcement of this chapter or any regulation issued under this chapter;

(6) to forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with an authorized officer in the conduct of any search or inspection described in paragraph (5);

(7) to resist a lawful arrest or detention for any act prohibited by this section;

(8) to interfere with, delay, or prevent, by any means, the apprehension, arrest, or detection of another person, knowing that such person has committed any act prohibited by this section;

(9) to ship, transport, offer for sale, sell, purchase, import, export, or have custody, control, or possession of, any living marine resource taken or retained in violation of this chapter or any regulation or permit issued under this chapter; or

(10) to violate any provision of this chapter or any regulation or permit issued under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 104–43, title I, § 106](/us/pl/104/43/tI/s106), Nov. 3, 1995, [109 Stat. 371](/us/stat/109/371).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 120 days after Nov. 3, 1995, see [section 111 of Pub. L. 104–43](/us/pl/104/43/s111), set out as a note under [section 5501 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s5501).
