---
title: "§ 1736. Shared civil penalties"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1736"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1736"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–451, title II, § 206](/us/pl/97/451/tII/s206), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2460](/us/stat/96/2460); [Pub. L. 113–76, div. G, title I, § 121](/us/pl/113/76/dG/tI/s121), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 314](/us/stat/128/314).)"
---
# § 1736. Shared civil penalties

##### § 1736. Shared civil penalties

An amount equal to 50 per centum of any civil penalty collected by the Federal Government under this chapter resulting from activities conducted by a State or Indian tribe pursuant to a cooperative agreement under [section 1732 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1732) or a State under a delegation under [section 1735 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1735), shall be payable to such State or tribe. Any payments under this section shall be reduced by an amount equal to any payments provided or due to such State or Indian tribe under the cooperative agreement or delegation, as applicable, during the fiscal year in which the civil penalty is received, up to the total amount provided or due for that fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 97–451, title II, § 206](/us/pl/97/451/tII/s206), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2460](/us/stat/96/2460); [Pub. L. 113–76, div. G, title I, § 121](/us/pl/113/76/dG/tI/s121), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 314](/us/stat/128/314).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76) substituted “Any payments under this section shall be reduced by an amount equal to any payments provided or due to such State or Indian tribe under the cooperative agreement or delegation, as applicable, during the fiscal year in which the civil penalty is received, up to the total amount provided or due for that fiscal year.” for “Such amount shall be deducted from any compensation due such State or Indian tribe under [section 1732 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1732) or such State under [section 1735 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1735).”
