---
title: "§ 3371a. Assessment of foreign intelligence threats to Federal elections"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3371a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3371a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXV, § 6503](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXV/s6503), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/133/2203); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. G, title LXXI, § 7143(d)(7)](/us/pl/117/263/dG/tLXXI/s7143/d/7), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3664](/us/stat/136/3664).)"
---
# § 3371a. Assessment of foreign intelligence threats to Federal elections

##### § 3371a. Assessment of foreign intelligence threats to Federal elections

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the congressional intelligence committees;

(B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and

(C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.

(2) Congressional leadership The term “congressional leadership” includes the following:

(A) The majority leader of the Senate.

(B) The minority leader of the Senate.

(C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.

(D) The minority leader of the House of Representatives.

(3) Security vulnerability The term “security vulnerability” has the meaning given such term in [section 650 of title 6](/us/usc/t6/s650).

(b) In general The Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security Agency, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of other relevant elements of the intelligence community, shall—

(1) commence not later than 1 year before any regularly scheduled Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, and complete not later than 180 days before such election, an assessment of security vulnerabilities of State election systems; and

(2) not later than 180 days before any regularly scheduled Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, submit a report on such security vulnerabilities and an assessment of foreign intelligence threats to the election to—

(A) congressional leadership; and

(B) the appropriate congressional committees.

(c) Update Not later than 90 days before any regularly scheduled Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, the Director of National Intelligence shall—

(1) update the assessment of foreign intelligence threats to that election; and

(2) submit the updated assessment to—

(A) congressional leadership; and

(B) the appropriate congressional committees.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXV, § 6503](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXV/s6503), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/133/2203); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. G, title LXXI, § 7143(d)(7)](/us/pl/117/263/dG/tLXXI/s7143/d/7), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3664](/us/stat/136/3664).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) substituted “[section 650 of title 6](/us/usc/t6/s650)” for “[section 1501 of title 6](/us/usc/t6/s1501)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “congressional intelligence committees” and “intelligence community”, referred to in text, see [section 5003 of div. E of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/dE/s5003), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
