---
title: "§ 410cc–22. Acquisition of property"
identifier: "USC-T16-S410cc–22"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section410cc–22"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–290, title II, § 202](/us/pl/95/290/tII/s202), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 293](/us/stat/92/293); [Pub. L. 110–229, title III, § 312(2)](/us/pl/110/229/tIII/s312/2), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 769](/us/stat/122/769); [Pub. L. 112–182, § 2](/us/pl/112/182/s2), Oct. 5, 2012, [126 Stat. 1420](/us/stat/126/1420).)"
---
# § 410cc–22. Acquisition of property

##### § 410cc–22. Acquisition of property

(a) Specified property; manner of acquisition

(1) The Secretary is authorized to acquire the properties designated in paragraph (2) of this subsection, or any interest therein, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, condemnation, or otherwise. Any property or interest therein owned by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation. The Secretary may initiate condemnation proceedings under this paragraph only after making every reasonable effort to acquire property through negotiations and purchase, and consulting with the Commission (if established) and the city council of Lowell.

(2) The properties referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection are the following:

(A) The Linus Childs House, 63 Kirk Street.

(B) The H and H Paper Company (commonly referred to as Boott Mill Boarding House), 42 French Street.

(C) Old City Hall, 226 Merrimack Street.

(D) Merrimack Gatehouse, 269 Merrimack Street.

(E) The Wannalancit Textile Company, 562 Suffolk Street.

(F) The structures containing the Jade Pagoda and Solomon’s Yard Goods, 210 and 200 Merrimack Street.

(G) The properties shown on the map identified in section 410cc–11(a)(3) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title as follows:

(i) 91 Pevey Street.

(ii) The portion of 607 Middlesex Place.

(iii) Eagle Court.

(iv) The portion of 50 Payne Street.

(v) 726 Broadway.

(b) Other property; criteria for acquisition; manner of acquisition Until the date on which the Commission conducts its first meeting, the Secretary may acquire any property within the park or preservation district not designated in subsection (a)(2) of this section, or any interest therein, if such property—

and would be subject to demolition or major alteration in a manner inconsistent with the purposes of this subchapter unless acquired by the Secretary. Such property may be acquired only as provided in subsection (a)(1) of this section.

(1) is identified in the report of the Lowell Historical Canal District Commission as a property which should be preserved, restored, managed, developed, or maintained in a manner consistent with the purpose of this subchapter;

(2) is listed in the National Register of Historic Places, as maintained by the Secretary pursuant to chapter 3021 and [section 320102(c) of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s320102/c); or

(3) is determined by the Secretary to be of national significance;

(c) Easements; manner of acquisition The Secretary may acquire easements within the park for the purpose of carrying out this subchapter. Such easements may be acquired only as provided in subsection (a)(1) of this section.

(d) Exchange of land or interest in land

(1) The Secretary may exchange any land or interest in land within the boundaries of the park for any land or interest in land owned by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the city of Lowell, or the University of Massachusetts Building Authority.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), an exchange under this subsection shall be subject to the laws, regulations, and policies applicable to exchanges of land administered by the National Park Service and any other terms and conditions that the Secretary determines to be necessary to protect the interests of the United States.

(3) Where facilities or infrastructure required for the management and operation of the Lowell National Historical Park exists on the Federal land to be exchanged, and the non-Federal land or interest in land to be exchanged is not of equal value, the values shall be equalized by the payment of cash to the Secretary. The Secretary shall not be required to equalize the values of any exchange conducted under this subsection if the land or interest in land received by the Federal Government exceeds the value of the Federal land or interest in land exchanged.

*([Pub. L. 95–290, title II, § 202](/us/pl/95/290/tII/s202), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 293](/us/stat/92/293); [Pub. L. 110–229, title III, § 312(2)](/us/pl/110/229/tIII/s312/2), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 769](/us/stat/122/769); [Pub. L. 112–182, § 2](/us/pl/112/182/s2), Oct. 5, 2012, [126 Stat. 1420](/us/stat/126/1420).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 410cc–11(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s410cc–11/a/3), referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(G), was in the original “subsection (101)(a)(3)” and was translated as meaning [section 101(a)(3) of Pub. L. 95–290](/us/pl/95/290/s101/a/3), which is classified to [section 410cc–11(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s410cc–11/a/3), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

In subsec. (b)(2), “chapter 3021 and [section 320102(c) of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s320102/c)” substituted for “section 101(a) of the Act entitled ‘An Act to establish a program for the preservation of additional historic properties throughout the Nation, and for other purposes’, approved October 15, 1966 ([16 U.S.C. 470a](/us/usc/t16/s470a)), and section 2(b) of the Act entitled ‘An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes’, approved August 21, 1935 ([16 U.S.C. 462](/us/usc/t16/s462))” on authority of [Pub. L. 113–287, § 6(e)](/us/pl/113/287/s6/e), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3272](/us/stat/128/3272), which Act enacted Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

#### Amendments

2012—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 112–182](/us/pl/112/182) added subsec. (d).

2008—Subsec. (a)(2)(G). [Pub. L. 110–229](/us/pl/110/229) added subpar. (G).
