---
title: "§ 8241. Navy ration: persons entitled to"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8241"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8241"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 379](/us/stat/70A/379), § 6081; [Pub. L. 87–649, § 5(c)](/us/pl/87/649/s5/c), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 494](/us/stat/76/494); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VI, § 602(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tVI/s602/b/2), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1772](/us/stat/111/1772); renumbered § 8241, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(b)(8)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/b/8), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1835](/us/stat/132/1835).)"
---
# § 8241. Navy ration: persons entitled to

##### § 8241. Navy ration: persons entitled to

(a) Each enlisted member of the naval service is entitled to a Navy ration for each day that he is on active duty, including each day that he is on leave.

(b) Each midshipman is entitled to a Navy ration for each day that he is on active duty, including each day that he is on leave.

(c) The Secretary of the Navy may prescribe regulations stating the conditions under which the ration shall be allowed under subsection (b).

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 379](/us/stat/70A/379), § 6081; [Pub. L. 87–649, § 5(c)](/us/pl/87/649/s5/c), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 494](/us/stat/76/494); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VI, § 602(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tVI/s602/b/2), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1772](/us/stat/111/1772); renumbered § 8241, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(b)(8)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/b/8), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1835](/us/stat/132/1835).)*

So much of [34 U.S.C. 901a](/us/usc/t34/s901a) as authorizes a commuted ration for enlisted members of the naval service under conditions and at rates prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy is superseded by § 301 of the Career Compensation Act of 1949 ([37 U.S.C. 251](/us/usc/t37/s251)). That section established a basic allowance for subsistence for enlisted members entitled to basic pay who are not subsisting at Government expense and prescribes the conditions under which the basic allowance for subsistence shall be paid and the amount of the allowance. Pursuant to Executive Order No. 10119, March 30, 1950, 15 F.R. 1757, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to make supplemental regulations to carry out the provisions of § 301. The words “or to a per diem in place of subsistence” are inserted to reflect the subsistence allowance authorized by § 303(a) of the Career Compensation Act of 1949 ([37 U.S.C. 253a](/us/usc/t37/s253a)) to members in travel status.

In subsection (a) reference to the Coast and Geodetic Survey is omitted since there are no enlisted personnel in that service, and reference to the Coast Guard is omitted as covered by [14 U.S.C. 478](/us/usc/t14/s478).

In subsections (a) and (b) the words “or furlough therefrom” are omitted as surplusage, and the words “for each day” are inserted to make clear the fact that a ration is a daily allowance of food and that, in subsection (b), the commuted ration is credited on a daily basis. The words “and cadets” are omitted as there are no cadets in the Navy or Marine Corps entitled to a Navy ration. Aviation cadets are entitled to the basic allowance for subsistence prescribed for officers ([34 U.S.C. 850c](/us/usc/t34/s850c)).

In subsection (c) the words “prescribed by law” and “in accordance with law” are omitted as surplusage.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6081 | 34 U.S.C. 901a (1st 2 sentences). | Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 756, § 17(a) (1st 2 sentences), 60 Stat. 855. |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 421g (b). | Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 756, § 40(b), 60 Stat. 858. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 6081 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s6081) as this section.

1997—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) substituted “Each enlisted member” for “Except when entitled to a basic allowance for subsistence or to a per diem in place of subsistence, each enlisted member”.

1962—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649) struck out provisions which permitted payment of the commuted value of the ration in money. See [section 422(b) of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s422/b), Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649) struck out provisions which permitted the Secretary to prescribe regulations for the allowance of the commuted value of the ration. See [section 422(b) of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s422/b), Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Effective Date of 1997 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) effective Jan. 1, 1998, see [section 602(g) of Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85/s602/g), set out as a note under [section 402 of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s402), Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services.

#### Effective Date of 1962 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649) effective Nov. 1, 1962, see [section 15 of Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649/s15), set out as an Effective Date note preceding [section 101 of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s101), Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services.
