---
title: "§ 1734. Hospital and nursing home care and medical services in the United States"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1734"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1734"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–22, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/96/22/tI/s106/a), June 13, 1979, [93 Stat. 53](/us/stat/93/53), § 634; renumbered § 1734 and amended [Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83), §§ 4(a)(3), (4), (b)(1), (2)(E), 5(a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404–406](/us/stat/105/404-406); [Pub. L. 106–377, § 1(a)(1) [title V, § 501(b)]](/us/pl/106/377/s1/a/1/tV/s501/b), Oct. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/114/1441), 1441A–57; [Pub. L. 108–170, title I, § 103](/us/pl/108/170/tI/s103), Dec. 6, 2003, [11"
---
# § 1734. Hospital and nursing home care and medical services in the United States

##### § 1734. Hospital and nursing home care and medical services in the United States

(a) The Secretary shall furnish hospital and nursing home care and medical services to any individual described in subsection (b) in the same manner, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as apply to the furnishing of such care and services to individuals who are veterans as defined in [section 101(2) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s101/2). Any disability of an individual described in subsection (b) that is a service-connected disability for purposes of this subchapter (as provided for under [section 1735(2) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1735/2)) shall be considered to be a service-connected disability for purposes of furnishing care and services under the preceding sentence.

(b) Subsection (a) applies to any individual who is a Commonwealth Army veteran or new Philippine Scout and who—

(1) is residing in the United States; and

(2) is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–22, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/96/22/tI/s106/a), June 13, 1979, [93 Stat. 53](/us/stat/93/53), § 634; renumbered § 1734 and amended [Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83), §§ 4(a)(3), (4), (b)(1), (2)(E), 5(a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404–406](/us/stat/105/404-406); [Pub. L. 106–377, § 1(a)(1) [title V, § 501(b)]](/us/pl/106/377/s1/a/1/tV/s501/b), Oct. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/114/1441), 1441A–57; [Pub. L. 108–170, title I, § 103](/us/pl/108/170/tI/s103), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2044](/us/stat/117/2044).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior section 1734 was renumbered [section 3534 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3534).

Another prior section 1734, [Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1199](/us/stat/72/1199), as amended by [Pub. L. 89–358, § 4(m)](/us/pl/89/358/s4/m), Mar. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 25](/us/stat/80/25), related to overcharging of eligible persons by educational institutions, prior to the general amendment of this section by [Pub. L. 92–540, title III, § 313](/us/pl/92/540/tIII/s313), Oct. 24, 1972, [86 Stat. 1084](/us/stat/86/1084). See [section 3690 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3690).

#### Amendments

2003—[Pub. L. 108–170](/us/pl/108/170) amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(a) The Secretary, within the limits of Department facilities, may furnish hospital and nursing home care and medical services to Commonwealth Army veterans and new Philippine Scouts for the treatment of the service-connected disabilities of such veterans and scouts.

“(b) An individual who is in receipt of benefits under subchapter II or IV of chapter 11 of this title paid by reason of service described in [section 107(a) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s107/a) who is residing in the United States and who is a citizen of, or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in, the United States shall be eligible for hospital and nursing home care and medical services in the same manner as a veteran, and the disease or disability for which such benefits are paid shall be considered to be a service-connected disability for purposes of this chapter.”

2000—[Pub. L. 106–377](/us/pl/106/377) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), renumbered [section 634 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s634) as this section.

[Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator”.

[Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), substituted “Department” for “Veterans’ Administration”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 96–22](/us/pl/96/22/s107), set out as an Effective Date of 1979 Amendment note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1701).
