---
title: "§ 3692. Jury trial for contempt in labor dispute cases"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3692"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3692"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 844](/us/stat/62/844).)"
---
# § 3692. Jury trial for contempt in labor dispute cases

##### § 3692. Jury trial for contempt in labor dispute cases

In all cases of contempt arising under the laws of the United States governing the issuance of injunctions or restraining orders in any case involving or growing out of a labor dispute, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the contempt shall have been committed.

This section shall not apply to contempts committed in the presence of the court or so near thereto as to interfere directly with the administration of justice nor to the misbehavior, misconduct, or disobedience of any officer of the court in respect to the writs, orders or process of the court.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 844](/us/stat/62/844).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on [section 111 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s111), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Labor ([Mar. 23, 1932, ch. 90, § 11](/us/act/1932-03-23/ch90/s11), [47 Stat. 72](/us/stat/47/72)).

The phrase “or the District of Columbia arising under the laws of the United States governing the issuance of injunctions or restraining orders in any case involving or growing out of a labor dispute” was inserted and the reference to specific sections of the Norris-LaGuardia Act (sections 101–115 of Title 29, U.S.C., 1940 ed.) were eliminated.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Taft-Hartley Injunctions

Former [section 111 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s111), Labor, upon which this section is based, as inapplicable to injunctions issued under the Taft-Hartley Act, see [section 178 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s178).
