---
title: "§ 701a–1. “Flood control” defined; jurisdiction of Federal investigations"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701a–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701a–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Dec. 22, 1944, ch. 665, § 2](/us/act/1944-12-22/ch665/s2), [58 Stat. 889](/us/stat/58/889); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Pub. L. 99–662, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/99/662/tIV/s403), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4133](/us/stat/100/4133).)"
---
# § 701a–1. “Flood control” defined; jurisdiction of Federal investigations

##### § 701a–1. “Flood control” defined; jurisdiction of Federal investigations

The words “flood control” as used in [section 701a of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701a), shall be construed to include channel and major drainage improvements and flood prevention improvements for protection from groundwater-induced damages, and Federal investigations and improvements of rivers and other waterways for flood control and allied purposes shall be under the jurisdiction of and shall be prosecuted by the Department of the Army under the direction of the Secretary of the Army and supervision of the Chief of Engineers, and Federal investigations of watersheds and measures for run-off and water-flow retardation and soil-erosion prevention on watersheds shall be under the jurisdiction of and shall be prosecuted by the Department of Agriculture under the direction of the Secretary of Agriculture, except as otherwise provided by Act of Congress.

*([Dec. 22, 1944, ch. 665, § 2](/us/act/1944-12-22/ch665/s2), [58 Stat. 889](/us/stat/58/889); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Pub. L. 99–662, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/99/662/tIV/s403), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4133](/us/stat/100/4133).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1986—[Pub. L. 99–662](/us/pl/99/662) inserted “and flood prevention improvements for protection from groundwater-induced damages” after “drainage improvements”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Savings Provision

Authority of Secretary of Agriculture under this section as unaffected by repeal of Secretary’s authority under [section 701b of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701b), see section 7 of act Aug. 4, 1954, set out as a note under [section 701b of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701b).

#### Section as Unaffected by Submerged Lands Act

Provisions of this section as not amended, modified or repealed by the Submerged Lands Act, see [section 1303 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1303), Public Lands.
