---
title: "§ 2680–3. Responsiveness to Congressional Research Service inquiries and Congressional Budget Office inquiries"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2680–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2680–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXII, § 7209](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXII/s7209), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2532](/us/stat/138/2532).)"
---
# § 2680–3. Responsiveness to Congressional Research Service inquiries and Congressional Budget Office inquiries

##### § 2680–3. Responsiveness to Congressional Research Service inquiries and Congressional Budget Office inquiries

(a) Findings The Congressional Research Service and the Congressional Budget Office are charged with rendering effective and efficient service to Congress and responding expeditiously, effectively, and efficiently to the needs of Congress.

(b) Responses The Secretary and Administrator shall ensure that for any inquiry or request from the Congressional Research Service or the Congressional Budget Office—

(1) an initial substantive response to the request is sent within 14 days of receipt of the inquiry;

(2) a complete answer responsive to the request is sent within 90 days of receipt of the inquiry, together with an explanation as to why the request was delayed; and

(3) Congressional Research Service and Congressional Budget Office staff shall be treated as congressional staff for any briefings or informal discussions.

(c) Requirement to disclose unclassified information The Secretary and the Administrator shall not refuse to provide information to the Congressional Research Service or the Congressional Budget Office on the basis that the Secretary or the Administrator deems such information to be sensitive but unclassified.

*([Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXII, § 7209](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXII/s7209), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2532](/us/stat/138/2532).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary” and “Administrator” as used in this section, see [section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159/s7002), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
