---
title: "§ 3662. Appeals to Board; procedures"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3662"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3662"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1222](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1222), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 467](/us/stat/93/467); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXV, § 3548](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXV/s3548), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2073](/us/stat/111/2073).)"
---
# § 3662. Appeals to Board; procedures

##### § 3662. Appeals to Board; procedures

(a) Persons entitled to appeal; form; time An employee may appeal to the Panama Canal Board of Appeals from an adverse determination made by an agency under [section 3660 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3660). The appeal shall be made in writing within a reasonable time (as specified in regulations prescribed by, or under the authority of, the Commission) after the date of the transmittal by the agency to the employee of written notice of the adverse determination.

(b) Personal appearance The Board may authorize, in connection with an appeal pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, a personal appearance before the Board by the employee, or by a representative of the employee designated for that purpose.

(c) Consideration of evidence; decision After investigation and consideration of the evidence submitted, the Board shall—

(1) prepare a written decision on the appeal;

(2) transmit its decision to the agency concerned; and

(3) transmit copies of the decision to the employee concerned or to the designated representative.

(d) Finality of decision The decision of the Board on any question or other matter relating to an appeal is final and conclusive. The agency concerned shall take action in accordance with the decision of the Board.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1222](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1222), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 467](/us/stat/93/467); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXV, § 3548](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXV/s3548), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2073](/us/stat/111/2073).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1997—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) substituted “Commission” for “President”.
