---
title: "§ 2110. Claims against the Commission"
identifier: "USC-T36-S2110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section2110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1276](/us/stat/112/1276).)"
---
# § 2110. Claims against the Commission

##### § 2110. Claims against the Commission

A claim against the American Battle Monuments Commission that is similar to a claim described in [section 2734 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2734), that is based on damage to, or loss or destruction of, property, or personal injury or death of an individual, and that is caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of an officer or civilian employee of the Commission acting within the scope of the officer’s or employee’s office or employment, may be settled, decided, and paid as provided in section 2734 for the settlement of Army claims. However, the Secretary of the Army may appoint an officer or employee of the Commission to a claims commission or as an officer to approve settlements of claims made by the claims commission. All payments in settlement of a claim shall be made out of appropriations made to carry out this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1276](/us/stat/112/1276).)*

The words “[section 2734 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2734)” and “section 2734” are substituted for “the first section of the Act entitled ‘An Act to provide for the prompt settlement of claims for damages occasioned by Army, Navy, and Marine Corps forces in foreign countries’, approved January 2, 1942 ([55 Stat. 880](/us/stat/55/880), as amended; [31 U.S.C. 224d](/us/usc/t31/s224d))” and “such Act”, respectively, in section 12 (4th par.) of the Act of March 4, 1923 (ch. 283), as added by [section 4(c)(3) of the Act of July 25, 1956](/us/act/1956-07-25/s4/c/3) (ch. 721, [70 Stat. 642](/us/stat/70/642)), because of [section 49(b) of the Act of August 10, 1956](/us/act/1956-08-10/s49/b) (ch. 1041, [70A Stat. 640](/us/stat/70A/640)). The 1942 law enacted former 31:224d, 224h, and 224i. Those sections subsequently were codified as 10:2734 and repealed by the Act of August 10, 1956 (ch. 1041, [70A Stat. 154](/us/stat/70A/154), 672). The words “both real and personal” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “on or after July 25, 1956” are omitted as obsolete. The words “or commissions” are omitted because of 1:1. The words “settled, decided” are substituted for “considered, ascertained, adjusted, determined” to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 2110 | 36:138b (4th par.). | Mar. 4, 1923, ch. 283, § 12 (4th par.), 42 Stat. 1509; June 26, 1946, ch. 502, 60 Stat. 317; July 25, 1956, ch. 721, §§ 2(c), (d), 4(c)(3), 70 Stat. 640, 642. |
