---
title: "§ 982. Grant to States to aid in construction of levees and drains"
identifier: "USC-T43-S982"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section982"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 2479.)"
---
# § 982. Grant to States to aid in construction of levees and drains

##### § 982. Grant to States to aid in construction of levees and drains

To enable the several States (but not including the States of Kansas, Nebraska, and Nevada) to construct the necessary levees and drains, to reclaim the swamp and overflowed lands therein—the whole of the swamp and overflowed lands, made unfit thereby for cultivation, and remaining unsold on or after the 28th day of September, A.D. 1850, are granted and belong to the several States respectively, in which said lands are situated: *Provided, however*, That said grant of swamp and overflowed lands, as to the States of California, Minnesota, and Oregon, is subject to the limitations, restrictions and conditions hereinafter named and specified in this chapter, as applicable to said three last-named States respectively.

*(R.S. § 2479.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 2479 derived from acts [Sept. 28, 1850, ch. 84](/us/act/1850-09-28/ch84), §§ 1, 4, [9 Stat. 520](/us/stat/9/520); [Mar. 12, 1860, ch. 5, § 1](/us/act/1860-03-12/ch5/s1), [12 Stat. 3](/us/stat/12/3); [Feb. 19, 1874, ch. 30](/us/act/1874-02-19/ch30), [18 Stat. 16](/us/stat/18/16).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Grants Not To Extend to Alaska

Land grant under Alaska Statehood provisions in lieu of grant of land under this section (declared not to extend to Alaska), see section 6(*l*) of [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s21), Territories and Insular Possessions.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Admission of Alaska as State

Admission of Alaska into the Union was accomplished Jan. 3, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3269, Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16, as required by sections 1 and 8(c) of [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 339](/us/stat/72/339), set out as notes preceding [section 21 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s21), Territories and Insular Possessions.
