---
title: "§ 1673. Restriction on garnishment"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1673"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1673"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–321, title III, § 303](/us/pl/90/321/tIII/s303), May 29, 1968, [82 Stat. 163](/us/stat/82/163); [Pub. L. 95–30, title V, § 501(e)(1)](/us/pl/95/30/tV/s501/e/1)–(3), May 23, 1977, [91 Stat. 161](/us/stat/91/161), 162; [Pub. L. 95–598, title III, § 312(a)](/us/pl/95/598/tIII/s312/a), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2676](/us/stat/92/2676).)"
---
# § 1673. Restriction on garnishment

##### § 1673. Restriction on garnishment

(a) Maximum allowable garnishment Except as provided in subsection (b) and in [section 1675 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1675), the maximum part of the aggregate disposable earnings of an individual for any workweek which is subjected to garnishment may not exceed

whichever is less. In the case of earnings for any pay period other than a week, the Secretary of Labor shall by regulation prescribe a multiple of the Federal minimum hourly wage equivalent in effect to that set forth in paragraph (2).

(1) 25 per centum of his disposable earnings for that week, or

(2) the amount by which his disposable earnings for that week exceed thirty times the Federal minimum hourly wage prescribed by [section 206(a)(1) of title 29](/us/usc/t29/s206/a/1) in effect at the time the earnings are payable,

(b) Exceptions

(1) The restrictions of subsection (a) do not apply in the case of

(A) any order for the support of any person issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or in accordance with an administrative procedure, which is established by State law, which affords substantial due process, and which is subject to judicial review.

(B) any order of any court of the United States having jurisdiction over cases under chapter 13 of title 11.

(C) any debt due for any State or Federal tax.

(2) The maximum part of the aggregate disposable earnings of an individual for any workweek which is subject to garnishment to enforce any order for the support of any person shall not exceed—

except that, with respect to the disposable earnings of any individual for any workweek, the 50 per centum specified in clause (A) shall be deemed to be 55 per centum and the 60 per centum specified in clause (B) shall be deemed to be 65 per centum, if and to the extent that such earnings are subject to garnishment to enforce a support order with respect to a period which is prior to the twelve-week period which ends with the beginning of such workweek.

(A) where such individual is supporting his spouse or dependent child (other than a spouse or child with respect to whose support such order is used), 50 per centum of such individual’s disposable earnings for that week; and

(B) where such individual is not supporting such a spouse or dependent child described in clause (A), 60 per centum of such individual’s disposable earnings for that week;

(c) Execution or enforcement of garnishment order or process prohibited No court of the United States or any State, and no State (or officer or agency thereof), may make, execute, or enforce any order or process in violation of this section.

*([Pub. L. 90–321, title III, § 303](/us/pl/90/321/tIII/s303), May 29, 1968, [82 Stat. 163](/us/stat/82/163); [Pub. L. 95–30, title V, § 501(e)(1)](/us/pl/95/30/tV/s501/e/1)–(3), May 23, 1977, [91 Stat. 161](/us/stat/91/161), 162; [Pub. L. 95–598, title III, § 312(a)](/us/pl/95/598/tIII/s312/a), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2676](/us/stat/92/2676).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—Subsec. (b)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598) substituted “court of the United States having jurisdiction over cases under chapter 13 of title 11” for “court of bankruptcy under chapter XIII of the Bankruptcy Act”.

1977—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 95–30, § 501(e)(1)](/us/pl/95/30/s501/e/1), (2), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and existing pars. (1), (2), and (3) as subpars. (A), (B), and (C) thereof, substituted “for the support of any person issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or in accordance with an administrative procedure, which is established by State law, which affords substantial due process, and which is subject to judicial review” for “of any court for the support of any person” in subpar. (A) as so redesignated, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 95–30, § 501(e)(3)](/us/pl/95/30/s501/e/3), inserted “, and no State (or officer or agency thereof),” after “or any State”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598) effective Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598/s402/a), set out as an Effective Date note preceding [section 101 of Title 11](/us/usc/t11/s101), Bankruptcy.

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

[Pub. L. 95–30, title V, § 501(e)(5)](/us/pl/95/30/tV/s501/e/5), May 23, 1977, [91 Stat. 162](/us/stat/91/162), provided that: “The amendments made by this subsection [amending this section and [section 1675 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1675)] shall take effect on the first day of the first calendar month which begins after the date of enactment of this Act [May 23, 1977].”
