---
title: "§ 407. Sale of timber on unallotted lands"
identifier: "USC-T25-S407"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section407"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1910, ch. 431, § 7](/us/act/1910-06-25/ch431/s7), [36 Stat. 857](/us/stat/36/857); [Pub. L. 88–301](/us/pl/88/301), Apr. 30, 1964, [78 Stat. 186](/us/stat/78/186); [Pub. L. 100–580, § 13](/us/pl/100/580/s13), Oct. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 2936](/us/stat/102/2936).)"
---
# § 407. Sale of timber on unallotted lands

##### § 407. Sale of timber on unallotted lands

(1) as determined by the governing bodies of the tribes concerned and approved by the Secretary, or

(2) in the absence of such a governing body, as determined by the Secretary for the tribe concerned.

*([June 25, 1910, ch. 431, § 7](/us/act/1910-06-25/ch431/s7), [36 Stat. 857](/us/stat/36/857); [Pub. L. 88–301](/us/pl/88/301), Apr. 30, 1964, [78 Stat. 186](/us/stat/78/186); [Pub. L. 100–580, § 13](/us/pl/100/580/s13), Oct. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 2936](/us/stat/102/2936).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–580](/us/pl/100/580) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The timber on unallotted lands of any Indian reservation may be sold in accordance with the principles of sustained yield, or in order to convert the land to a more desirable use, under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, and the proceeds from such sales, after deductions for administrative expenses pursuant to [section 413 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s413), shall be used for the benefit of the Indians who are members of the tribe or tribes concerned in such manner as he may direct.”

1964—[Pub. L. 88–301](/us/pl/88/301) substituted “timber” for “mature living and dead and down timber”, provided for sale of timber in accordance with principles of sustained yield or in order to convert the land to a more desirable use, provided for deductions for administrative expenses from proceeds of sales, made the Indians who were tribal members the beneficiaries instead of the Indians of the reservation, and struck out proviso which made section inapplicable to Minnesota and Wisconsin.
