---
title: "§ 7509. Medical certification by trusted agents"
identifier: "USC-T46-S7509"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section7509"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–120, title III, § 309(a)](/us/pl/114/120/tIII/s309/a), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 56](/us/stat/130/56).)"
---
# § 7509. Medical certification by trusted agents

##### § 7509. Medical certification by trusted agents

(a) In General.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law and pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary, a trusted agent may issue a medical certificate to an individual who—

(1) must hold such certificate to qualify for a license, certificate of registry, or merchant mariner’s document, or endorsement thereto under this part; and

(2) is qualified as to sight, hearing, and physical condition to perform the duties of such license, certificate, document, or endorsement, as determined by the trusted agent.

(b) Process for Issuance of Certificates by Secretary.— A final rule implementing this section shall include a process for—

(1) the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating to issue medical certificates to mariners who submit applications for such certificates to the Secretary; and

(2) a trusted agent to defer to the Secretary the issuance of a medical certificate.

(c) Trusted Agent Defined.— In this section the term “trusted agent” means a medical practitioner certified by the Secretary to perform physical examinations of an individual for purposes of a license, certificate of registry, or merchant mariner’s document under this part.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–120, title III, § 309(a)](/us/pl/114/120/tIII/s309/a), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 56](/us/stat/130/56).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Implementation Deadline

[Pub. L. 114–120, title III, § 309(b)](/us/pl/114/120/tIII/s309/b), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 57](/us/stat/130/57), provided that: “Not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 8, 2016], the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall issue a final rule implementing [section 7509 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s7509), United States Code, as added by this section.”
