---
title: "§ 6226. Annual 11 So in original. Probably should be “Biennial”. report and certification on status of security of atomic energy defense facilities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6226"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6226"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2)(B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/139/1405), 1462.)"
---
# § 6226. Annual 11 So in original. Probably should be “Biennial”. report and certification on status of security of atomic energy defense facilities

##### § 6226. Annual 11 So in original. Probably should be “Biennial”. report and certification on status of security of atomic energy defense facilities

(a) Report and Certification on Nuclear Security Enterprise.—

(1) Not later than September 30 of each even-numbered year, the Administrator shall submit to the Secretary of Energy—

(A) a report detailing the status of security at facilities holding Category I and II quantities of special nuclear material that are administered by the Administration; and

(B) written certification that such facilities are secure and that the security measures at such facilities meet the security standards and requirements of the Administration and the Department of Energy.

(2) If the Administrator is unable to make the certification described in paragraph (1)(B) with respect to a facility, the Administrator shall submit to the Secretary with the matters required by paragraph (1) a corrective action plan for the facility describing—

(A) the deficiency that resulted in the Administrator being unable to make the certification;

(B) the actions to be taken to correct the deficiency; and

(C) timelines for taking such actions.

(3) Not later than December 1 of each even-numbered year, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees the unaltered report, certification, and any corrective action plans submitted by the Administrator under paragraphs (1) and (2) together with any comments of the Secretary.

(b) Report and Certification on Atomic Energy Defense Facilities Not Administered by the Administration.—

(1) Not later than December 1 of each even-numbered year, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees—

(A) a report detailing the status of the security of atomic energy defense facilities holding Category I and II quantities of special nuclear material that are not administered by the Administration; and

(B) written certification that such facilities are secure and that the security measures at such facilities meet the security standards and requirements of the Department of Energy.

(2) If the Secretary is unable to make the certification described in paragraph (1)(B) with respect to a facility, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees, together with the matters required by paragraph (1), a corrective action plan describing—

(A) the deficiency that resulted in the Secretary being unable to make the certification;

(B) the actions to be taken to correct the deficiency; and

(C) timelines for taking such actions.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2)(B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/139/1405), 1462.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2657 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2657), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(d)(2)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/d/2/B), realigned margins.
