---
title: "§ 1319a. Duty on coffee; ratification of duties imposed by Legislature of Puerto Rico"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1319a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1319a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 18, 1934, ch. 604](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch604), [48 Stat. 1017](/us/stat/48/1017); [Aug. 20, 1935, ch. 578](/us/act/1935-08-20/ch578), [49 Stat. 665](/us/stat/49/665).)"
---
# § 1319a. Duty on coffee; ratification of duties imposed by Legislature of Puerto Rico

##### § 1319a. Duty on coffee; ratification of duties imposed by Legislature of Puerto Rico

The taxes and duties imposed by the Legislature of Puerto Rico by Joint Resolution Numbered 59 approved by the Governor of Puerto Rico May 5, 1930, and by Act Numbered 77 approved by the Governor of Puerto Rico May 5, 1931, as amended by Act Numbered 7 approved by the Governor April 9, 1934, including therein such taxes and duties on coffee brought into Puerto Rico from any State or Territory or district or possession of the United States, or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, are legalized and ratified, and the collection of all such taxes and duties made under or by authority of either of said acts of the Puerto Rican Legislature, including such taxes and duties on coffee brought into Puerto Rico from any State, Territory, district, or possession of the United States, or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, is legalized, ratified, and confirmed as fully to all intents and purposes as if the same had, by prior Act of Congress, been specifically authorized and directed.

*([June 18, 1934, ch. 604](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch604), [48 Stat. 1017](/us/stat/48/1017); [Aug. 20, 1935, ch. 578](/us/act/1935-08-20/ch578), [49 Stat. 665](/us/stat/49/665).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of Tariff Act of 1930 which constitutes this chapter.

#### Amendments

1935—Act Aug. 20, 1935, amended section generally.
