---
title: "§ 188. Failure to comply with provisions of lease"
identifier: "USC-T30-S188"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section188"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Feb. 25, 1920, ch. 85, § 31](/us/act/1920-02-25/ch85/s31), [41 Stat. 450](/us/stat/41/450); [Aug. 8, 1946, ch. 916, § 9](/us/act/1946-08-08/ch916/s9), [60 Stat. 956](/us/stat/60/956); [July 29, 1954, ch. 644, § 1(7)](/us/act/1954-07-29/ch644/s1/7), [68 Stat. 585](/us/stat/68/585); [Pub. L. 87–822, § 1](/us/pl/87/822/s1), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 943](/us/stat/76/943); [Pub. L. 91–245](/us/pl/91/245), §§ 1, 2, May 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 206](/us/stat/84/206); [Pub. L. 97–451, title IV, § 401](/us/"
---
# § 188. Failure to comply with provisions of lease

##### § 188. Failure to comply with provisions of lease

(a) Forfeiture Except as otherwise herein provided, any lease issued under the provisions of this chapter may be forfeited and canceled by an appropriate proceeding in the United States district court for the district in which the property, or some part thereof, is located whenever the lessee fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter, of the lease, or of the general regulations promulgated under this chapter and in force at the date of the lease; and the lease may provide for resort to appropriate methods for the settlement of disputes or for remedies for breach of specified conditions thereof.

(b) Cancellation Any lease issued after August 21, 1935, under the provisions of [section 226 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226) shall be subject to cancellation by the Secretary of the Interior after 30 days notice upon the failure of the lessee to comply with any of the provisions of the lease, unless or until the leasehold contains a well capable of production of oil or gas in paying quantities, or the lease is committed to an approved cooperative or unit plan or communitization agreement under [section 226(m) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/m) which contains a well capable of production of unitized substances in paying quantities. Such notice in advance of cancellation shall be sent the lease owner by registered letter directed to the lease owner’s record post-office address, and in case such letter shall be returned as undelivered, such notice shall also be posted for a period of thirty days in the United States land office for the district in which the land covered by such lease is situated, or in the event that there is no district land office for such district, then in the post office nearest such land. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, however, upon failure of a lessee to pay rental on or before the anniversary date of the lease, for any lease on which there is no well capable of producing oil or gas in paying quantities, the lease shall automatically terminate by operation of law: *Provided, however*, That when the time for payment falls upon any day in which the proper office for payment is not open, payment may be received the next official working day and shall be considered as timely made: *Provided*, That if the rental payment due under a lease is paid on or before the anniversary date but either (1) the amount of the payment has been or is hereafter deficient and the deficiency is nominal, as determined by the Secretary by regulation, or (2) the payment was calculated in accordance with the acreage figure stated in the lease, or in any decision affecting the lease, or made in accordance with a bill or decision which has been rendered by him and such figure, bill, or decision is found to be in error resulting in a deficiency, such lease shall not automatically terminate unless (1) a new lease had been issued prior to May 12, 1970, or (2) the lessee fails to pay the deficiency within the period prescribed in a notice of deficiency sent to him by the Secretary.

(c) Reinstatement Where any lease has been or is hereafter terminated automatically by operation of law under this section for failure to pay on or before the anniversary date the full amount of rental due, but such rental was paid on or tendered within twenty days thereafter, and it is shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Interior that such failure was either justifiable or not due to a lack of reasonable diligence on the part of the lessee, the Secretary may reinstate the lease if—

(1) a petition for reinstatement, together with the required rental, including back rental accruing from the date of termination of the lease, is filed with the Secretary; and

(2) no valid lease has been issued affecting any of the lands covered by the terminated lease prior to the filing of said petition. The Secretary shall not issue any new lease affecting any of the lands covered by such terminated lease for a reasonable period, as determined in accordance with regulations issued by him. In any case where a reinstatement of a terminated lease is granted under this subsection and the Secretary finds that the reinstatement of such lease will not afford the lessee a reasonable opportunity to continue operations under the lease, the Secretary may, at his discretion, extend the term of such lease for such period as he deems reasonable: *Provided*, That (A) such extension shall not exceed a period equivalent to the time beginning when the lessee knew or should have known of the termination and ending on the date the Secretary grants such petition; (B) such extension shall not exceed a period equal to the unexpired portion of the lease or any extension thereof remaining at the date of termination; and (C) when the reinstatement occurs after the expiration of the term or extension thereof the lease may be extended from the date the Secretary grants the petition.

(d) Additional grounds for reinstatement

(1) Where any oil and gas lease issued pursuant to [section 226(b) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/b) or the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands ([30 U.S.C. 351](/us/usc/t30/s351) et seq.) has been, or is hereafter, terminated automatically by operation of law under this section for failure to pay on or before the anniversary date the full amount of the rental due, and such rental is not paid or tendered within twenty days thereafter, and it is shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Interior that such failure was justifiable or not due to lack of reasonable diligence on the part of the lessee, or, no matter when the rental is paid after termination, it is shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary that such failure was inadvertent, the Secretary may reinstate the lease as of the date of termination for the unexpired portion of the primary term of the original lease or any extension thereof remaining at the date of termination, and so long thereafter as oil or gas is produced in paying quantities. In any case where a lease is reinstated under this subsection and the Secretary finds that the reinstatement of such lease (A) occurs after the expiration of the primary term or any extension thereof, or (B) will not afford the lessee a reasonable opportunity to continue operations under the lease, the Secretary may, at his discretion, extend the term of such lease for such period as he deems reasonable, but in no event for more than two years from the date the Secretary authorizes the reinstatement and so long thereafter as oil or gas is produced in paying quantities.

(2) No lease shall be reinstated under paragraph (1) of this subsection unless—

(A) with respect to any lease that terminated under subsection (b) on or before August 8, 2005, a petition for reinstatement (together with the required back rental and royalty accruing after the date of termination) is filed on or before the earlier of—

(i) 60 days after the lessee receives from the Secretary notice of termination, whether by return of check or by any other form of actual notice; or

(ii) 15 months after the termination of the lease; or

(B) with respect to any lease that terminates under subsection (b) after August 8, 2005, a petition for reinstatement (together with the required back rental and royalty accruing after the date of termination) is filed on or before the earlier of—

(i) 60 days after receipt of the notice of termination sent by the Secretary by certified mail to all lessees of record; or

(ii) 24 months after the termination of the lease.

(e) Conditions for reinstatement Any reinstatement under subsection (d) of this section shall be made only if these conditions are met:

A copy of said notice, together with information concerning rental, royalty, volume of production, if any, and any other matter which the Secretary deemed significant in making this determination to reinstate, shall be furnished to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate at least thirty days in advance of the reinstatement. The lessee of a reinstated lease shall reimburse the Secretary for the administrative costs of reinstating the lease, but not to exceed $500. In addition the lessee shall reimburse the Secretary for the cost of publication in the Federal Register of the notice of proposed reinstatement.

(1) no valid lease, whether still in existence or not, shall have been issued affecting any of the lands covered by the terminated lease prior to the filing of such petition: *Provided, however*, That after receipt of a petition for reinstatement, the Secretary shall not issue any new lease affecting any of the lands covered by such terminated lease for a reasonable period, as determined in accordance with regulations issued by him;

(2) payment of back rentals and the inclusion in a reinstated lease issued pursuant to the provisions of [section 226(b) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/b) of a requirement for future rentals at a rate of not less than $20 per acre per year, as determined by the Secretary;

(3) payment of back royalties and the inclusion in a reinstated lease issued pursuant to the provisions of [section 226(b) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/b) of a requirement for future royalties at a rate of not less than 20 percent computed on a sliding scale based upon the average production per well per day, at a rate which shall be not less than 4 percentage points greater than the competitive royality 11 So in original. Probably should be “royalty”. schedule then in force and used for royalty determination for competitive leases issued pursuant to such section as determined by the Secretary: *Provided*, That royalty on such reinstated lease shall be paid on all production removed or sold from such lease subsequent to the termination of the original lease; and

(4) notice of the proposed reinstatement of a terminated lease, including the terms and conditions of reinstatement, shall be published in the Federal Register at least thirty days in advance of the reinstatement.

(f) Treatment of leases

(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a reinstated lease shall be treated in the same manner as the original lease issued pursuant to [section 226 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226).

(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any lease issued pursuant to [section 223 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s223) shall be eligible for reinstatement under the terms and conditions set forth in subsections (c), (d), and (e) of this section, except that, upon reinstatement, such lease shall continue for twenty years and so long thereafter as oil or gas is produced in paying quantities.

(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any lease issued pursuant to [section 223 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s223) shall, upon renewal on or after November 15, 1990, continue for twenty years and so long thereafter as oil or gas is produced in paying quantities.

(g) Statutory provisions applicable to leases The minimum royalty provisions of [section 226(m) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/m) and the provisions of [section 209 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s209) shall be applicable to leases issued pursuant to subsection (d).

(h) Royalty reduction in reinstated leases In acting on a petition for reinstatement pursuant to subsection (d) or in response to a request filed after reinstatement, or both, the Secretary is authorized to reduce the royalty in that reinstated lease on the entire leasehold or any tract or portion thereof segregated for royalty purposes if, in his judgment, there are uneconomic or other circumstances which could cause undue hardship or premature termination of production; or because of any written action of the United States, its agents or employees, which preceded, and was a major consideration in, the lessee’s expenditure of funds to develop the property under the lease after the rent had become due and had not been paid; or if in the judgment of the Secretary it is equitable to do so for any reason.

(i) Discretion of Secretary Where, in the judgment of the Secretary of the Interior, drilling operations were being diligently conducted on the last day of the primary term of the lease, and, except for nonpayment of rental, the lessee would have been entitled to extension of his lease, pursuant to [section 226–1(d) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226–1/d), the Secretary of the Interior may reinstate such lease notwithstanding the failure of the lessee to have made payment of the next year’s rental, provided the conditions of subparagraphs (1) and (2) of section 22 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”. (c) are satisfied.

*([Feb. 25, 1920, ch. 85, § 31](/us/act/1920-02-25/ch85/s31), [41 Stat. 450](/us/stat/41/450); [Aug. 8, 1946, ch. 916, § 9](/us/act/1946-08-08/ch916/s9), [60 Stat. 956](/us/stat/60/956); [July 29, 1954, ch. 644, § 1(7)](/us/act/1954-07-29/ch644/s1/7), [68 Stat. 585](/us/stat/68/585); [Pub. L. 87–822, § 1](/us/pl/87/822/s1), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 943](/us/stat/76/943); [Pub. L. 91–245](/us/pl/91/245), §§ 1, 2, May 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 206](/us/stat/84/206); [Pub. L. 97–451, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/97/451/tIV/s401), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2462](/us/stat/96/2462); [Pub. L. 100–203, title V](/us/pl/100/203/tV), §§ 5102(d)(2), 5104, Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1330–258](/us/stat/101/1330-258), 1330–259; [Pub. L. 101–567, § 1](/us/pl/101/567/s1), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2802](/us/stat/104/2802); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 11(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s11/a/1), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4589](/us/stat/108/4589); [Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 371(b)](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s371/b), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 734](/us/stat/119/734); [Pub. L. 117–169, title V, § 50262(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/169/tV/s50262/a/2), (c)(2), (e)(2), Aug. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2056–2058](/us/stat/136/2056-2058).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is [act Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 513](/us/act/1947-08-07/ch513), [61 Stat. 913](/us/stat/61/913), which is classified generally to chapter 7 (§ 351 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 351 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s351) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(A)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/A), substituted “[section 226(b) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/b)” for “section 226(b) or (c) of this title”.

Subsec. (e)(2). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(B)(i)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/B/i), struck out “either” after “payment of back rentals and” and “or the inclusion in a reinstated lease issued pursuant to the provisions of [section 226(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/c) of a requirement that future rentals shall be at a rate not less than $5 per acre per year, all” before “as determined by the Secretary;”.

[Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(c)(2)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/c/2), substituted “$20” for “$10”.

Subsec. (e)(3). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/B/ii), inserted “and” after semicolon at end, struck out subpar. (A) designation before “payment”, and struck out subpar. (B) which read as follows: “payment of back royalties and inclusion in a reinstated lease issued pursuant to the provisions of [section 226(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/c) of a requirement for future royalties at a rate not less than 20 percent: *Provided*, That royalty on such reinstated lease shall be paid on all production removed or sold from such lease subsequent to the cancellation or termination of the original lease; and”.

[Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/a/2), substituted “20” for “16⅔” in two places.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(F)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/F), (G), redesignated subsec. (g) as (f) and struck out former subsec. (f) which related to issuance of noncompetitive oil and gas lease.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(G)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/G), redesignated subsec. (h) as (g). Former subsec. (g) redesignated (f).

Subsec. (g)(1). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(C)(i)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/C/i), substituted “in the same manner as the original lease issued pursuant to [section 226 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226)” for “as a competitive or a noncompetitive oil and gas lease in the same manner as the original lease issued pursuant to section 226(b) or (c) of this title”.

Subsec. (g)(2) to (4). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(C)(ii)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/C/ii)–(iv), redesignated pars. (3) and (4) as (2) and (3), respectively, substituted “except” for “applicable to leases issued under [section 226(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/c) except,” in par. (2), and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “Except as otherwise provided in this section, the issuance of a lease in lieu of an abandoned patented oil placer mining claim shall be treated as a noncompetitive oil and gas lease issued pursuant to [section 226(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226/c).”

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(G)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/G), redesignated subsec. (i) as (h). Former subsec. (h) redesignated (g).

[Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(D)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/D), substituted “subsection (d)” for “subsections (d) and (f) of this section”.

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(G)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/G), redesignated subsec. (j) as (i). Former subsec. (i) redesignated (h).

[Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(E)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/E), substituted, in heading, “Royalty reduction in reinstated leases” for “Royalty reductions” and, in text, “In acting on a petition for reinstatement pursuant to subsection (d)” for “(1) In acting on a petition to issue a noncompetitive oil and gas lease, under subsection (f) of this section or in response to a request filed after issuance of such a lease, or both, the Secretary is authorized to reduce the royalty on such lease if in his judgment it is equitable to do so or the circumstances warrant such relief due to uneconomic or other circumstances which could cause undue hardship or premature termination of production.

“(2) In acting on a petition for reinstatement pursuant to subsection (d) of this section”.

Subsec. (j). [Pub. L. 117–169, § 50262(e)(2)(G)](/us/pl/117/169/s50262/e/2/G), redesignated subsec. (j) as (i).

2005—Subsec. (d)(2)(A), (B). [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58) added subpars. (A) and (B) and struck out former subpars. (A) and (B), which related to reinstatement with respect to any lease that terminated under subsec. (b) of this section prior to Jan. 12, 1983, and reinstatement with respect to any lease that terminated under subsec. (b) of this section on or after Jan. 12, 1983.

1994—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs” before “of the House” in concluding provisions.

1990—Subsec. (g)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 101–567](/us/pl/101/567) added pars. (3) and (4).

1987—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–203, § 5104](/us/pl/100/203/s5104), amended first sentence generally. Prior to amendment, first sentence read as follows: “Any lease issued after August 21, 1935, under the provisions of [section 226 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s226) shall be subject to cancellation by the Secretary of the Interior after thirty days’ notice upon the failure of the lessee to comply with any of the provisions of the lease, unless or until the land covered by any such lease is known to contain valuable deposits of oil or gas.”

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 100–203, § 5102(d)(2)](/us/pl/100/203/s5102/d/2), substituted “section 226(m)” for “section 226(j)”.

1983—Subsecs. (d) to (j). [Pub. L. 97–451](/us/pl/97/451) added subsecs. (d) to (i) and redesignated former subsec. (d) as (j).

1970—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 91–245, § 1](/us/pl/91/245/s1), inserted proviso authorizing continuance of a lease where timely paid rent is nominally deficient or miscalculated due to an error either in acreage figure stated in the lease, in any decision affecting the lease, or in a bill or decision rendered by the Secretary, except where a new lease was issued prior to May 12, 1970 or the lessee failed to pay the deficiency within the period allowed by the Secretary.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 91–245, § 2](/us/pl/91/245/s2), inserted provisions allowing reinstatement of a lease despite a twenty-day delay in payment of rent, made the payment of back rental accruing from the date of termination of the lease a prerequisite to such reinstatement, restricted the Secretary’s power to issue a new lease on the lands covered by the terminated lease, gave the Secretary discretion to extend the term of a reinstated lease so as to afford the lessee a reasonable opportunity to continue operations under the lease, and struck out requirement that the petition for reinstatement of any lease terminated prior to Oct. 15, 1962 be filed within 180 days after Oct. 15, 1962.

1962—[Pub. L. 87–822](/us/pl/87/822) designated existing pars. as subsecs. (a) and (b) and added subsecs. (c) and (d).

1954—Act July 29, 1954, provided for automatic termination of a lease on failure to pay rental on or before anniversary date of lease, for any lease on which there is no well capable of producing oil or gas in paying quantities.

1946—Act Aug. 8, 1946, principally added second par. relating to cancellation of leases by Secretary of the Interior.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Savings Provision

See note set out under [section 181 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s181).

#### Reinstatement of Leases

[Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 371(a)](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s371/a), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 734](/us/stat/119/734), provided that: “Notwithstanding section 31(d)(2)(B) of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C. 188(d)(2)(B)](/us/usc/t30/s188/d/2/B)) as in effect before the effective date of this section [probably means the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58), Aug. 8, 2005], and notwithstanding the amendment made by subsection (b) of this section [amending this section], the Secretary of the Interior may reinstate any oil and gas lease issued under that Act [[30 U.S.C. 181](/us/usc/t30/s181) et seq.] that was terminated for failure of a lessee to pay the full amount of rental on or before the anniversary date of the lease, during the period beginning on September 1, 2001, and ending on June 30, 2004, if— “(1) not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 8, 2005], the lessee—“(A) files a petition for reinstatement of the lease; “(B) complies with the conditions of section 31(e) of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C. 188(e)](/us/usc/t30/s188/e)); and “(C) certifies that the lessee did not receive a notice of termination by the date that was 13 months before the date of termination; and “(2) the land is available for leasing.”

#### Authority for Issuance of Leases Unaffected by Reinstatement of Leases

[Pub. L. 87–822, § 2](/us/pl/87/822/s2), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 943](/us/stat/76/943), provided that: “Nothing in this Act [amending this section] shall be construed as limiting the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to issue, during the periods in which petitions for reinstatement may be filed, oil and gas leases for any of the lands affected.”

#### Outer Continental Shelf; Cancellation of Leases

Cancellation of mineral leases on submerged lands of outer Continental Shelf, see sections 1334 and 1337 of Title 43, Public Lands.
