---
title: "§ 6742. Prohibition relating to low concentrations of Schedules 2 and 3 chemicals"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6742"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6742"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tIV/s402), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–881](/us/stat/112/2681-881).)"
---
# § 6742. Prohibition relating to low concentrations of Schedules 2 and 3 chemicals

##### § 6742. Prohibition relating to low concentrations of Schedules 2 and 3 chemicals

(a) Prohibition Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no person located in the United States shall be required to report on, or to submit to, any routine inspection conducted for the purpose of verifying the production, possession, consumption, exportation, importation, or proposed production, possession, consumption, exportation, or importation of any substance that contains less than—

(1) 10 percent concentration of a Schedule 2 chemical; or

(2) 80 percent concentration of a Schedule 3 chemical.

(b) Standard for measurement of concentration The percent concentration of a chemical in a substance shall be measured on the basis of volume or total weight, which measurement yields the lesser percent.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tIV/s402), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–881](/us/stat/112/2681-881).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this division”, meaning div. I of [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–856](/us/stat/112/2681-856), known as the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of division I to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6701 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6701) and Tables.
