---
title: "§ 1978. Deployment outside of jurisdiction"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1978"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1978"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 1007](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s1007), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3182](/us/stat/118/3182); [Pub. L. 111–145, § 2(c)](/us/pl/111/145/s2/c), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 51](/us/stat/124/51).)"
---
# § 1978. Deployment outside of jurisdiction

##### § 1978. Deployment outside of jurisdiction

(a) Requirements for prior notice and approval The Chief of the Capitol Police may not deploy any officer outside of the areas established by law for the jurisdiction of the Capitol Police unless—

(1) the Chief provides prior notification to the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate of the costs anticipated to be incurred with respect to the deployment; and

(2) the Capitol Police Board gives prior approval to the deployment.

(b) Exception for certain services Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to the deployment of any officer for any of the following purposes:

(1) Responding to an imminent threat or emergency.

(2) Intelligence gathering.

(3) Providing protective services.

(c) Effective date This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2005 and each succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 1007](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s1007), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3182](/us/stat/118/3182); [Pub. L. 111–145, § 2(c)](/us/pl/111/145/s2/c), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 51](/us/stat/124/51).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005, which is div. G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005.

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 111–145](/us/pl/111/145) substituted “prior notification to the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, and” for “prior notification to”.
