---
title: "§ 5129. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5129"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5129"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 18, 1934, ch. 576, § 19](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576/s19), [48 Stat. 988](/us/stat/48/988).)"
---
# § 5129. Definitions

##### § 5129. Definitions

The term “Indian” as used in this Act shall include all persons of Indian descent who are members of any recognized Indian tribe now under Federal jurisdiction, and all persons who are descendants of such members who were, on June 1, 1934, residing within the present boundaries of any Indian reservation, and shall further include all other persons of one-half or more Indian blood. For the purposes of this Act, Eskimos and other aboriginal peoples of Alaska shall be considered Indians. The term “tribe” wherever used in this Act shall be construed to refer to any Indian tribe, organized band, pueblo, or the Indians residing on one reservation. The words “adult Indians” wherever used in this Act shall be construed to refer to Indians who have attained the age of twenty-one years.

*([June 18, 1934, ch. 576, § 19](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576/s19), [48 Stat. 988](/us/stat/48/988).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [act June 18, 1934, ch. 576](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576), [48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 479 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s479) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Admission of Alaska as State

Admission of Alaska into the Union was accomplished Jan. 3, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3269, Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16, as required by sections 1 and 8(c) of [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 339](/us/stat/72/339), set out as notes preceding [section 21 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s21), Territories and Insular Possessions.
