---
title: "§ 2005a. Amount of assistance; determination of costs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2005a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2005a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–151, § 2](/us/pl/85/151/s2), Aug. 16, 1957, [71 Stat. 371](/us/stat/71/371).)"
---
# § 2005a. Amount of assistance; determination of costs

##### § 2005a. Amount of assistance; determination of costs

The amount of such financial assistance shall not exceed that portion of the reasonable cost of the construction project which is attributable to the Indian health needs, as determined by the Surgeon General: *Provided*, That in determining, for the purposes of this subchapter, the portion of the cost of the construction project attributable to Indian health needs, the Surgeon General shall take into account only those categories of Indians for which hospital and medical care, including outpatient care and field health services, is being provided by or at the expense of the Public Health Service on August 16, 1957.

*([Pub. L. 85–151, § 2](/us/pl/85/151/s2), Aug. 16, 1957, [71 Stat. 371](/us/stat/71/371).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Office of Surgeon General abolished by section 3 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, eff. June 25, 1966, 31 F.R. 8855, [80 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/80/1610), and functions thereof transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 1 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202). Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare redesignated Secretary of Health and Human Services by [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education. Office of Surgeon General reestablished within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, see Notice of Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Mar. 30, 1987, 52 F.R. 11754.
