---
title: "§ 2314. Chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives response team"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2314"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2314"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1414](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1414), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2720](/us/stat/110/2720); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1033](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1033), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3429](/us/stat/119/3429).)"
---
# § 2314. Chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives response team

##### § 2314. Chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives response team

(a) Department of Defense rapid response team The Secretary of Defense shall develop and maintain at least one domestic terrorism rapid response team composed of members of the Armed Forces and employees of the Department of Defense who are capable of aiding Federal, State, and local officials in the detection, neutralization, containment, dismantlement, and disposal of weapons of mass destruction containing chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives.

(b) Addition to Federal response plans The Secretary of Homeland Security shall incorporate into the National Response Plan prepared pursuant to section 502(6) 11 See References in Text note below. of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ([6 U.S.C. 312(6)](/us/usc/t6/s312/6)), other existing Federal emergency response plans, and programs prepared under [section 5196(b) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5196/b) guidance on the use and deployment of the rapid response teams established under this section to respond to emergencies involving weapons of mass destruction. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall carry out this subsection in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the heads of other Federal agencies involved with the emergency response plans.

*([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1414](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1414), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2720](/us/stat/110/2720); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1033](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1033), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3429](/us/stat/119/3429).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 502(6) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, referred to in subsec. (b), probably should be a reference to section 504(a)(6) of that Act, which is classified to [section 314(a)(6) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s314/a/6), Domestic Security. Section 502 of the Act was renumbered section 504 and par. (6) of that section was redesignated subsec. (a)(6) by [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 611(8)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s611/8), (12)(B), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1395](/us/stat/120/1395), 1398.

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–163, § 1033(1)](/us/pl/109/163/s1033/1), substituted “Chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives response team” for “Chemical-biological emergency response team” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 1033(2)](/us/pl/109/163/s1033/2), substituted “radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives” for “or related materials”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 1033(3)](/us/pl/109/163/s1033/3), in heading, substituted “plans” for “plan” and, in text, substituted “The Secretary of Homeland Security shall incorporate into the National Response Plan prepared pursuant to [section 312(6) of title 6](/us/usc/t6/s312/6), other existing Federal emergency response plans, and” for “Not later than December 31, 1997, the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall develop and incorporate into existing Federal emergency response plans and” in first sentence and “Secretary of Homeland Security” for “Director” and “coordination” for “consultation” in second sentence.
