---
title: "§ 227b–2. Provision of evidence of certain robocall violations to Attorney General"
identifier: "USC-T47-S227b–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section227b–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–105, § 11](/us/pl/116/105/s11), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3285](/us/stat/133/3285).)"
---
# § 227b–2. Provision of evidence of certain robocall violations to Attorney General

##### § 227b–2. Provision of evidence of certain robocall violations to Attorney General

(a) In general If the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau of the Commission obtains evidence that suggests a willful, knowing, and repeated robocall violation with an intent to defraud, cause harm, or wrongfully obtain anything of value, the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau shall provide such evidence to the Attorney General.

(b) Report to Congress Not later than 1 year after December 30, 2019, and annually thereafter, the Commission shall publish on its website and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that—

(1) states the number of instances during the preceding year in which the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau provided the evidence described in subsection (a) to the Attorney General; and

(2) contains a general summary of the types of robocall violations to which such evidence relates.

(c) Rules of construction Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the ability of the Commission or the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau under other law—

(1) to refer a matter to the Attorney General; or

(2) to pursue or continue pursuit of an enforcement action in a matter with respect to which the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau provided the evidence described in subsection (a) to the Attorney General.

(d) Robocall violation defined In this section, the term “robocall violation” means a violation of subsection (b) or (e) of [section 227 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s227).

*([Pub. L. 116–105, § 11](/us/pl/116/105/s11), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3285](/us/stat/133/3285).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Pallone-Thune Telephone Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement and Deterrence Act, also known as the Pallone-Thune TRACED Act, and not as part of the Communications Act of 1934 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition

For definition of “Commission” as used in this section, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 116–105](/us/pl/116/105/s2), set out as a note under [section 227 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s227).
