---
title: "§ 9582. Participation of Federal departments and agencies"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9582"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9582"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title VI, § 100602](/us/pl/117/58/dK/tVI/s100602), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1464](/us/stat/135/1464).)"
---
# § 9582. Participation of Federal departments and agencies

##### § 9582. Participation of Federal departments and agencies

(1) consult with other Federal agencies and departments as appropriate to—

(A) develop policies, comprehensive plans, and specific program goals for the programs carried out under part B of subchapter I and subchapter III;

(B) establish regular performance monitoring and reporting systems to ensure that goals established by the Under Secretary with respect to the implementation of this chapter are being achieved; and

(C) evaluate the impact of Federal support of socially or economically disadvantaged business concerns in achieving the objectives of this chapter;

(2) conduct a coordinated review of all proposed Federal training and technical assistance activities in direct support of the programs carried out under part B of subchapter I and subchapter III to ensure consistency with program goals and to avoid duplication; and

(3) convene, for purposes of coordination, meetings of the heads of such Federal agencies and departments, or their designees, the programs and activities of which may affect or contribute to the carrying out of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title VI, § 100602](/us/pl/117/58/dK/tVI/s100602), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1464](/us/stat/135/1464).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in pars. (1)(B), (C), and (3), was in the original “this division”, meaning div. K of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1445](/us/stat/135/1445), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of division K to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9501 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s9501) and Tables.
