---
title: "§ 937. Art. 137. Articles to be explained"
identifier: "USC-T10-S937"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section937"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 78](/us/stat/70A/78); [Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title VIII, § 804(d)](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tVIII/s804/d), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3907](/us/stat/100/3907); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XI, § 1152](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXI/s1152), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 468](/us/stat/110/468); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LXI, § 5503](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLXI/s5503), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2960](/us/stat/130/2960); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, titl"
---
# § 937. Art. 137. Articles to be explained

##### § 937. Art. 137. Articles to be explained

(a) Enlisted Members.—

(1) The sections (articles) of this chapter specified in paragraph (3) shall be carefully explained to each enlisted member at the time of (or within fourteen days after)—

(A) the member’s initial entrance on active duty;

(B) the member’s initial entrance into a duty status with a reserve component; or

(C) the member’s initial entrance on active duty or into a space force active status.

(2) Such sections (articles) shall be explained again—

(A) after the member has completed six months of active duty or, in the case of a member of a reserve component, after the member has completed basic or recruit training;

(B) after a member of the Space Force has completed six months of sustained duty or in the case of a member not on sustained duty, after the member has completed basic or recruit training; and

(C) at the time when the member reenlists.

(3) This subsection applies with respect to sections 802, 803, 807–815, 825, 827, 831, 837, 838, 855, 877–934, and 937–939 of this title (articles 2, 3, 7–15, 25, 27, 31, 37, 38, 55, 77–134, and 137–139).

(b) Officers.—

(1) The sections (articles) of this chapter specified in paragraph (2) shall be carefully explained to each officer at the time of (or within six months after)—

(A) the initial entrance of the officer on active duty as an officer; or

(B) the initial commissioning of the officer in a reserve component or the Space Force.

(2) This subsection applies with respect to the sections (articles) specified in subsection (a)(3) and such other sections (articles) as the Secretary concerned may prescribe by regulation.

(c) Training for Certain Officers.— Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, officers with the authority to convene courts-martial or to impose non-judicial punishment shall receive periodic training regarding the purposes and administration of this chapter. Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, officers assigned to duty in a joint command or a combatant command, who have such authority, shall receive additional specialized training regarding the purposes and administration of this chapter with respect to joint commands and the combatant commands.

(d) Availability and Maintenance of Text.— The text of this chapter and the text of the regulations prescribed by the President under this chapter shall be—

(1) made available to a member on active duty, to a member of a reserve component, or to a member of the Space Force, upon request by the member, for the member’s personal examination; and

(2) maintained by the Secretary of Defense in electronic formats that are updated periodically and made available on the Internet.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 78](/us/stat/70A/78); [Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title VIII, § 804(d)](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tVIII/s804/d), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3907](/us/stat/100/3907); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XI, § 1152](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXI/s1152), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 468](/us/stat/110/468); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LXI, § 5503](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLXI/s5503), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2960](/us/stat/130/2960); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1081(c)(1)(R)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1081/c/1/R), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1599](/us/stat/131/1599); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1722(f)(3)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1722/f/3), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 671](/us/stat/137/671); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(a)(17)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVII/s1701/a/17), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2204](/us/stat/138/2204).)*

The word “each” is substituted for the word “every”. The word “member” is substituted for the word “person”. The words “in [any of] the armed forces of the United States” are omitted as surplusage.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 937 | 50:733. | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 137), 64 Stat. 144. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Another [section 1722(f) of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s1722/f) amended [section 973 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s973).

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) inserted “the” before “Space Force”.

2023—Subsec. (a)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1722(f)(3)(A)](/us/pl/118/31/s1722/f/3/A), added subpar. (C).

Subsec. (a)(2)(B), (C). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1722(f)(3)(B)](/us/pl/118/31/s1722/f/3/B), added subpar. (B) and redesignated former subpar. (B) as (C).

Subsec. (b)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1722(f)(3)(C)](/us/pl/118/31/s1722/f/3/C), inserted “or the Space Force” after “in a reserve component”.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1722(f)(3)(D)](/us/pl/118/31/s1722/f/3/D), substituted “, to a member of a reserve component, or to a member of the Space Force,” for “or to a member of a reserve component,”.

2017—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1081(c)(1)(R)(i)](/us/pl/115/91/s1081/c/1/R/i), struck out “(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)” after “this chapter” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1081(c)(1)(R)(ii)](/us/pl/115/91/s1081/c/1/R/ii), which directed amendment of subsec. (b) by striking out “(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)” after “this chapter” in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), was executed by making the amendment in introductory provisions of par. (1) of subsec. (b), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1081(c)(1)(R)(iii)](/us/pl/115/91/s1081/c/1/R/iii), struck out “(the Uniform Code of Military Justice)” after “this chapter” in introductory provisions.

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 5503(1)](/us/pl/114/328/s5503/1), inserted heading.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 5503(1)](/us/pl/114/328/s5503/1), substituted “The sections (articles) of this chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice)” for “The sections of this title (articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)” in introductory provisions.

Subsecs. (b) to (d). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 5503(2)](/us/pl/114/328/s5503/2), (3), added subsecs. (b) to (d) and struck out former subsec. (b) which read as follows: “The text of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and of the regulations prescribed by the President under such Code shall be made available to a member on active duty or to a member of a reserve component, upon request by the member, for the member’s personal examination.”

1996—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) substituted “within fourteen days” for “within six days”.

1986—[Pub. L. 99–661](/us/pl/99/661) amended section generally, inserting provisions relating to reserve components.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) effective immediately after the amendments made by div. E (§§ 5001–5542) of [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that Act ([10 U.S.C. 801](/us/usc/t10/s801) note), see [section 1081(c)(4) of Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91/s1081/c/4), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–661](/us/pl/99/661) effective the earlier of (1) the last day of the 120-day period beginning on Nov. 14, 1986; or (2) the date specified in an Executive order for such amendment to take effect, see [section 808 of Pub. L. 99–661](/us/pl/99/661/s808), set out as a note under [section 802 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s802).
