---
title: "§ 8262. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8262"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8262"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 151](/us/pl/102/486/tI/s151), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2843](/us/stat/106/2843).)"
---
# § 8262. Definitions

##### § 8262. Definitions

(1) the term “agency” means 22 So in original. The word “means” probably should not appear. has the meaning given such term in [section 551(1) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s551/1), except that such term does not include the United States Postal Service;

(2) the term “facility energy supervisor” means the employee with responsibility for the daily operations of a Federal facility, including the management, installation, operation, and maintenance of energy systems in Federal facilities which may include more than one building;

(3) the term “trained energy manager” means a person who has demonstrated proficiency, or who has completed a course of study in the areas of fundamentals of building energy systems, building energy codes and applicable professional standards, energy accounting and analysis, life-cycle cost methodology, fuel supply and pricing, and instrumentation for energy surveys and audits;

(4) the term “Task Force” means the Interagency Energy Management Task Force established under [section 8257 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8257); and

(5) the term “energy conservation measures” has the meaning given such term in [section 8259(4) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8259/4).

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 151](/us/pl/102/486/tI/s151), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2843](/us/stat/106/2843).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in text, is subtitle F (§§ 151–168) of title I of [Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2843](/us/stat/106/2843), which enacted this section and sections 8258a, 8258b, 8262a to 8262k of this title, amended sections 8252 to 8256, 8258, 8259, 8287, and 8287c of this title and section 490 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 8262h of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8262h) and former [section 1815 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1815), The Congress, and repealed provisions set out as a note under [section 8253 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8253). For complete classification of subtitle F to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and not as part of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act which comprises this chapter.
