---
title: "§ 21502. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–119, § 3](/us/pl/114/119/s3), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 16](/us/stat/130/16).)"
---
# § 21502. Definitions

##### § 21502. Definitions

(1) Center The term “Center” means the Angel Watch Center established pursuant to [section 21503(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s21503/a).

(2) Convicted The term “convicted” has the meaning given the term in section 111 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16911](/us/usc/t42/s16911)).11 See References in Text note below.

(3) Covered sex offender Except as otherwise provided, the term “covered sex offender” means an individual who is a sex offender by reason of having been convicted of a sex offense against a minor.

(4) Destination country The term “destination country” means a destination or transit country.

(5) INTERPOL The term “INTERPOL” means the International Criminal Police Organization.

(6) Jurisdiction The term “jurisdiction” means—

(A) a State;

(B) the District of Columbia;

(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;

(D) Guam;

(E) American Samoa;

(F) the Northern Mariana Islands;

(G) the United States Virgin Islands; and

(H) to the extent provided in, and subject to the requirements of, section 127 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16927](/us/usc/t42/s16927)),^1 a Federally recognized Indian tribe.

(7) Minor The term “minor” means an individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.

(8) National Sex Offender Registry The term “National Sex Offender Registry” means the National Sex Offender Registry established by section 119 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16919](/us/usc/t42/s16919)).^1

(9) Sex offender under SORNA The term “sex offender under SORNA” has the meaning given the term “sex offender” in section 111 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16911](/us/usc/t42/s16911)).^1

(10) Sex offense against a minor

(A) In general The term “sex offense against a minor” means a specified offense against a minor, as defined in section 111 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16911](/us/usc/t42/s16911)).^1

(B) Other offenses The term “sex offense against a minor” includes a sex offense described in section 111(5)(A) of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16911(5)(A)](/us/usc/t42/s16911/5/A)) ^1 that is a specified offense against a minor, as defined in paragraph (7) of such section, or an attempt or conspiracy to commit such an offense.

(C) Foreign convictions; offenses involving consensual sexual conduct The limitations contained in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 111(5) of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16911(5)](/us/usc/t42/s16911/5)) ^1 shall apply with respect to a sex offense against a minor for purposes of this chapter to the same extent and in the same manner as such limitations apply with respect to a sex offense for purposes of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 [[34 U.S.C. 20901](/us/usc/t34/s20901) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 114–119, § 3](/us/pl/114/119/s3), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 16](/us/stat/130/16).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–119](/us/pl/114/119), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 15](/us/stat/130/15), known as the International Megan’s Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of Traveling Sex Offenders, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2016 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, referred to in par. (10)(C), is [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 587](/us/stat/120/587), which enacted chapter 209 (§ 20901 et seq.) of this title and enacted, amended, and repealed numerous other sections and notes in the Code. Sections 111, 119, and 127 of the Act were classified to sections 16911, 16919, and 16927, respectively, of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as sections 20911, 20921, and 20929, respectively, of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16935a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16935a), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
