---
title: "§ 70115. Long-range vessel tracking system"
identifier: "USC-T46-S70115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section70115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s102/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2083](/us/stat/116/2083); amended [Pub. L. 108–293, title VIII, § 803(b)](/us/pl/108/293/tVIII/s803/b), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1080](/us/stat/118/1080); [Pub. L. 109–347, title I, § 107(a)](/us/pl/109/347/tI/s107/a), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1891](/us/stat/120/1891).)"
---
# § 70115. Long-range vessel tracking system

##### § 70115. Long-range vessel tracking system

Not later than April 1, 2007, the Secretary shall, consistent with international treaties, conventions, and agreements to which the United States is a party, develop and implement a long-range automated vessel tracking system for all vessels in United States waters that are equipped with the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System or equivalent satellite technology. The system shall be designed to provide the Secretary the capability of receiving information on vessel positions at interval positions appropriate to deter transportation security incidents. The Secretary may use existing maritime organizations to collect and monitor tracking information under the system.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–295, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/107/295/tI/s102/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2083](/us/stat/116/2083); amended [Pub. L. 108–293, title VIII, § 803(b)](/us/pl/108/293/tVIII/s803/b), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1080](/us/stat/118/1080); [Pub. L. 109–347, title I, § 107(a)](/us/pl/109/347/tI/s107/a), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1891](/us/stat/120/1891).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–347](/us/pl/109/347), in first sentence, substituted “Not later than April 1, 2007, the Secretary” for “The Secretary”.

2004—[Pub. L. 108–293](/us/pl/108/293), in first sentence, substituted “shall, consistent with international treaties, conventions, and agreements to which the United States is a party,” for “may”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 109–347, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/109/347/tI/s107/b), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1891](/us/stat/120/1891), provided that: “The Secretary [of Homeland Security] may issue regulations to establish a voluntary long-range automated vessel tracking system for vessels described in [section 70115 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s70115), United States Code, during the period before regulations are issued under such section.”

#### Long-Range Vessel Tracking System

[Pub. L. 109–241, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/109/241/tIV/s404), July 11, 2006, [120 Stat. 535](/us/stat/120/535), provided that: “(a) Pilot Project.—The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, acting through the Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall conduct a 3-year pilot program for long-range tracking of up to 2,000 vessels using satellite systems with a nonprofit maritime organization that has a demonstrated capability of operating a variety of satellite communications systems providing data to vessel tracking software and hardware that provides long-range vessel information to the Coast Guard to aid maritime security and response to maritime emergencies. “(b) Authorization of Appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006, 2007, and 2008 to carry out subsection (a).”
