---
title: "§ 44724. Manipulation of flight controls"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44724"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44724"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–264, title VI, § 602(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/264/tVI/s602/a/1), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3263](/us/stat/110/3263).)"
---
# § 44724. Manipulation of flight controls

##### § 44724. Manipulation of flight controls

(a) Prohibition.— No pilot in command of an aircraft may allow an individual who does not hold—

to manipulate the controls of an aircraft if the pilot knows or should have known that the individual is attempting to set a record or engage in an aeronautical competition or aeronautical feat, as defined by the Administrator.

(1) a valid private pilots certificate issued by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration under part 61 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations; and

(2) the appropriate medical certificate issued by the Administrator under part 67 of such title,

(b) Revocation of Airmen Certificates.— The Administrator shall issue an order revoking a certificate issued to an airman under [section 44703 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s44703) if the Administrator finds that while acting as a pilot in command of an aircraft, the airman has permitted another individual to manipulate the controls of the aircraft in violation of subsection (a).

(c) Pilot in Command Defined.— In this section, the term “pilot in command” has the meaning given such term by section 1.1 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–264, title VI, § 602(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/264/tVI/s602/a/1), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3263](/us/stat/110/3263).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Except as otherwise specifically provided, section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 1996, and not to be construed as affecting funds made available for a fiscal year ending before Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 104–264](/us/pl/104/264/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 1996 Amendment note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
