---
title: "§ 20911. Relevant definitions, including Amie Zyla expansion of sex offender definition and expanded inclusion of child predators"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20911"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20911"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 111](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s111), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 591](/us/stat/120/591).)"
---
# § 20911. Relevant definitions, including Amie Zyla expansion of sex offender definition and expanded inclusion of child predators

##### § 20911. Relevant definitions, including Amie Zyla expansion of sex offender definition and expanded inclusion of child predators

(1) Sex offender The term “sex offender” means an individual who was convicted of a sex offense.

(2) Tier I sex offender The term “tier I sex offender” means a sex offender other than a tier II or tier III sex offender.

(3) Tier II sex offender The term “tier II sex offender” means a sex offender other than a tier III sex offender whose offense is punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year and—

(A) is comparable to or more severe than the following offenses, when committed against a minor, or an attempt or conspiracy to commit such an offense against a minor:

(i) sex trafficking (as described in [section 1591 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1591));

(ii) coercion and enticement (as described in [section 2422(b) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2422/b));

(iii) transportation with intent to engage in criminal sexual activity (as described in section 2423(a)) 11 So in original. The second closing parenthesis probably should follow “18”. of title 18;

(iv) abusive sexual contact (as described in [section 2244 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2244));

(B) involves—

(i) use of a minor in a sexual performance;

(ii) solicitation of a minor to practice prostitution; or

(iii) production or distribution of child pornography; or

(C) occurs after the offender becomes a tier I sex offender.

(4) Tier III sex offender The term “tier III sex offender” means a sex offender whose offense is punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year and—

(A) is comparable to or more severe than the following offenses, or an attempt or conspiracy to commit such an offense:

(i) aggravated sexual abuse or sexual abuse (as described in sections 2241 and 2242 of title 18); or

(ii) abusive sexual contact (as described in [section 2244 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2244)) against a minor who has not attained the age of 13 years;

(B) involves kidnapping of a minor (unless committed by a parent or guardian); or

(C) occurs after the offender becomes a tier II sex offender.

(5) Amie Zyla expansion of sex offense definition

(A) Generally Except as limited by subparagraph (B) or (C), the term “sex offense” means—

(i) a criminal offense that has an element involving a sexual act or sexual contact with another;

(ii) a criminal offense that is a specified offense against a minor;

(iii) a Federal offense (including an offense prosecuted under section 1152 or 1153 of title 18) under section 1591, or chapter 109A, 110 (other than section 2257, 2257A, or 2258), or 117, of title 18;

(iv) a military offense specified by the Secretary of Defense under [section 115(a)(8)(C)(i) of Public Law 105–119](/us/pl/105/119/s115/a/8/C/i) ([10 U.S.C. 951](/us/usc/t10/s951) note); or

(v) an attempt or conspiracy to commit an offense described in clauses (i) through (iv).

(B) Foreign convictions A foreign conviction is not a sex offense for the purposes of this subchapter if it was not obtained with sufficient safeguards for fundamental fairness and due process for the accused under guidelines or regulations established under [section 20912 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20912).

(C) Offenses involving consensual sexual conduct An offense involving consensual sexual conduct is not a sex offense for the purposes of this subchapter if the victim was an adult, unless the adult was under the custodial authority of the offender at the time of the offense, or if the victim was at least 13 years old and the offender was not more than 4 years older than the victim.

(6) Criminal offense The term “criminal offense” means a State, local, tribal, foreign, or military offense (to the extent specified by the Secretary of Defense under [section 115(a)(8)(C)(i) of Public Law 105–119](/us/pl/105/119/s115/a/8/C/i) ([10 U.S.C. 951](/us/usc/t10/s951) note)) or other criminal offense.

(7) Expansion of definition of “specified offense against a minor” to include all offenses by child predators The term “specified offense against a minor” means an offense against a minor that involves any of the following:

(A) An offense (unless committed by a parent or guardian) involving kidnapping.

(B) An offense (unless committed by a parent or guardian) involving false imprisonment.

(C) Solicitation to engage in sexual conduct.

(D) Use in a sexual performance.

(E) Solicitation to practice prostitution.

(F) Video voyeurism as described in [section 1801 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1801).

(G) Possession, production, or distribution of child pornography.

(H) Criminal sexual conduct involving a minor, or the use of the Internet to facilitate or attempt such conduct.

(I) Any conduct that by its nature is a sex offense against a minor.

(8) Convicted as including certain juvenile adjudications The term “convicted” or a variant thereof, used with respect to a sex offense, includes adjudicated delinquent as a juvenile for that offense, but only if the offender is 14 years of age or older at the time of the offense and the offense adjudicated was comparable to or more severe than aggravated sexual abuse (as described in [section 2241 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2241)), or was an attempt or conspiracy to commit such an offense.

(9) Sex offender registry The term “sex offender registry” means a registry of sex offenders, and a notification program, maintained by a jurisdiction.

(10) Jurisdiction The term “jurisdiction” means any of the following:

(A) A State.

(B) The District of Columbia.

(C) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(D) Guam.

(E) American Samoa.

(F) The Northern Mariana Islands.

(G) The United States Virgin Islands.

(H) To the extent provided and subject to the requirements of [section 20929 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20929), a federally recognized Indian tribe.

(11) Student The term “student” means an individual who enrolls in or attends an educational institution, including (whether public or private) a secondary school, trade or professional school, and institution of higher education.

(12) Employee The term “employee” includes an individual who is self-employed or works for any other entity, whether compensated or not.

(13) Resides The term “resides” means, with respect to an individual, the location of the individual’s home or other place where the individual habitually lives.

(14) Minor The term “minor” means an individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 111](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s111), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 591](/us/stat/120/591).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 590](/us/stat/120/590), known as the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16911 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16911), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
