---
title: "§ 7904. Trade-related barriers to export of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7904"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7904"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–240, title VII, § 734](/us/pl/101/240/tVII/s734), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/109/58/tXVI/s1611), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 1115](/us/stat/119/1115).)"
---
# § 7904. Trade-related barriers to export of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies

##### § 7904. Trade-related barriers to export of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after August 8, 2005, the United States Trade Representative shall (as appropriate and consistent with applicable bilateral, regional, and mutual trade agreements)—

(1) identify trade-relations barriers maintained by foreign countries to the export of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies and practices from the United States to the developing countries identified in the report submitted under [section 7902(a)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7902/a/2/A); and

(2) negotiate with foreign countries for the removal of those barriers.

(b) Annual report Not later than 1 year after the date on which a report is submitted under subsection (a)(1) and annually thereafter, the United States Trade Representative shall submit to Congress a report that describes any progress made with respect to removing the barriers identified by the United States Trade Representative under subsection (a)(1).

*([Pub. L. 101–240, title VII, § 734](/us/pl/101/240/tVII/s734), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/109/58/tXVI/s1611), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 1115](/us/stat/119/1115).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2005, except as otherwise provided, see [section 739 of Pub. L. 101–240](/us/pl/101/240/s739), set out as a note under [section 7901 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7901).
