---
title: "§ 9269a. Authority to consolidate reports"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9269a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9269a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7142](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7142), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2255](/us/stat/133/2255).)"
---
# § 9269a. Authority to consolidate reports

##### § 9269a. Authority to consolidate reports

(a) In general Any and all reports required to be submitted to the appropriate congressional committees under this subtitle 11 See References in Text note below. or an amendment made by this subtitle that are subject to a deadline for submission consisting of the same unit of time may be consolidated into a single report that is submitted pursuant to that deadline.

(b) Contents Any reports consolidated under subsection (a) shall contain all information required under this subtitle ^1 or an amendment made by this subtitle and any other elements that may be required by existing law.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7142](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7142), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2255](/us/stat/133/2255).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subtitle, referred to in text, is subtitle A of title LXXI of div. F of [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2244](/us/stat/133/2244), which enacted this subchapter and sections 262p–13, 286yy, 9221b, and 9221c of this title, amended sections 9202, 9212, 9214, 9223, 9224, 9228, 9241, and 9251 of this title, repealed sections 262p–13 and 286yy of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 262p–13 and 286yy of this title. For complete classification of this subtitle to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and Enforcement Act of 2019, and also as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, and not as part of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 which comprises this chapter.
