---
title: "§ 1741. Annual reports"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1741"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1741"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–579, title III, § 311](/us/pl/94/579/tIII/s311), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2768](/us/stat/90/2768); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 16(d)(3)](/us/pl/103/437/s16/d/3), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4595](/us/stat/108/4595).)"
---
# § 1741. Annual reports

##### § 1741. Annual reports

(a) Purpose; time for submission For the purpose of providing information that will aid Congress in carrying out its oversight responsibilities for public lands programs and for other purposes, the Secretary shall prepare a report in accordance with subsections (b) and (c) and submit it to the Congress no later than one hundred and twenty days after the end of each fiscal year beginning with the report for fiscal year 1979.

(b) Format A list of programs and specific information to be included in the report as well as the format of the report shall be developed by the Secretary after consulting with the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and shall be provided to the committees prior to the end of the second quarter of each fiscal year.

(c) Contents The report shall include, but not be limited to, program identification information, program evaluation information, and program budgetary information for the preceding current and succeeding fiscal years.

*([Pub. L. 94–579, title III, § 311](/us/pl/94/579/tIII/s311), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2768](/us/stat/90/2768); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 16(d)(3)](/us/pl/103/437/s16/d/3), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4595](/us/stat/108/4595).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate” for “Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House and Senate”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which the 9th item on page 112 identifies a reporting provision which, as subsequently amended, is contained in this section), see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance.
