---
title: "§ 746. Public lands and buildings; reservations; rights prior to July 1, 1902"
identifier: "USC-T48-S746"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section746"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1902, ch. 1383, § 1](/us/act/1902-07-01/ch1383/s1), [32 Stat. 731](/us/stat/32/731); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158).)"
---
# § 746. Public lands and buildings; reservations; rights prior to July 1, 1902

##### § 746. Public lands and buildings; reservations; rights prior to July 1, 1902

All public lands and buildings, not including harbor areas and navigable streams and bodies of water and the submerged lands underlying the same, owned by the United States in the island of Puerto Rico and not reserved by the President of the United States prior to July 1, 1903, pursuant to authority vested in him by law, are granted to the government of Puerto Rico, to be held or disposed of for the use and benefit of the people of said island. Said grant is upon the express condition that the government of Puerto Rico, by proper authority, release to the United States any interest or claim it may have in or upon the lands or buildings reserved by the President as mentioned herein. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to affect any legal or equitable rights acquired by the government of Puerto Rico or by any other party, under any contract, lease, or license made by the United States authorities prior to the 1st day of May 1900.

*([July 1, 1902, ch. 1383, § 1](/us/act/1902-07-01/ch1383/s1), [32 Stat. 731](/us/stat/32/731); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Puerto Rico” substituted in text for “Porto Rico” pursuant to act May 17, 1932, which is classified to [section 731a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s731a).

#### Law Library

[Act July 1, 1902, ch. 1383, § 2](/us/act/1902-07-01/ch1383/s2), [32 Stat. 732](/us/stat/32/732), made an appropriation for the purchase of a law library for the use of the United States District Court for Puerto Rico.

#### Expenses and Term of Resident Commissioner

[Act July 1, 1902, ch. 1383, § 3](/us/act/1902-07-01/ch1383/s3), [32 Stat. 732](/us/stat/32/732), related to allowance of traveling expenses in addition to salary to the resident commissioner from Puerto Rico, and to the commencement of his term.
