---
title: "§ 15022. State allotments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15022"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15022"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–402, title I, § 122](/us/pl/106/402/tI/s122), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1693](/us/stat/114/1693); [Pub. L. 108–154, § 3(a)](/us/pl/108/154/s3/a), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1934](/us/stat/117/1934).)"
---
# § 15022. State allotments

##### § 15022. State allotments

(a) Allotments

(1) In general

(A) Authority For each fiscal year, the Secretary shall, in accordance with regulations and this paragraph, allot the sums appropriated for such year under [section 15029 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15029) among the States on the basis of—

of the respective States.

(i) the population;

(ii) the extent of need for services for individuals with developmental disabilities; and

(iii) the financial need,

(B) Use of funds Sums allotted to the States under this section shall be used to pay for the Federal share of the cost of carrying out projects in accordance with State plans approved under [section 15024 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15024) for the provision under such plans of services for individuals with developmental disabilities.

(2) Adjustments The Secretary may make adjustments in the amounts of State allotments based on clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of paragraph (1)(A) not more often than annually. The Secretary shall notify each State of any adjustment made under this paragraph and the percentage of the total sums appropriated under [section 15029 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15029) that the adjusted allotment represents not later than 6 months before the beginning of the fiscal year in which such adjustment is to take effect.

(3) Minimum allotment for appropriations less than or equal to $70,000,000

(A) In general Except as provided in paragraph (4), for any fiscal year the allotment under this section—

(i) to each of American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands may not be less than $210,000; and

(ii) to any State not described in clause (i) may not be less than $400,000, the amount received by the State for the previous year, or the amount of Federal appropriations received in fiscal year 2000, 2001, or 2002, whichever is greater.

(B) Reduction of allotment Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if the aggregate of the amounts to be allotted to the States pursuant to subparagraph (A) for any fiscal year exceeds the total amount appropriated under [section 15029 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15029) for such fiscal year, the amount to be allotted to each State for such fiscal year shall be proportionately reduced.

(4) Minimum allotment for appropriations in excess of $70,000,000

(A) In general In any case in which the total amount appropriated under [section 15029 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15029) for a fiscal year is more than $70,000,000, the allotment under this section for such fiscal year—

(i) to each of American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands may not be less than $220,000; and

(ii) to any State not described in clause (i) may not be less than $450,000, the amount received by the State for the previous year, or the amount of Federal appropriations received in fiscal year 2000, 2001, or 2002, whichever is greater.

(B) Reduction of allotment The requirements of paragraph (3)(B) shall apply with respect to amounts to be allotted to States under subparagraph (A), in the same manner and to the same extent as such requirements apply with respect to amounts to be allotted to States under paragraph (3)(A).

(5) State supports, services, and other activities In determining, for purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(ii), the extent of need in any State for services for individuals with developmental disabilities, the Secretary shall take into account the scope and extent of the services, supports, and assistance described, pursuant to [section 15024(c)(3)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15024/c/3/A), in the State plan of the State.

(6) Increase in allotments In any year in which the total amount appropriated under [section 15029 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15029) for a fiscal year exceeds the total amount appropriated under such section (or a corresponding provision) for the preceding fiscal year by a percentage greater than the most recent percentage change in the Consumer Price Index published by the Secretary of Labor under [section 720(c)(1) of title 29](/us/usc/t29/s720/c/1) (if the percentage change indicates an increase), the Secretary shall increase each of the minimum allotments described in paragraphs (3) and (4). The Secretary shall increase each minimum allotment by an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount of such minimum allotment (including any increases in such minimum allotment under this paragraph (or a corresponding provision) for prior fiscal years) as the amount that is equal to the difference between—

bears to the total amount appropriated under [section 15029 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15029) (or a corresponding provision) for such preceding fiscal year.

(A) the total amount appropriated under [section 15029 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15029) for the fiscal year for which the increase in the minimum allotment is being made; minus

(B) the total amount appropriated under [section 15029 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15029) (or a corresponding provision) for the immediately preceding fiscal year,

(b) Unobligated funds Any amount paid to a State for a fiscal year and remaining unobligated at the end of such year shall remain available to such State for the next fiscal year for the purposes for which such amount was paid.

(c) Obligation of funds For the purposes of this part, State Interagency Agreements are considered valid obligations for the purpose of obligating Federal funds allotted to the State under this part.

(d) Cooperative efforts between States If a State plan approved in accordance with [section 15024 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15024) provides for cooperative or joint effort between or among States or agencies, public or private, in more than 1 State, portions of funds allotted to 1 or more States described in this subsection may be combined in accordance with the agreements between the States or agencies involved.

(e) Reallotments

(1) In general If the Secretary determines that an amount of an allotment to a State for a period (of a fiscal year or longer) will not be required by the State during the period for the purpose for which the allotment was made, the Secretary may reallot the amount.

(2) Timing The Secretary may make such a reallotment from time to time, on such date as the Secretary may fix, but not earlier than 30 days after the Secretary has published notice of the intention of the Secretary to make the reallotment in the Federal Register.

(3) Amounts The Secretary shall reallot the amount to other States with respect to which the Secretary has not made that determination. The Secretary shall reallot the amount in proportion to the original allotments of the other States for such fiscal year, but shall reduce such proportionate amount for any of the other States to the extent the proportionate amount exceeds the sum that the Secretary estimates the State needs and will be able to use during such period.

(4) Reallotment of reductions The Secretary shall similarly reallot the total of the reductions among the States whose proportionate amounts were not so reduced.

(5) Treatment Any amount reallotted to a State under this subsection for a fiscal year shall be deemed to be a part of the allotment of the State under subsection (a) for such fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 106–402, title I, § 122](/us/pl/106/402/tI/s122), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1693](/us/stat/114/1693); [Pub. L. 108–154, § 3(a)](/us/pl/108/154/s3/a), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1934](/us/stat/117/1934).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2003—Subsec. (a)(3)(A)(ii), (4)(A)(ii). [Pub. L. 108–154](/us/pl/108/154) inserted before period at end “, the amount received by the State for the previous year, or the amount of Federal appropriations received in fiscal year 2000, 2001, or 2002, whichever is greater”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–154, § 3(b)](/us/pl/108/154/s3/b), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1934](/us/stat/117/1934), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on October 1, 2003 and apply to allotments beginning in fiscal year 2004.”
