---
title: "§ 20125. Grants to combat violent crimes on campuses"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20125"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20125"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–162, title III, § 304](/us/pl/109/162/tIII/s304), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3013](/us/stat/119/3013); [Pub. L. 109–271](/us/pl/109/271), §§ 1(c)(1), 4(b), (d), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 750](/us/stat/120/750), 758; [Pub. L. 113–4, title III, § 303](/us/pl/113/4/tIII/s303), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 87](/us/stat/127/87); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tIII/s303/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 866](/us/stat/136/866).)"
---
# § 20125. Grants to combat violent crimes on campuses

##### § 20125. Grants to combat violent crimes on campuses

(a) Grants authorized

(1) In general The Attorney General is authorized to make grants to institutions of higher education, for use by such institutions or consortia consisting of campus personnel, student organizations, campus administrators, security personnel, and regional crisis centers affiliated with the institution, to develop and strengthen effective security and investigation strategies to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campuses, to develop and strengthen victim services in cases involving such crimes on campuses, which may include partnerships with local criminal justice authorities and community-based victim services agencies, and to develop and strengthen prevention education and awareness programs.

(2) Equitable participation The Attorney General shall make every effort to ensure—

(A) the equitable participation of private and public institutions of higher education in the activities assisted under this section;

(B) the equitable geographic distribution of grants under this section among the various regions of the United States; and

(C) the equitable distribution of grants under this section to tribal colleges and universities and traditionally black colleges and universities.

(b) Use of grant funds Grant funds awarded under this section may be used for the following purposes:

(1) To provide personnel, training, technical assistance, data collection, and other equipment with respect to the increased apprehension, investigation, and adjudication of persons committing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campus.

(2) To develop, strengthen, and implement campus policies, protocols, and services that more effectively identify and respond to the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including the use of technology to commit these crimes, and to train campus administrators, campus security personnel, and all participants in the resolution process, including personnel from the Title IX coordinator’s office, student conduct office, and campus disciplinary or judicial boards on such policies, protocols, and services that promote a prompt, fair, and impartial investigation.

(3) To provide prevention and education programming about domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including technological abuse and reproductive and sexual coercion, that is age-appropriate, culturally relevant, ongoing, delivered in multiple venues on campus, accessible, promotes respectful nonviolent behavior as a social norm, and engages men and boys. Such programming should be developed in partnership or collaboratively with experts in intimate partner and sexual violence prevention and intervention.

(4) To develop, enlarge, or strengthen victim services programs and population specific services on the campuses of the institutions involved, including programs providing legal, medical, or psychological counseling, for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, and to improve delivery of victim assistance on campus. To the extent practicable, such an institution shall collaborate with any victim service providers in the community in which the institution is located. If appropriate victim services programs are not available in the community or are not accessible to students, the institution shall, to the extent practicable, provide a victim services program on campus or create a victim services program in collaboration with a community-based organization. The institution shall use not less than 20 percent of the funds made available through the grant for a victim services program provided in accordance with this paragraph, regardless of whether the services are provided by the institution or in coordination with community victim service providers.

(5) To create, disseminate, or otherwise provide assistance and information about victims’ options on and off campus to bring disciplinary or other legal action, including assistance to victims in immigration matters.

(6) To develop, install, or expand data collection and communication systems, including computerized systems, linking campus security to the local law enforcement for the purpose of identifying and tracking arrests, protection orders, violations of protection orders, prosecutions, and convictions with respect to the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campus.

(7) To provide capital improvements (including improved lighting and communications facilities but not including the construction of buildings) on campuses to address the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.

(8) To support improved coordination among campus administrators, campus security personnel, and local law enforcement to reduce domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campus.

(9) To develop or adapt, provide, and disseminate developmental, culturally appropriate, and linguistically accessible print or electronic materials to address both prevention and intervention in domestic violence, dating violence, sexual violence, and stalking.

(10) To develop or adapt and disseminate population specific strategies and projects for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking from underserved populations on campus.

(11) To train campus health centers and appropriate campus faculty, such as academic advisors or professionals who deal with students on a daily basis, on how to recognize and respond to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including training health providers on how to provide universal education to all members of the campus community on the impacts of violence on health and unhealthy relationships and how providers can support ongoing outreach efforts.

(12) To train campus personnel in how to use a victim-centered, trauma-informed interview technique, which means asking questions of a student or a campus employee who is reported to be a victim of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking, in a manner that is focused on the experience of the reported victim, that does not judge or blame the reported victim for the alleged crime, and that is informed by evidence-based research on trauma response. To the extent practicable, campus personnel shall allow the reported victim to participate in a recorded interview and to receive a copy of the recorded interview.

(13) To develop and implement restorative practices (as defined in [section 12291(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12291/a)).

(c) Applications

(1) In general In order to be eligible to be awarded a grant under this section for any fiscal year, an institution of higher education shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time and in such manner as the Attorney General shall prescribe.

(2) Contents Each application submitted under paragraph (1) shall—

(A) describe the need for grant funds and the plan for implementation for any of the purposes described in subsection (b);

(B) include proof that the institution of higher education collaborated with victim service providers, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking victim services programs in the community in which the institution is located;

(C) describe the characteristics of the population being served, including type of campus, demographics of the population, and number of students;

(D) describe how underserved populations in the campus community will be adequately served, including the provision of relevant population specific services;

(E) provide measurable goals and expected results from the use of the grant funds;

(F) provide assurances that the Federal funds made available under this section shall be used to supplement and, to the extent practical, increase the level of funds that would, in the absence of Federal funds, be made available by the institution for the purposes described in subsection (b); and

(G) include such other information and assurances as the Attorney General reasonably determines to be necessary.

(3) Compliance with campus crime reporting required No institution of higher education shall be eligible for a grant under this section unless such institution is in compliance with the requirements of [section 1092(f) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1092/f). Up to $200,000 of the total amount of grant funds appropriated under this section for fiscal years 2023 through 2027 may be used to provide technical assistance in complying with the mandatory reporting requirements of [section 1092(f) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1092/f).

(d) General terms and conditions

(1) Nonmonetary assistance In addition to the assistance provided under this section, the Attorney General may request any Federal agency to use the agency’s authorities and the resources granted to the agency under Federal law (including personnel, equipment, supplies, facilities, and managerial, technical, and advisory services) in support of campus security, and investigation and victim service efforts.

(2) Grantee reporting

(A) Annual report Each institution of higher education receiving a grant under this section shall submit a performance report to the Attorney General. The Attorney General shall suspend funding under this section for an institution of higher education if the institution fails to submit such a report.

(B) Final report Upon completion of the grant period under this section, the institution shall file a performance report with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Education explaining the activities carried out under this section together with an assessment of the effectiveness of those activities in achieving the purposes described in subsection (b).

(3) Grantee minimum requirements Each grantee shall comply with the following minimum requirements during the grant period:

(A) The grantee shall create a coordinated community response including both organizations external to the institution and relevant divisions of the institution.

(B) The grantee shall establish a mandatory prevention and education program on domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking for all students.

(C) The grantee shall train all campus law enforcement to respond effectively to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.

(D) The grantee shall train all participants in the resolution process, including the campus disciplinary board, the title IX coordinator’s office, and the student conduct office, to respond effectively to situations involving domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

(4) Report to Congress Not later than 180 days after the end of the fiscal year for which grants are awarded under this section, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report that includes—

(A) the number of grants, and the amount of funds, distributed under this section;

(B) a summary of the purposes for which the grants were provided and an evaluation of the progress made under the grant;

(C) a statistical summary of the persons served, detailing the nature of victimization, and providing data on age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, ethnicity, language, disability, relationship to offender, geographic distribution, and type of campus; and

(D) an evaluation of the effectiveness of programs funded under this part.11 See References in Text note below.

(e) Authorization of appropriations For the purpose of carrying out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027, of which not less than 10 percent shall be made available for grants to historically Black colleges and universities.

(f) Omitted

(g) Definitions and grant conditions In this section the definitions and grant conditions in [section 12291 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12291) shall apply.

*([Pub. L. 109–162, title III, § 304](/us/pl/109/162/tIII/s304), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3013](/us/stat/119/3013); [Pub. L. 109–271](/us/pl/109/271), §§ 1(c)(1), 4(b), (d), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 750](/us/stat/120/750), 758; [Pub. L. 113–4, title III, § 303](/us/pl/113/4/tIII/s303), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 87](/us/stat/127/87); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tIII/s303/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 866](/us/stat/136/866).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in subsec. (d)(4)(D), appearing in the original, is unidentifiable because title III of [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) does not contain parts.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 304 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s304). Subsec. (f) of [section 304 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s304) repealed [section 1152 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1152), Education.

Section was formerly classified to [section 14045b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14045b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/1), redesignated par. (3) as (2) and struck out former par. (2). Prior to amendment, text of par. (2) read as follows: “The Attorney General shall award grants and contracts under this section on a competitive basis for a period of 3 years. The Attorney General, through the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women, shall award the grants in amounts of not more than $300,000 for individual institutions of higher education and not more than $1,000,000 for consortia of such institutions.”

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/2/A), amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “To develop, strengthen, and implement campus policies, protocols, and services that more effectively identify and respond to the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking, including the use of technology to commit these crimes, and to train campus administrators, campus security personnel, and personnel serving on campus disciplinary or judicial boards on such policies, protocols, and services. Within 90 days after January 5, 2006, the Attorney General shall issue and make available minimum standards of training relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campus, for all campus security personnel and personnel serving on campus disciplinary or judicial boards.”

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/2/B), amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (3) read as follows: “To implement and operate education programs for the prevention of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.”

Subsec. (b)(9). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(2)(C)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/2/C), substituted “, provide, and disseminate” for “and provide”.

Subsec. (b)(10). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(2)(D)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/2/D), inserted “and disseminate” after “or adapt”.

Subsec. (b)(11) to (13). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(2)(E)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/2/E), added pars. (11) to (13).

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/3), substituted “2023 through 2027” for “2014 through 2018”.

Subsec. (d)(3)(B). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(4)(A)(i)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/4/A/i), substituted “for all students” for “for all incoming students”.

Subsec. (d)(3)(D). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(4)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/4/A/ii), added subpar. (D) and struck out former subpar. (D). Prior to amendment, subpar. (D) read as follows: “The grantee shall train all members of campus disciplinary boards to respond effectively to situations involving domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.”

Subsec. (d)(4)(C). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(4)(B)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/4/B), inserted “sexual orientation, gender identity,” after “sex,”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 303(a)(5)](/us/pl/117/103/s303/a/5), substituted “$15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027, of which not less than 10 percent shall be made available for grants to historically Black colleges and universities” for “$12,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018”.

2013—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(1)(A)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/1/A), substituted “stalking on campuses,” for “stalking on campuses, and” and “crimes on” for “crimes against women on” and inserted “, and to develop and strengthen prevention education and awareness programs” before period at end.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(1)(B)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/1/B), substituted “$300,000” for “$500,000”.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(2)(A)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/2/A), inserted “, strengthen,” after “To develop” and “including the use of technology to commit these crimes,” after “sexual assault and stalking,”.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(2)(B)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/2/B), inserted “and population specific services” after “strengthen victim services programs” and “, regardless of whether the services are provided by the institution or in coordination with community victim service providers” before period at end, and substituted “victim service providers” for “entities carrying out nonprofit and other victim services programs, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking victim services programs”.

Subsec. (b)(9), (10). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(2)(C)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/2/C), added pars. (9) and (10).

Subsec. (c)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(3)(A)(i)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/3/A/i), substituted “victim service providers” for “any non-profit, nongovernmental entities carrying out other victim services programs”.

Subsec. (c)(2)(D) to (G). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(3)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/3/A/ii), (iii), added subpar. (D) and redesignated former subpars. (D) to (F) as (E) to (G), respectively.

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(3)(B)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/3/B), substituted “2014 through 2018” for “2007 through 2011”.

Subsec. (d)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(4)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/4), added par. (3) and redesignated former par. (3) as (4).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 303(5)](/us/pl/113/4/s303/5), substituted “there is authorized to be appropriated $12,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.” for “there are authorized to be appropriated $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2007 and $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2011.”

2006—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 109–271, § 4(b)](/us/pl/109/271/s4/b), inserted first sentence and struck out former first sentence which read as follows: “To train campus administrators, campus security personnel, and personnel serving on campus disciplinary or judicial boards to develop and implement campus policies, protocols, and services that more effectively identify and respond to the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.”

Subsec. (d)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 109–271, § 4(d)](/us/pl/109/271/s4/d), struck out “biennial” before “performance report”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 109–271, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/271/s1/c/1), added subsec. (g).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4/s4), set out as a note under [section 2261 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2261), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until the beginning of fiscal year 2007, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s4), set out as an Effective Date of 2006 Amendment note under [section 10261 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10261).
