---
title: "§ 3508. Admission of essential aliens; limitation on number"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 7](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s7), formerly § 8, [63 Stat. 212](/us/stat/63/212); renumbered § 7, [Pub. L. 85–507, § 21(b)(2)](/us/pl/85/507/s21/b/2), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 337](/us/stat/72/337); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 308(f)(6)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s308/f/6), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–622](/us/stat/110/3009-622).)"
---
# § 3508. Admission of essential aliens; limitation on number

##### § 3508. Admission of essential aliens; limitation on number

Whenever the Director, the Attorney General, and the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization shall determine that the admission of a particular alien into the United States for permanent residence is in the interest of national security or essential to the furtherance of the national intelligence mission, such alien and his immediate family shall be admitted to the United States for permanent residence without regard to their inadmissibility under the immigration or any other laws and regulations, or to the failure to comply with such laws and regulations pertaining to admissibility: *Provided*, That the number of aliens and members of their immediate families admitted to the United States under the authority of this section shall in no case exceed one hundred persons in any one fiscal year.

*([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 7](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s7), formerly § 8, [63 Stat. 212](/us/stat/63/212); renumbered § 7, [Pub. L. 85–507, § 21(b)(2)](/us/pl/85/507/s21/b/2), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 337](/us/stat/72/337); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 308(f)(6)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s308/f/6), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–622](/us/stat/110/3009-622).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403h of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403h) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7 of act June 20, 1949, was renumbered section 6 and is classified to [section 3507 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3507).

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208) substituted “that the admission” for “that the entry”, “shall be admitted to” for “shall be given entry into”, and “families admitted to” for “families entering”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208) effective, with certain transitional provisions, on the first day of the first month beginning more than 180 days after Sept. 30, 1996, see [section 309 of Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208/s309), set out as a note under [section 1101 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1101), Aliens and Nationality.

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1551), Aliens and Nationality.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Change of Name

Ex. Ord. No. 6166, § 14, June 10, 1933, set out as a note under [section 901 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s901), Government Organization and Employees, consolidated Bureaus of Immigration and Naturalization of Department of Labor to form an Immigration and Naturalization Service in Department of Labor, to be administered by a Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, which was then transferred from Department of Labor to Department of Justice by Reorg. Plan No. V of 1940, eff. June 14, 1940, 5 F.R. 2223, [54 Stat. 1238](/us/stat/54/1238), set out in the Appendix to Title 5. Accordingly, “Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization” was substituted for “Commissioner of Immigration”.

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all other officers of Department of Justice and functions of all agencies and employees of such Department, with a few exceptions, were transferred to Attorney General, with power vested in the Attorney General to authorize their performance or performance of any of the Attorney General’s functions by any of such officers, agencies, and employees, by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3173, [64 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/64/1261), formerly set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 8(a)](/us/pl/89/554/s8/a), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 662](/us/stat/80/662). See sections 509 and 510 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
