---
title: "§ 1725b. Forest Service hire authority"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1725b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1725b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12518](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12518), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 5001](/us/stat/132/5001).)"
---
# § 1725b. Forest Service hire authority

##### § 1725b. Forest Service hire authority

(a) In general The Secretary of Agriculture may appoint, without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title, a qualified candidate described in subsection (b) directly to a position with the Department of Agriculture, Forest Service for which the candidate meets Office of Personnel Management qualification standards.

(b) Qualifications Subsection (a) applies to a former resource assistant (as defined in section 203 of the Public Land Corps Act 11 See References in Text note below. ([16 U.S.C. 1722](/us/usc/t16/s1722))) who—

(1) completed a rigorous internship with a land managing agency, such as the Forest Service Resource Assistant Program;

(2) successfully fulfilled the requirements of the internship program; and

(3) earned an undergraduate or graduate degree from an accredited institution of higher education (as defined in [section 1001 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001)).

(c) Limitation The direct hire authority under this section may not be exercised with respect to a specific qualified candidate after the end of the 2-year period beginning on the date on which the candidate completed the undergraduate or graduate degree, as the case may be, or has successfully fulfilled the requirements of the internship program, whichever is later.

*([Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12518](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12518), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 5001](/us/stat/132/5001).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 203 of the Public Land Corps Act, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means section 203 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993, title II of [Pub. L. 91–378](/us/pl/91/378), which is classified to [section 1722 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1722).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 and not as part of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 which comprises this subchapter.
