---
title: "§ 3351b. Limitations on determinations regarding certain security classifications"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3351b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3351b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXIII, § 6310](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXIII/s6310), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2190](/us/stat/133/2190).)"
---
# § 3351b. Limitations on determinations regarding certain security classifications

##### § 3351b. Limitations on determinations regarding certain security classifications

(a) Prohibition An officer of an element of the intelligence community who has been nominated by the President for a position that requires the advice and consent of the Senate may not make a classification decision with respect to information related to such officer’s nomination.

(b) Classification determinations

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), in a case in which an officer described in subsection (a) has been nominated as described in such subsection and classification authority rests with the officer or another officer who reports directly to such officer, a classification decision with respect to information relating to the officer shall be made by the Director of National Intelligence.

(2) Nominations of Director of National Intelligence In a case described in paragraph (1) in which the officer nominated is the Director of National Intelligence, the classification decision shall be made by the Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence.

(c) Reports Whenever the Director or the Principal Deputy Director makes a decision under subsection (b), the Director or the Principal Deputy Director, as the case may be, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report detailing the reasons for the decision.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXIII, § 6310](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXIII/s6310), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2190](/us/stat/133/2190).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “intelligence community” and “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in text, see [section 5003 of div. E of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/dE/s5003), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
