---
title: "§ 11272. Lease of surplus Federal facilities for use as runaway and homeless youth centers or as transitional living youth shelter facilities"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11272"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11272"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 381](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s381), formerly § 316, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 655(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s655/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2124](/us/stat/98/2124); renumbered § 342 and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7273(b)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7273/b), (e)(2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4454](/us/stat/102/4454), 4455; renumbered § 372, [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(g)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/g/1/B/ii), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5022](/us/stat/106/5022); "
---
# § 11272. Lease of surplus Federal facilities for use as runaway and homeless youth centers or as transitional living youth shelter facilities

##### § 11272. Lease of surplus Federal facilities for use as runaway and homeless youth centers or as transitional living youth shelter facilities

(a) Conditions of lease arrangements The Secretary may enter into cooperative lease arrangements with States, localities, and nonprofit private agencies to provide for the use of appropriate surplus Federal facilities transferred by the General Services Administration to the Department of Health and Human Services for use as runaway and homeless youth centers or as transitional living youth shelter facilities if the Secretary determines that—

(1) the applicant involved has suitable financial support necessary to operate a runaway and homeless youth center or transitional living youth project, as the case may be, under this subchapter;

(2) the applicant is able to demonstrate the program expertise required to operate such center in compliance with this subchapter, whether or not the applicant is receiving a grant under this part; and

(3) the applicant has consulted with and obtained the approval of the chief executive officer of the unit of local government in which the facility is located.

(b) Period of availability; rent-free use; structural changes: Federal ownership and consent

(1) Each facility made available under this section shall be made available for a period of not less than 2 years, and no rent or fee shall be charged to the applicant in connection with use of such facility.

(2) Any structural modifications or additions to facilities made available under this section shall become the property of the United States. All such modifications or additions may be made only after receiving the prior written consent of the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Department of Health and Human Services.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 381](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s381), formerly § 316, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 655(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s655/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2124](/us/stat/98/2124); renumbered § 342 and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7273(b)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7273/b), (e)(2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4454](/us/stat/102/4454), 4455; renumbered § 372, [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(g)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/g/1/B/ii), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5022](/us/stat/106/5022); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(b) [title I, § 129(a)(2)(E)]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/b/tI/s129/a/2/E), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–50](/us/stat/112/2681-50), 2681–76; renumbered § 381, [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(q)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/q), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1042](/us/stat/113/1042).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5714b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5714b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 381 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s381) was renumbered section 382 and is classified to [section 11273 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11273).

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) substituted “unit of local government” for “unit of general local government”.

1988—[Pub. L. 100–690, § 7273(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/s7273/b/1), inserted “or as transitional living youth shelter facilities” at end of section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 7273(b)(2)](/us/pl/100/690/s7273/b/2), inserted “or as transitional living youth shelter facilities” after “runaway and homeless youth centers” in introductory provisions and “or transitional living youth project, as the case may be, under this subchapter” after “homeless youth center” in par. (1).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) effective Oct. 1, 1988, see [section 7296(a) of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s7296/a), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 670(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s670/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1984 Amendment note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).
