---
title: "§ 19153. Policies for review of Federal research awards"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19153"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19153"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title V, § 10503](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tV/s10503), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/136/1610).)"
---
# § 19153. Policies for review of Federal research awards

##### § 19153. Policies for review of Federal research awards

(a) Assessment of policies Federal research agencies shall regularly assess, and update as necessary, policies, and practices to remove or reduce cultural and institutional barriers limiting the recruitment, retention, and success of groups historically underrepresented in STEM research careers, including policies and practices relevant to the unbiased review of Federal research applications.

(b) Considerations and activities In carrying out the requirements under subsection (a), Federal research agencies shall—

(1) review current levels of participation of groups historically underrepresented in STEM in peer-review panels and consider approaches for expanding their participation;

(2) analyze the data collected under [section 19152 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s19152), including funding rates of proposals from all groups, including those historically underrepresented in STEM;

(3) collect and disseminate best practices to remove or reduce cultural and institutional barriers limiting the recruitment, retention, and success of groups historically underrepresented in STEM research careers; and

(4) implement evidence-based policies and practices to achieve the goals of this section.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title V, § 10503](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tV/s10503), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/136/1610).)*
