---
title: "§ 10271. Misuse of Federal assistance"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10271"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10271"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1101](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1101), as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1219](/us/stat/93/1219); amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609E(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609E/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2097](/us/stat/98/2097).)"
---
# § 10271. Misuse of Federal assistance

##### § 10271. Misuse of Federal assistance

Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud or endeavors to embezzle, willfully misapply, steal, or obtain by fraud any funds, assets, or property which are the subject of a grant or contract or other form of assistance pursuant to this chapter, whether received directly or indirectly from the Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, the Bureau of Justice Statistics, or whoever receives, conceals, or retains such funds, assets or property with intent to convert such funds, assets or property to his use or gain, knowing such funds, assets, or property has been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen or obtained by fraud, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1101](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1101), as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1219](/us/stat/93/1219); amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609E(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609E/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2097](/us/stat/98/2097).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3795 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3795), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Another [section 1101 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s1101), title VI, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 236](/us/stat/82/236), is classified as a note under [section 532 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s532), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) substituted “Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance” for “Law Enforcement Assistance Administration”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 609AA(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609AA/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
