---
title: "§ 2503. Technical assistance"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–530, § 4](/us/pl/102/530/s4), Oct. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 3466](/us/stat/106/3466).)"
---
# § 2503. Technical assistance

##### § 2503. Technical assistance

(a) In general With funds appropriated to carry out this section, the Secretary shall make grants to community-based organizations to provide technical assistance to employers and labor unions selected under subsection (b). Such technical assistance may include—

(1) developing outreach and orientation sessions to recruit women into the employers’ apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations;

(2) developing preapprenticeable occupations or nontraditional skills training to prepare women for apprenticeable occupations or nontraditional occupations;

(3) providing ongoing orientations for employers, unions, and workers on creating a successful environment for women in apprenticeable occupations or nontraditional occupations;

(4) setting up support groups and facilitating networks for women in nontraditional occupations on or off the job site to improve their retention;

(5) setting up a local computerized data base referral system to maintain a current list of tradeswomen who are available for work;

(6) serving as a liaison between tradeswomen and employers and tradeswomen and labor unions to address workplace issues related to gender; and

(7) conducting exit interviews with tradeswomen to evaluate their on-the-job experience and to assess the effectiveness of the program.

(b) Selection of employer and labor unions The Secretary shall select a total of 50 employers or labor unions to receive technical assistance provided with grants made under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 102–530, § 4](/us/pl/102/530/s4), Oct. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 3466](/us/stat/106/3466).)*
