---
title: "§ 70909. Relationship to Federal agencies"
identifier: "USC-T36-S70909"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section70909"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1358](/us/stat/112/1358); [Pub. L. 116–7, § 10](/us/pl/116/7/s10), Feb. 21, 2019, [133 Stat. 481](/us/stat/133/481).)"
---
# § 70909. Relationship to Federal agencies

##### § 70909. Relationship to Federal agencies

(a) In General.— On request of the board of directors, the FFA may collaborate with Federal agencies, including the Department of Education and the Department of Agriculture on matters of mutual interest and benefit.

(b) Agency Assistance.— Those Federal agencies may make personnel, services, and facilities available to administer or assist in the administration of the activities of the FFA.

(c) Agency Compensation.— Personnel of the Federal agencies may not receive compensation from the FFA for their services, except that travel and other legitimate expenses as defined by the Federal agencies and approved by the board may be paid.

(d) Cooperation With State Boards.— The Federal agencies also may cooperate with State boards and other organizations for career and technical education to assist in the promotion of activities of the FFA.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1358](/us/stat/112/1358); [Pub. L. 116–7, § 10](/us/pl/116/7/s10), Feb. 21, 2019, [133 Stat. 481](/us/stat/133/481).)*

The words “Secretary of Education” and “Secretary” are substituted for “United States Commissioner of Education”, “Commissioner of Education”, and “Commissioner”, and the words “Department of Education” are substituted for “Office of Education”, in [section 18 of the Act of August 30, 1950](/us/act/1950-08-30/s18) (ch. 823, [64 Stat. 567](/us/stat/64/567)), because of 20:3441 and 3507. The words “with the approval of the Federal Security Administrator” and “with the approval of the Administrator” are omitted because the functions of the Federal Security Administrator were transferred to the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 5 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1953 (5 App. U.S.C.), and were subsequently transferred to the Secretary of Education by 20:3441. See also 20:3507. Substitution of a reference to the “Secretary of Education” would result in a requirement of the Secretary’s own approval. The word “activities” (the first time it appears) is substituted for “business and activities” for consistency in the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 70909 | 36:288. | Aug. 30, 1950, ch. 823, § 18, 64 Stat. 567. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—[Pub. L. 116–7](/us/pl/116/7) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “On request of the board of directors of the corporation, the Secretary of Education may make personnel, services, and facilities of the Department of Education available to administer or assist in the administration of the activities of the corporation. Personnel of the Department may not receive compensation from the corporation for their services, except that travel and other legitimate expenses as defined by the Secretary and approved by the board may be paid. The Secretary also may cooperate with the State boards for vocational education to assist in the promotion of the activities of the corporation.”
