---
title: "§ 8006. Education and awareness program"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8006"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8006"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title XIV, § 1407](/us/pl/110/140/tXIV/s1407), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1799](/us/stat/121/1799); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. BB, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/117/328/dBB/tIV/s403), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5563](/us/stat/136/5563).)"
---
# § 8006. Education and awareness program

##### § 8006. Education and awareness program

(a) In general The Commission shall establish and carry out an education and awareness program to inform the public of methods to prevent drowning and entrapment in swimming pools and spas. In carrying out the program, the Commission shall develop—

(1) educational materials designed for swimming pool and spa manufacturers, service companies, and supply retail outlets, including guidance on barrier and drain cover inspection, maintenance, and replacement;

(2) educational materials designed for swimming pool and spa owners and operators, consumers, States, and Indian Tribes; and

(3) a national media campaign to promote awareness of swimming pool and spa safety.

(b) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Commission for fiscal year 2023 $2,500,000 to carry out the education and awareness program authorized by subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title XIV, § 1407](/us/pl/110/140/tXIV/s1407), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1799](/us/stat/121/1799); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. BB, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/117/328/dBB/tIV/s403), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5563](/us/stat/136/5563).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to establishment of a pool and spa safety education program.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
