---
title: "§ 1393. Applications; single State agency designation; essential planning services; plans for expenditure; final activities report and other necessary reports; records; accounting"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1393"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1393"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVII, § 1703, as added [Pub. L. 88–156, § 5](/us/pl/88/156/s5), Oct. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 275](/us/stat/77/275).)"
---
# § 1393. Applications; single State agency designation; essential planning services; plans for expenditure; final activities report and other necessary reports; records; accounting

##### § 1393. Applications; single State agency designation; essential planning services; plans for expenditure; final activities report and other necessary reports; records; accounting

(1) designates or establishes a single State agency, which may be an interdepartmental agency, as the sole agency for carrying out the purposes of this subchapter;

(2) indicates the manner in which provision will be made to assure full consideration of all aspects of services essential to planning for comprehensive State and community action to combat mental retardation, including services in the fields of education, employment, rehabilitation, welfare, health, and the law, and services provided through community programs for and institutions for the mentally retarded;

(3) sets forth its plans for expenditure of such grant, which plans provide reasonable assurance of carrying out the purposes of this subchapter;

(4) provides for submission of a final report of the activities of the State agency in carrying out the purposes of this subchapter, and for submission of such other reports, in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary may from time to time find necessary for carrying out the purposes of this subchapter and for keeping such records and affording such access thereto as he may find necessary to assure the correctness and verification of such reports; and

(5) provides for such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure proper disbursement of and accounting for funds paid to the State under this subchapter.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVII, § 1703, as added [Pub. L. 88–156, § 5](/us/pl/88/156/s5), Oct. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 275](/us/stat/77/275).)*
