---
title: "§ 300x–64. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300x–64"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300x–64"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1954, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s203/a), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 409](/us/stat/106/409); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1241(a)(12)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1241/a/12), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5678](/us/stat/136/5678).)"
---
# § 300x–64. Definitions

##### § 300x–64. Definitions

(a) Definitions for this subpart For purposes of this subpart:

(1) The term “program involved” means the program of grants established in section 300x or 300x–21 of this title, or both, as indicated by whether the State involved is receiving or is applying to receive a grant under section 300x or 300x–21 of this title, or both.

(2)

(A) The term “funding agreement”, with respect to a grant under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x), has the meaning given such term in [section 300x–8 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–8).

(B) The term “funding agreement”, with respect to a grant under [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21), has the meaning given such term in [section 300x–34 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–34).

(b) Definitions for this part For purposes of this part:

(1) The term “Comptroller General” means the Comptroller General of the United States.

(2) The term “State”, except as provided in sections 300x–7(c)(5) of this title and 300x–33(c)(5) of this title, means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each of the territories of the United States.

(3) The term “territories of the United States” means each of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Palau, the Marshall Islands, and Micronesia.

(4) The term “interim services”, in the case of an individual in need of treatment for substance use disorders who has been denied admission to a program of such treatment on the basis of the lack of the capacity of the program to admit the individual, means services for reducing the adverse health effects of such disorders, for promoting the health of the individual, and for reducing the risk of transmission of disease, which services are provided until the individual is admitted to such a program.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1954, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s203/a), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 409](/us/stat/106/409); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1241(a)(12)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1241/a/12), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5678](/us/stat/136/5678).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) substituted “substance use disorders” for “substance abuse” and “such disorders” for “such abuse”.
