---
title: "§ 210. Pay of senior enlisted members during terminal leave and while hospitalized"
identifier: "USC-T37-S210"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section210"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title VI, § 606(a)](/us/pl/102/190/dA/tVI/s606/a), Dec. 5, 1991, [105 Stat. 1374](/us/stat/105/1374); amended [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title VI, § 603(a)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tVI/s603/a), (b)(1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2540](/us/stat/110/2540); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VI, § 685(b)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVI/s685/b), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3325](/us/stat/119/3325); [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title X, § 1071(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tX/s1071/c/1), Oct. 17, "
---
# § 210. Pay of senior enlisted members during terminal leave and while hospitalized

##### § 210. Pay of senior enlisted members during terminal leave and while hospitalized

(a) A noncommissioned officer of an armed force who, immediately following the completion of service as the senior enlisted member of that armed force or the senior enlisted advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, is placed on terminal leave pending retirement shall be entitled, for not more than 60 days while in such status, to the rate of basic pay authorized for the senior enlisted member of that armed force.

(b) A noncommissioned officer of an armed force who is hospitalized and who, during or immediately before such hospitalization, completed service as the senior enlisted member of that armed force, shall continue to be entitled, for not more than 180 days while so hospitalized, to the rate of basic pay authorized for the senior enlisted member of that armed force.

(c) In this section, the term “senior enlisted member” means the following:

(1) The Sergeant Major of the Army.

(2) The Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy.

(3) The Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force.

(4) The Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps.

(5) The senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force.

(6) The Master Chief Petty Officer of the Coast Guard.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title VI, § 606(a)](/us/pl/102/190/dA/tVI/s606/a), Dec. 5, 1991, [105 Stat. 1374](/us/stat/105/1374); amended [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title VI, § 603(a)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tVI/s603/a), (b)(1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2540](/us/stat/110/2540); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VI, § 685(b)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVI/s685/b), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3325](/us/stat/119/3325); [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title X, § 1071(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tX/s1071/c/1), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2400](/us/stat/120/2400); [Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title VI, § 603(b)](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tVI/s603/b), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3398](/us/stat/128/3398); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 925(d)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s925/d), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3827](/us/stat/134/3827).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (c)(5), (6). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) added par. (5) and redesignated former par. (5) as (6).

2014—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–291, § 603(b)(1)](/us/pl/113/291/s603/b/1), inserted “or the senior enlisted advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or the Chief of the National Guard Bureau” after “that armed force” the first place appearing.

Subsec. (c)(6). [Pub. L. 113–291, § 603(b)(2)](/us/pl/113/291/s603/b/2), struck out par. (6) which read as follows: “The Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.”

2006—Subsec. (c)(6). [Pub. L. 109–364](/us/pl/109/364) substituted “Advisor to” for “Advisor for”.

[Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163) added par. (6).

1996—[Pub. L. 104–201, § 603(b)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/s603/b/1), substituted “Pay of senior enlisted members during terminal leave and while hospitalized” for “Pay of the senior noncommissioned officer of an armed force during terminal leave” in section catchline.

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 104–201, § 603(a)](/us/pl/104/201/s603/a), added subsec. (b) and redesignated former subsec. (b) as (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2014 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–291](/us/pl/113/291) effective on Dec. 19, 2014 and applicable with respect to months of service that begin on or after that date, see [section 603(e) of Pub. L. 113–291](/us/pl/113/291/s603/e), set out as a note under [section 1406 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1406), Armed Forces.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
