---
title: "§ 19117. Coordination of activities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19117"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19117"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10397](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10397), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1597](/us/stat/136/1597).)"
---
# § 19117. Coordination of activities

##### § 19117. Coordination of activities

(a) In general In carrying out the activities of the Directorate, the Director shall coordinate and collaborate as appropriate with the Secretary of Energy, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the heads of other Federal research agencies, as appropriate, to further the goals of this part.

(b) Avoid duplication The Director shall ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that activities carried out by the Directorate are not duplicative of activities supported by other parts of the Foundation or other relevant Federal agencies. In carrying out the activities prescribed by this division, the Director shall coordinate with the interagency working group established under part D of subchapter VI and heads of other Federal research agencies to ensure these activities enhance and complement, but do not constitute unnecessary duplication of effort and to ensure the responsible stewardship of funds.

(c) Emerging technologies After completion of the studies regarding emerging technologies conducted by the Secretary of Commerce under title XV of division FF of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 ([Public Law 116–260](/us/pl/116/260)), the Director shall consider the results of such studies in carrying out the activities of the Directorate.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10397](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10397), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1597](/us/stat/136/1597).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This division, referred to in subsec. (b), is div. B of [Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1399](/us/stat/136/1399), which enacted this chapter and enacted, amended, and repealed numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of div. B to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 18901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18901) and Tables.

Title XV of division FF of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, referred to in subsec. (c), is title XV of [Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF](/us/pl/116/260/dFF), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3276](/us/stat/134/3276), known as the American Competitiveness Of a More Productive Emerging Tech Economy Act, and also known as the American COMPETE Act, which is not classified to the Code.
