---
title: "§ 4272. Independent technical risk assessments"
identifier: "USC-T10-S4272"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4272"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 807(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s807/a/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2261](/us/stat/130/2261), § 2448b; amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, § 902(73)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tIX/s902/73), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/133/1552); renumbered § 4272 and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1847(e)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1847/e/2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4256](/us/stat/134/4256); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title VIII, "
---
# § 4272. Independent technical risk assessments

##### § 4272. Independent technical risk assessments

(a) In General.— With respect to a major defense acquisition program, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct or approve independent technical risk assessments before any decision to grant Milestone B approval for the program pursuant to [section 4252 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4252), any decision to enter into low-rate initial production or full-rate production, or at any other time considered appropriate by the Secretary, that includes the identification of any critical technologies or manufacturing processes that have not been successfully demonstrated in a relevant environment.

(b) Guidance.— The Secretary shall issue guidance and a framework for the conduct, execution, and approval of independent technical risk assessments.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 807(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s807/a/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2261](/us/stat/130/2261), § 2448b; amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title IX, § 902(73)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tIX/s902/73), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/133/1552); renumbered § 4272 and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1847(e)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1847/e/2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4256](/us/stat/134/4256); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title VIII, § 806(b)(1)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tVIII/s806/b/1), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1974](/us/stat/138/1974).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) struck out dash after “risk assessments” and par. (2) designation before “before any decision” and struck out par. (1) which read as follows: “before any decision to grant Milestone A approval for the program pursuant to [section 4251 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4251), that identifies critical technologies and manufacturing processes that need to be matured; and”.

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283, § 1847(e)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/s1847/e/2), renumbered [section 2448b of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2448b) as this section.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1847(e)(2)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/s1847/e/2/A), substituted “section 4251” for “section 2366a”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1847(e)(2)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s1847/e/2/B), substituted “section 4252” for “section 2366b”.

2019—[Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) added subsecs. (a) and (b) and struck out former subsecs. (a) and (b) which read as follows:

“(a) In General.—With respect to a major defense acquisition program, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an independent technical risk assessment is conducted—

“(1) before any decision to grant Milestone A approval for the program pursuant to [section 2366a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2366a), that identifies critical technologies and manufacturing processes that need to be matured; and

“(2) before any decision to grant Milestone B approval for the program pursuant to [section 2366b of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2366b), any decision to enter into low-rate initial production or full-rate production, or at any other time considered appropriate by the Secretary, that includes the identification of any critical technologies or manufacturing processes that have not been successfully demonstrated in a relevant environment.

“(b) Categorization of Technical Risk Levels.—The Secretary shall issue guidance and a framework for categorizing the degree of technical and manufacturing risk in a major defense acquisition program.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to major defense acquisition programs that reach Milestone A after Oct. 1, 2017, see [section 807(a)(2) of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s807/a/2), set out as a note under [section 4271 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4271).
