---
title: "§ 1680i. Child sexual abuse treatment programs"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1680i"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1680i"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 819](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s819), formerly title VII, § 719, as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title VII, § 715](/us/pl/100/713/tVII/s715), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4836](/us/stat/102/4836); renumbered title VIII, § 819, and amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 701(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s701/a), (b), title VIII, § 806, Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4572](/us/stat/106/4572), 4586.)"
---
# § 1680i. Child sexual abuse treatment programs

##### § 1680i. Child sexual abuse treatment programs

(a) Continuation of existing demonstration programs The Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior shall, for each fiscal year through fiscal year 1995, continue the demonstration programs involving treatment for child sexual abuse provided through the Hopi Tribe and the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes of the Fort Peck Reservation.

(b) Establishment of new demonstration programs Beginning October 1, 1995, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior may establish, in any service area, demonstration programs involving treatment for child sexual abuse, except that the Secretaries may not establish a greater number of such programs in one service area than in any other service area until there is an equal number of such programs established with respect to all service areas from which the Secretary receives qualified applications during the application period (as determined by the Secretary).

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 819](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s819), formerly title VII, § 719, as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title VII, § 715](/us/pl/100/713/tVII/s715), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4836](/us/stat/102/4836); renumbered title VIII, § 819, and amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 701(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s701/a), (b), title VIII, § 806, Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4572](/us/stat/106/4572), 4586.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–573, § 806](/us/pl/102/573/s806), amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows:

“(a) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior shall, for each of the fiscal years 1989, 1990, and 1991, continue to provide through the Hopi Tribe and the Asiniboine and Sioux Tribes of the Fort Peck Reservation the demonstration programs involving treatment for child sexual abuse that were conducted during fiscal year 1988 through such tribes.

“(b) There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years 1989, 1990, and 1991 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.”
