---
title: "§ 6453. Membership"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6453"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6453"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title C, § 10013](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tC/s10013), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3952](/us/stat/136/3952).)"
---
# § 6453. Membership

##### § 6453. Membership

(a) Voting membership The voting members of the Task Force shall be—

(1) the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and the Secretary of Interior, who shall be co-chairpersons of the Task Force;

(2) such representatives from other Federal agencies as the President, in consultation with the Under Secretary, determines appropriate; and

(3) the Governor, or a representative of the Governor, of each covered State.

(b) Nonvoting members The Task Force shall have the following nonvoting members:

(1) A member of the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council who is designated by the Governor of Florida under [section 1852(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1852/b/1).

(2) A member of the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council who is designated by the Governor of Florida under such section.

(3) A member of the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council who is designated under such section and selected as follows:

(A) For the period beginning on December 23, 2022, and ending on December 31 of the calendar year during which such date occurs, the member shall be selected jointly by the Governors of Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(B) For each calendar year thereafter, the Governors of Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall, on a rotating basis, take turns selecting the member.

(4) A member of the Caribbean Fishery Management Council who is designated under such section and selected as follows:

(A) For the period beginning on December 23, 2022, and ending on December 31 of the calendar year during which such date occurs, the member shall be selected jointly by the Governors of Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands.

(B) For each calendar year thereafter, the Governors of Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands shall, on an alternating basis, take turns selecting the member.

(5) A member appointed by the President of the Federated States of Micronesia.

(6) A member appointed by the President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

(7) A member appointed by the President of the Republic of Palau.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title C, § 10013](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tC/s10013), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3952](/us/stat/136/3952).)*
