---
title: "§ 5145. Lump-sum allowances for House Majority Floor Leader, Minority Floor Leader, Majority Whip, and Minority Whip"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5145"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5145"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I, § 104](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI/s104), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 818](/us/stat/123/818).)"
---
# § 5145. Lump-sum allowances for House Majority Floor Leader, Minority Floor Leader, Majority Whip, and Minority Whip

##### § 5145. Lump-sum allowances for House Majority Floor Leader, Minority Floor Leader, Majority Whip, and Minority Whip

(a) Effective with respect to fiscal year 2008 and each succeeding fiscal year, the aggregate amount otherwise authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year for the lump-sum allowance for each of the following offices is increased as follows:

(1) The allowance for the office of the Majority Floor Leader is increased by $200,000.

(2) The allowance for the office of the Minority Floor Leader is increased by $200,000.

(b) Effective with respect to fiscal year 2009 and each succeeding fiscal year, the aggregate amount otherwise authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year for the lump-sum allowance for each of the following offices is increased as follows:

(1) The allowance for the office of the Majority Whip is increased by $72,000.

(2) The allowance for the office of the Minority Whip is increased by $72,000.

*([Pub. L. 111–8, div. G, title I, § 104](/us/pl/111/8/dG/tI/s104), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 818](/us/stat/123/818).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 74a–10a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s74a–10a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2009, which is div. G of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009.
