---
title: "§ 10309. Post Data Pilot Program"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10309"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10309"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–60, div. E, title III, § 5301](/us/pl/119/60/dE/tIII/s5301), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1592](/us/stat/139/1592).)"
---
# § 10309. Post Data Pilot Program

##### § 10309. Post Data Pilot Program

(a) Post Data and AI Pilot Program

(1) Establishment The Secretary is authorized to establish a program, which shall be known as the “Post Data Program” (referred to in this section as the “Program”), that shall be overseen by the Department’s Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer.

(2) Goals The goals of the Program shall include the following:

(A) Cultivating a data and artificial intelligence culture at diplomatic posts globally, including data fluency and data collaboration.

(B) Promoting data integration with Department of State Headquarters.

(C) Creating operational efficiencies, supporting innovation, and enhancing mission impact.

(b) Implementation plan

(1) In general Not later than 180 days after December 18, 2025, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an implementation plan that outlines strategies for—

(A) advancing the goals described in subsection (a)(2);

(B) hiring data and artificial intelligence officers at United States diplomatic posts; and

(C) allocation of necessary resources to sustain the Program.

(2) Annual reporting requirement Not later than 180 days after December 18, 2025, and annually thereafter for the following three years, the Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees regarding the status of the implementation plan required under paragraph (1).

(c) Appropriate congressional committees defined In this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 119–60, div. E, title III, § 5301](/us/pl/119/60/dE/tIII/s5301), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1592](/us/stat/139/1592).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Department” and “Secretary” as used in this section, see section 5002 of Pub. L. 119—60, set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
