---
title: "§ 10001. Statement of findings"
identifier: "USC-T42-S10001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section10001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 976](/us/pl/97/35/tIX/s976), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 598](/us/stat/95/598).)"
---
# § 10001. Statement of findings

##### § 10001. Statement of findings

(1) it is in the interest of public health and safety to minimize unnecessary exposure to potentially hazardous radiation due to medical and dental radiologic procedures;

(2) it is in the interest of public health and safety to have a continuing supply of adequately educated persons and appropriate accreditation and certification programs administered by State governments;

(3) the protection of the public health and safety from unnecessary exposure to potentially hazardous radiation due to medical and dental radiologic procedures and the assurance of efficacious procedures are the responsibility of State and Federal governments;

(4) persons who administer radiologic procedures, including procedures at Federal facilities, should be required to demonstrate competence by reason of education, training, and experience; and

(5) the administration of radiologic procedures and the effect on individuals of such procedures have a substantial and direct effect upon United States interstate commerce.

*([Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 976](/us/pl/97/35/tIX/s976), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 598](/us/stat/95/598).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 975](/us/pl/97/35/tIX/s975), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 598](/us/stat/95/598), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle I (§§ 975–983) of title IX of [Pub. L. 97–35](/us/pl/97/35), enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Consumer-Patient Radiation Health and Safety Act of 1981’.”
