---
title: "§ 3720B. Barring delinquent Federal debtors from obtaining Federal loans or loan insurance guarantees"
identifier: "USC-T31-S3720B"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section3720B"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–134, title III, § 31001(j)(1)](/us/pl/104/134/tIII/s31001/j/1), Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321–365](/us/stat/110/1321-365); amended [Pub. L. 106–387, § 1(a) [title VIII, § 845(a)]](/us/pl/106/387/s1/a/tVIII/s845/a), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/114/1549), 1549A–65.)"
---
# § 3720B. Barring delinquent Federal debtors from obtaining Federal loans or loan insurance guarantees

##### § 3720B. Barring delinquent Federal debtors from obtaining Federal loans or loan insurance guarantees

(a) Unless this subsection is waived by the head of a Federal agency, a person may not obtain any Federal financial assistance in the form of a loan (other than a disaster loan or a marketing assistance loan or loan deficiency payment under subtitle C of the Agricultural Market Transition Act ([7 U.S.C. 7231](/us/usc/t7/s7231) et seq.)) or loan insurance or guarantee administered by the agency if the person has an outstanding debt (other than a debt under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) with any Federal agency which is in a delinquent status, as determined under standards prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. Such a person may obtain additional loans or loan guarantees only after such delinquency is resolved in accordance with those standards. The Secretary of the Treasury may exempt, at the request of an agency, any class of claims.

(b) The head of a Federal agency may delegate the waiver authority under subsection (a) to the Chief Financial Officer of the agency. The waiver authority may be redelegated only to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the agency.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–134, title III, § 31001(j)(1)](/us/pl/104/134/tIII/s31001/j/1), Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321–365](/us/stat/110/1321-365); amended [Pub. L. 106–387, § 1(a) [title VIII, § 845(a)]](/us/pl/106/387/s1/a/tVIII/s845/a), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/114/1549), 1549A–65.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Agricultural Market Transition Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is title I of [Pub. L. 104–127](/us/pl/104/127), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 896](/us/stat/110/896). Subtitle C of the Act is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 7231 et seq.) of chapter 100 of Title 7, Agriculture. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under [section 7201 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s7201) and Tables.

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (a), is classified to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

#### Amendments

2000—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–387](/us/pl/106/387) inserted “or a marketing assistance loan or loan deficiency payment under subtitle C of the Agricultural Market Transition Act ([7 U.S.C. 7231](/us/usc/t7/s7231) et seq.)” after “disaster loan”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–387, § 1(a) [title VIII, § 845(c)]](/us/pl/106/387/s1/a/tVIII/s845/c), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/114/1549), 1549A–65, provided that: “(1) In general.—The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] takes effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2000]. “(2) Transition loan deficiency payments.—If the producers on a farm lost beneficial interest in a crop during the period beginning March 21, 2000, and ending on the day before the date of enactment of this Act and were ineligible for a marketing assistance loan under subtitle C of the Agricultural Market Transition Act ([7 U.S.C. 7231](/us/usc/t7/s7231) et seq.) because of [section 3720B(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3720B/a), United States Code, as in effect before the amendment made by subsection (a), the producers shall be eligible for any loan deficiency payment under subtitle C of that Act that was available on the date on which the producers lost beneficial interest in the crop.”

#### Payments

[Pub. L. 106–387, § 1(a) [title VIII, § 845(b)]](/us/pl/106/387/s1/a/tVIII/s845/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/114/1549), 1549A–65, provided that: “Any payment made by the Commodity Credit Corporation to a producer as a result of the amendment made by section (a) [amending this section] shall be credited toward any delinquent debt owed by the producer to the Farm Service Agency.”
