---
title: "§ 5345. Contracts for education in public schools; submission of education plan by contractor as prerequisite; criteria for approval of plan by Secretary of the Interior; participation by non-Indian students"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5345"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5345"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Apr. 16, 1934, ch. 147, § 4](/us/act/1934-04-16/ch147/s4), as added [Pub. L. 93–638, title II, § 202](/us/pl/93/638/tII/s202), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2213](/us/stat/88/2213).)"
---
# § 5345. Contracts for education in public schools; submission of education plan by contractor as prerequisite; criteria for approval of plan by Secretary of the Interior; participation by non-Indian students

##### § 5345. Contracts for education in public schools; submission of education plan by contractor as prerequisite; criteria for approval of plan by Secretary of the Interior; participation by non-Indian students

The Secretary of the Interior shall not enter into any contract for the education of Indians unless the prospective contractor has submitted to, and has had approved by the Secretary of the Interior, an education plan, which plan, in the determination of the Secretary, contains educational objectives which adequately address the educational needs of the Indian students who are to be beneficiaries of the contract and assures that the contract is capable of meeting such objectives: *Provided*, That where students other than Indian students participate in such programs, money expended under such contract shall be prorated to cover the participation of only the Indian students.

*([Apr. 16, 1934, ch. 147, § 4](/us/act/1934-04-16/ch147/s4), as added [Pub. L. 93–638, title II, § 202](/us/pl/93/638/tII/s202), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2213](/us/stat/88/2213).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 455 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s455) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 4 of [act Apr. 16, 1934, ch. 147](/us/act/1934-04-16/ch147), [48 Stat. 596](/us/stat/48/596); [June 4, 1936, ch. 490](/us/act/1936-06-04/ch490), [49 Stat. 1458](/us/stat/49/1458), directed Secretary of the Interior to report to Congress any contracts made under provisions of sections 5342 to 5344 of this title, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 86–533, § 1(15)](/us/pl/86/533/s1/15), June 29, 1960, [74 Stat. 248](/us/stat/74/248).
