---
title: "§ 713a–9. Reimbursement of corporation from funds of Government agencies for services, losses, operating costs, or commodities purchased"
identifier: "USC-T15-S713a–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section713a–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([July 16, 1943, ch. 241, § 4](/us/act/1943-07-16/ch241/s4), [57 Stat. 566](/us/stat/57/566).)"
---
# § 713a–9. Reimbursement of corporation from funds of Government agencies for services, losses, operating costs, or commodities purchased

##### § 713a–9. Reimbursement of corporation from funds of Government agencies for services, losses, operating costs, or commodities purchased

Full reimbursement shall be made to the Commodity Credit Corporation for services performed, losses sustained, operating costs incurred, or commodities purchased or delivered to or on behalf of the Lend-Lease Administration, the Army or Navy, the Board of Economic Warfare, the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, or any other Government agency, from the appropriate funds of these agencies.

*([July 16, 1943, ch. 241, § 4](/us/act/1943-07-16/ch241/s4), [57 Stat. 566](/us/stat/57/566).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Lend-Lease Administration and Board of Economic Warfare, referred to in text, consolidated with Foreign Economic Administration by Ex. Ord. No. 9380, Sept. 25, 1943. Foreign Economic Administration subsequently terminated and functions of Lend-Lease Administration and Board of Economic Warfare transferred to Department of State pursuant to Ex. Ord. No. 9630, Sept. 27, 1945, 10 F.R. 12245, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 9730, May 27, 1946, 11 F.R. 5777.

#### Exceptions From Transfer of Functions

For exception of functions of corporations of Department of Agriculture from transfer of functions to Secretary of Agriculture by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1953, see Exceptions From Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 712a of this title](/us/usc/t15/s712a).

#### Abolition of Reconstruction Finance Corporation

Section 6(a) of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1957, eff. June 30, 1957, 22 F.R. 4633, [71 Stat. 647](/us/stat/71/647), set out as a note under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s601), abolished Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
