---
title: "§ 1205. Funding"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1205"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1205"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–347, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/109/347/tVI/s606), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1941](/us/stat/120/1941).)"
---
# § 1205. Funding

##### § 1205. Funding

(a) In general In addition to any amounts provided by appropriation Acts, funding for this chapter shall be provided from the Digital Transition and Public Safety Fund in accordance with section 3010 of the Digital Television Transition and Public Safety Act of 2005 ([47 U.S.C. 309](/us/usc/t47/s309) note).

(b) Compensation The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information shall compensate any such broadcast station licensee or permittee for reasonable costs incurred in complying with the requirements imposed pursuant to [section 1201(c) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1201/c) from funds made available under this section. The Assistant Secretary shall ensure that sufficient funds are made available to effectuate geographically targeted alerts.

(c) Credit The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Science and Technology and the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, may borrow from the Treasury beginning on October 1, 2006, such sums as may be necessary, but not to exceed $106,000,000, to implement this chapter. The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information shall ensure that the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Science and Technology and the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere are provided adequate funds to carry out their responsibilities under sections 1203 and 1204 of this title. The Treasury shall be reimbursed, without interest, from amounts in the Digital Television Transition and Public Safety Fund as funds are deposited into the Fund.

*([Pub. L. 109–347, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/109/347/tVI/s606), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1941](/us/stat/120/1941).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), was in the original “this title”, meaning title VI of [Pub. L. 109–347](/us/pl/109/347), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1936](/us/stat/120/1936), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title VI to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1201 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1201) and Tables.

Section 3010 of the Digital Television Transition and Public Safety Act of 2005, referred to in subsec. (a), is [section 3010 of Pub. L. 109–171](/us/pl/109/171/s3010), which is set out in a note under [section 309 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s309).
