---
title: "§ 848. Art. 48. Contempt"
identifier: "USC-T10-S848"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section848"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 53](/us/stat/70A/53); [Pub. L. 109–366, § 4(a)(2)](/us/pl/109/366/s4/a/2), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2631](/us/stat/120/2631); [Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title V, § 542(a)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tV/s542/a), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4218](/us/stat/124/4218); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LVII, § 5230](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLVII/s5230), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2913](/us/stat/130/2913); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1081(c)(1)(F)]("
---
# § 848. Art. 48. Contempt

##### § 848. Art. 48. Contempt

(a) Authority To Punish.—

(1) With respect to any proceeding under this chapter, a judicial officer specified in paragraph (2) may punish for contempt any person who—

(A) uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in the presence of the judicial officer during the proceeding;

(B) disturbs the proceeding by any riot or disorder; or

(C) willfully disobeys a lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command issued with respect to the proceeding.

(2) A judicial officer referred to in paragraph (1) is any of the following:

(A) Any judge of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces and any judge of a Court of Criminal Appeals under [section 866 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s866) (article 66).

(B) Any military judge detailed to a court-martial, a provost court, a military commission, or any other proceeding under this chapter.

(C) Any military magistrate designated to preside under [section 819 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s819) (article 19).

(D) The president of a court of inquiry.

(b) Punishment.— The punishment for contempt under subsection (a) may not exceed confinement for 30 days, a fine of $1,000, or both.

(c) Review.— A punishment under this section—

(1) if imposed by a military judge or military magistrate, may be reviewed by the Court of Criminal Appeals in accordance with the uniform rules of procedure for the Courts of Criminal Appeals under [section 866(h) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s866/h) (article 66(h));

(2) if imposed by a judge of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces or a judge of a Court of Criminal Appeals, shall constitute a judgment of the court, subject to review under the applicable provisions of section 867 or 867a of this title (article 67 or 67a); and

(3) if imposed by a court of inquiry, shall be subject to review by the convening authority in accordance with rules prescribed by the President.

(d) Inapplicability to Military Commissions Under Chapter 47A.— This section does not apply to a military commission established under chapter 47A of this title.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 53](/us/stat/70A/53); [Pub. L. 109–366, § 4(a)(2)](/us/pl/109/366/s4/a/2), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2631](/us/stat/120/2631); [Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title V, § 542(a)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tV/s542/a), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4218](/us/stat/124/4218); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LVII, § 5230](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLVII/s5230), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2913](/us/stat/130/2913); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1081(c)(1)(F)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1081/c/1/F), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1598](/us/stat/131/1598).)*

The word “may” is substituted for the word “shall”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 848 | 50:623. | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 48), 64 Stat. 123. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) substituted “[section 866(h) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s866/h) (article 66(h))” for “[section 866(g) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s866/g) (article 66(g))”.

2016—[Pub. L. 114–328, § 5230(c)](/us/pl/114/328/s5230/c), amended section catchline generally, substituting “Contempt” for “Contempts”.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 5230(a)](/us/pl/114/328/s5230/a), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “A judge detailed to a court-martial, a court of inquiry, the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, a military Court of Criminal Appeals, a provost court, or a military commission may punish for contempt any person who—

“(1) uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in the presence of the judge during the proceedings of the court-martial, court, or military commission;

“(2) disturbs the proceedings of the court-martial, court, or military commission by any riot or disorder; or

“(3) willfully disobeys the lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of the court-martial, court, or military commission.”

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 5230(b)](/us/pl/114/328/s5230/b), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

2011—[Pub. L. 111–383](/us/pl/111/383) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “A court-martial, provost court, or military commission may punish for contempt any person who uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in its presence, or who disturbs its proceedings by any riot or disorder. The punishment may not exceed confinement for 30 days or a fine of $100, or both. This section does not apply to a military commission established under chapter 47A of this title.”

2006—[Pub. L. 109–366](/us/pl/109/366) inserted last sentence.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) effective immediately after the amendments made by div. E (§§ 5001–5542) of [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) take effect as provided for in section 5542 of that Act ([10 U.S.C. 801](/us/usc/t10/s801) note), see [section 1081(c)(4) of Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91/s1081/c/4), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 2011 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title V, § 542(b)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tV/s542/b), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4218](/us/stat/124/4218), provided that: “[Section 848 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s848), United States Code (article 48 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to acts of contempt committed after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2011].”
