---
title: "§ 262r–4. Annual report and testimony on state of international financial system, IMF reform, and compliance with IMF agreements"
identifier: "USC-T22-S262r–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section262r–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–118, title XVII, § 1705](/us/pl/95/118/tXVII/s1705), as added [Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(d) [title VI, § 613]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/d/tVI/s613), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–150](/us/stat/112/2681-150), 2681–230; amended [Pub. L. 106–200, title IV, § 404(c)](/us/pl/106/200/tIV/s404/c), May 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 292](/us/stat/114/292); [Pub. L. 106–429, § 101(a) [title VIII, § 803(c)]](/us/pl/106/429/s101/a/tVIII/s803/c), Nov. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 1900](/us/stat/114/1900), 190"
---
# § 262r–4. Annual report and testimony on state of international financial system, IMF reform, and compliance with IMF agreements

##### § 262r–4. Annual report and testimony on state of international financial system, IMF reform, and compliance with IMF agreements

(a) Reports Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on Banking and Financial Services and on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Finance and on Foreign Relations of the Senate a written report on (1) the progress (if any) made by the United States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund in influencing the International Monetary Fund to adopt the policies and reform its internal procedures in the manner described in section 262*o*–2 of this title, and (2) the progress made by the International Monetary Fund in adopting and implementing the policies described in section 801(c)(1)(B) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2001.

(b) Testimony After submitting the report required by subsection (a) but not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Treasury shall appear before the Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and present testimony on—

(1) any progress made in reforming the International Monetary Fund;

(2) the status of efforts to reform the international financial system;

(3) the compliance of countries which have received assistance from the International Monetary Fund with agreements made as a condition of receiving the assistance; and

(4) the status of implementation of international anti-money laundering and counterterrorist financing standards by the International Monetary Fund, the multilateral development banks, and other multilateral financial policymaking bodies.

*([Pub. L. 95–118, title XVII, § 1705](/us/pl/95/118/tXVII/s1705), as added [Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(d) [title VI, § 613]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/d/tVI/s613), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–150](/us/stat/112/2681-150), 2681–230; amended [Pub. L. 106–200, title IV, § 404(c)](/us/pl/106/200/tIV/s404/c), May 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 292](/us/stat/114/292); [Pub. L. 106–429, § 101(a) [title VIII, § 803(c)]](/us/pl/106/429/s101/a/tVIII/s803/c), Nov. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 1900](/us/stat/114/1900), 1900A–67; [Pub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7703(b)](/us/pl/108/458/tVII/s7703/b), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3860](/us/stat/118/3860).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 801(c)(1)(B) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2001, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [section 801(c)(1)(B) of Pub. L. 106–429](/us/pl/106/429/s801/c/1/B), § 101(a) [title VIII], Nov. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 1900](/us/stat/114/1900), 1900A–65, which is not classified to the Code.

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) added par. (4).

2000—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–429](/us/pl/106/429) inserted “(1)” after “a written report on” and inserted before period at end “, and (2) the progress made by the International Monetary Fund in adopting and implementing the policies described in section 801(c)(1)(B) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2001”.

[Pub. L. 106–200](/us/pl/106/200) substituted “Committees on Banking and Financial Services and on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Finance and on Foreign Relations of the Senate” for “Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.

#### Definitions

The definitions in [section 262r of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262r) apply to this section.
