---
title: "§ 100503. Five-year strategic plans"
identifier: "USC-T54-S100503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section100503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3098](/us/stat/128/3098).)"
---
# § 100503. Five-year strategic plans

##### § 100503. Five-year strategic plans

(a) Strategic and Performance Plans.— Each System unit shall prepare and make available to the public a 5-year strategic plan and an annual performance plan. The plans shall reflect the Service policies, goals, and outcomes represented in the Service-wide strategic plan prepared pursuant to [section 306 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s306).

(b) Annual Budget.—

(1) In general.— As a part of the annual performance plan for a System unit prepared pursuant to subsection (a), following receipt of the appropriation for the unit from the Operations of the National Park System account (but not later than January 1 of each year), the superintendent of the System unit shall develop and make available to the public the budget for the current fiscal year for that System unit.

(2) Contents.— The budget shall include—

(A) funding allocations for resource preservation (including resource management), visitor services (including maintenance, interpretation, law enforcement, and search and rescue), and administration; and

(B) allocations into each of the categories in subparagraph (A) of all funds retained from fees collected for that year, including special use permits, concession franchise fees, and recreation use and entrance fees.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3098](/us/stat/128/3098).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 100503 | 16 U.S.C. 5914. | Pub. L. 105–391, title I, § 104, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3499. |
