---
title: "§ 7142c. Museum volunteers"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7142c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7142c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title IV, § 403]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/4/dB/tIV/s403), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–267.)"
---
# § 7142c. Museum volunteers

##### § 7142c. Museum volunteers

(a) Authority to use volunteers The Secretary may recruit, train, and accept the services of individuals or entities as volunteers for services or activities related to the Museum.

(b) Status of volunteers

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), service by a volunteer under subsection (a) shall not be considered Federal employment.

(2) Exceptions

(A) Federal Tort Claims Act For purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, a volunteer under subsection (a) shall be treated as an employee of the Government (as defined in section 2671 of that title).

(B) Compensation for work injuries For purposes of subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, a volunteer described in subsection (a) shall be treated as an employee (as defined in [section 8101 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8101)).

(c) Compensation A volunteer under subsection (a) shall serve without pay, but may receive nominal awards and reimbursement for incidental expenses, including expenses for a uniform or transportation in furtherance of Museum activities.

*([Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title IV, § 403]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/4/dB/tIV/s403), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–267.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2001, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
