---
title: "§ 9254. Rulemaking"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9254"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9254"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–122, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/114/122/tIV/s404), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 116](/us/stat/130/116).)"
---
# § 9254. Rulemaking

##### § 9254. Rulemaking

(a) In general The President is authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter (which may include regulatory exceptions), including under section 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1704](/us/usc/t50/s1704)).

(b) Rule of construction Nothing in this chapter, or in any amendment made by this Act, may be construed to limit the authority of the President to designate or sanction persons pursuant to an applicable Executive order or otherwise pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 114–122, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/114/122/tIV/s404), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 116](/us/stat/130/116).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–122](/us/pl/114/122), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 93](/us/stat/130/93), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9201 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9201) and Tables.

Any amendment made by this Act, referred to in subsec. (b), means the amendments made by [Pub. L. 114–122](/us/pl/114/122). See Short Title note set out under [section 9201 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9201) and Tables.

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is title II of [Pub. L. 95–223](/us/pl/95/223), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/91/1626), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s1701) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions and authorities of President under subsec. (a) of this section delegated to Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of Commerce, and Director of National Intelligence by Memorandum of President of the United States, May 18, 2016, 81 F.R. 37479, set out as a note under [section 9212 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9212).
