---
title: "§ 290k–8. Subscription of stock"
identifier: "USC-T22-S290k–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section290k–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–202, § 101(e) [title I]](/us/pl/100/202/s101/e/tI), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1329–131](/us/stat/101/1329-131), 1329–134.)"
---
# § 290k–8. Subscription of stock

##### § 290k–8. Subscription of stock

(a) Authority of Secretary of the Treasury The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to subscribe on behalf of the United States to 20,519 shares of the capital stock of the Agency, except that the subscription shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.

(b) Authorization of appropriations In order to pay for United States subscription authorized in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $222,015,580, for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(c) Dividends deposited into Treasury Any payment of dividends made to the United States by the Agency shall be deposited into the Treasury as a miscellaneous receipt.

*([Pub. L. 100–202, § 101(e) [title I]](/us/pl/100/202/s101/e/tI), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1329–131](/us/stat/101/1329-131), 1329–134.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is based on section 411 of title IV of H.R. 3750, One Hundredth Congress, as introduced Dec. 11, 1987, and enacted into law by [Pub. L. 100–202](/us/pl/100/202).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### First General Capital Increase

[Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(2) [title V, § 594]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/2/tV/s594), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–122, provided in part that the Secretary of the Treasury may effect the United States participation in the first general capital increase of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and authorized $29,870,087 to be appropriated without fiscal year limitation for payment by the Secretary for paid-in capital of the Agency and $139,365,533 to be appropriated without fiscal year limitation for payment by the Secretary for callable capital of the Agency.
