---
title: "§ 12561a. Campuses of Service"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12561a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12561a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 118A](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s118A), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1203](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1203), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1477](/us/stat/123/1477).)"
---
# § 12561a. Campuses of Service

##### § 12561a. Campuses of Service

(a) In general The Corporation, after consultation with the Secretary of Education, may annually designate not more than 25 institutions of higher education as Campuses of Service, from among institutions nominated by State Commissions.

(b) Applications for nomination

(1) In general To be eligible for a nomination to receive designation under subsection (a), and have an opportunity to apply for funds under subsection (d) for a fiscal year, an institution of higher education in a State shall submit an application to the State Commission at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the State Commission may require.

(2) Contents At a minimum, the application shall include information specifying—

(A)

(i) the number of undergraduate and, if applicable, graduate service-learning courses offered at such institution for the most recent full academic year preceding the fiscal year for which designation is sought; and

(ii) the number and percentage of undergraduate students and, if applicable, the number and percentage of graduate students at such institution who were enrolled in the corresponding courses described in clause (i), for such preceding academic year;

(B) the percentage of undergraduate students engaging in and, if applicable, the percentage of graduate students engaging in activities providing community services, as defined in section 441(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([42 U.S.C. 2751(c)](/us/usc/t42/s2751/c)),11 See References in Text note below. during such preceding academic year, the quality of such activities, and the average amount of time spent, per student, engaged in such activities;

(C) for such preceding academic year, the percentage of Federal work-study funds made available to the institution under part C of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([42 U.S.C. 2751](/us/usc/t42/s2751) et seq.) ^1 that is used to compensate students employed in providing community services, as so defined, and a description of the efforts the institution undertakes to make available to students opportunities to provide such community services and be compensated through such work-study funds;

(D) at the discretion of the institution, information demonstrating the degree to which recent graduates of the institution, and all graduates of the institution, have obtained full-time public service employment in the nonprofit sector or government, with a private nonprofit organization or a Federal, State, or local public agency; and

(E) any programs the institution has in place to encourage or assist graduates of the institution to pursue careers in public service in the nonprofit sector or government.

(c) Nominations and designation

(1) Nomination

(A) In general A State Commission that receives applications from institutions of higher education under subsection (b) may nominate, for designation under subsection (a), not more than 3 such institutions of higher education, consisting of—

(i) not more than one 4-year public institution of higher education;

(ii) not more than one 4-year private institution of higher education; and

(iii) not more than one 2-year institution of higher education.

(B) Submission The State Commission shall submit to the Corporation the name and application of each institution nominated by the State Commission under subparagraph (A).

(2) Designation The Corporation shall designate, under subsection (a), not more than 25 institutions of higher education from among the institutions nominated under paragraph (1). In making the designations, the Corporation shall, if feasible, designate various types of institutions, including institutions from each of the categories of institutions described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of paragraph (1)(A).

(d) Awards

(1) In general Using sums reserved under [section 12681(a)(1)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12681/a/1/C) for Campuses of Service, the Corporation shall provide an award of funds to institutions designated under subsection (c), to be used by the institutions to develop or disseminate service-learning models and information on best practices regarding service-learning to other institutions of higher education.

(2) Plan To be eligible to receive funds under this subsection, an institution designated under subsection (c) shall submit a plan to the Corporation describing how the institution intends to use the funds to develop or disseminate service-learning models and information on best practices regarding service-learning to other institutions of higher education.

(3) Allocation The Corporation shall determine how the funds reserved under [section 12681(a)(1)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12681/a/1/C) for Campuses of Service for a fiscal year will be allocated among the institutions submitting acceptable plans under paragraph (2). In determining the amount of funds to be allocated to such an institution, the Corporation shall consider the number of students at the institution, the quality and scope of the plan submitted by the institution under paragraph (2), and the institution’s current (as of the date of submission of the plan) strategies to encourage or assist students to pursue public service careers in the nonprofit sector or government.

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 118A](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s118A), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1203](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1203), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1477](/us/stat/123/1477).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(B), (C), is [Pub. L. 89–329](/us/pl/89/329), Nov. 8, 1965, [79 Stat. 1219](/us/stat/79/1219). Part C of title IV of the Act was formerly classified generally to part C (§ 2751 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 34 of this title prior to transfer to part C (§ 1087–51 et seq.) of subchapter IV of chapter 28 of Title 20, Education. Section 441 of the Act was transferred from [section 2751 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2751) to [section 1087–51 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1087–51). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1001 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).
