---
title: "§ 701b–12. Floodplain management requirements"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701b–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701b–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–662, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/99/662/tIV/s402), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4133](/us/stat/100/4133); [Pub. L. 100–676, § 14](/us/pl/100/676/s14), Nov. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 4026](/us/stat/102/4026); [Pub. L. 104–303, title II, § 202(c)(1)](/us/pl/104/303/tII/s202/c/1), Oct. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 3674](/us/stat/110/3674); [Pub. L. 106–541, title II, § 209(a)](/us/pl/106/541/tII/s209/a), (c), Dec. 11, 2000, [114 Stat. 2591](/us/stat/114/2591); [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 612(c)](/us/pl/"
---
# § 701b–12. Floodplain management requirements

##### § 701b–12. Floodplain management requirements

(a) Compliance with floodplain management and insurance programs Before construction of any project for local flood protection, or any project for hurricane or storm damage reduction, that involves Federal assistance from the Secretary, the non-Federal interest shall agree to participate in and comply with applicable Federal floodplain management and flood insurance programs.

(b) Floodplain management plans Within 1 year after the date of signing a project cooperation agreement for construction of a project to which subsection (a) applies, the non-Federal interest shall prepare a floodplain management plan designed to reduce the impacts of future flood events in the project area. Such plan shall be implemented by the non-Federal interest not later than 1 year after completion of construction of the project.

(c) Guidelines

(1) In general The Secretary shall develop guidelines for preparation of floodplain management plans by non-Federal interests under subsection (b).

(2) Required elements The guidelines developed under paragraph (1) shall—

(A) address potential measures, practices, and policies to be undertaken by non-Federal interests to to 11 So in original. reduce loss of life, injuries, damages to property and facilities, public expenditures, and other adverse impacts associated with flooding and to preserve and enhance natural floodplain values; and

(B) address those measures to be undertaken by non-Federal interests to preserve the level of flood protection provided by a project to which subsection (a) applies.

(3) Limitation on statutory construction Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to confer any regulatory authority upon the Secretary or the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

(d) Technical support The Secretary may provide technical support to a non-Federal interest for a project to which subsection (a) applies for the development and implementation of plans prepared under subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 99–662, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/99/662/tIV/s402), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4133](/us/stat/100/4133); [Pub. L. 100–676, § 14](/us/pl/100/676/s14), Nov. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 4026](/us/stat/102/4026); [Pub. L. 104–303, title II, § 202(c)(1)](/us/pl/104/303/tII/s202/c/1), Oct. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 3674](/us/stat/110/3674); [Pub. L. 106–541, title II, § 209(a)](/us/pl/106/541/tII/s209/a), (c), Dec. 11, 2000, [114 Stat. 2591](/us/stat/114/2591); [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 612(c)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s612/c), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1410](/us/stat/120/1410).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2000—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 106–541, § 209(c)](/us/pl/106/541/s209/c), substituted “Floodplain” for “Flood plain” in heading and “floodplain” for “flood plain” in first sentence.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 106–541, § 209(a)](/us/pl/106/541/s209/a), in first sentence substituted “The” for “Within 6 months after October 12, 1996, the”, designated second sentence as par. (2), inserted heading, substituted “The guidelines developed under paragraph (1) shall—” for “Such guidelines shall”, designated remainder of sentence as subpar. (A), inserted “to be undertaken by non-Federal interests to” after “policies”, added subpar. (B), and redesignated former par. (2) as (3).

1996—[Pub. L. 104–303](/us/pl/104/303) substituted “Floodplain management requirements” for “Compliance with flood plain management and insurance programs” in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Before construction of any project for local flood protection or any project for hurricane or storm damage reduction, the non-Federal interests shall agree to participate in and comply with applicable Federal flood plain management and flood insurance programs.”

1988—[Pub. L. 100–676](/us/pl/100/676) inserted “or any project for hurricane or storm damage reduction” after “local flood protection”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency” substituted for “Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency” in subsec. (c)(3) on authority of [section 612(c) of Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295/s612/c), set out as a note under [section 313 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s313), Domestic Security. Any reference to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in title VI of [Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295) or an amendment by title VI to be considered to refer and apply to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency until Mar. 31, 2007, see [section 612(f)(2) of Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295/s612/f/2), set out as a note under [section 313 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s313).

#### Effective Date of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–541, title II, § 209(b)](/us/pl/106/541/tII/s209/b), Dec. 11, 2000, [114 Stat. 2591](/us/stat/114/2591), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to any project or separable element of a project with respect to which the Secretary [of the Army] and the non-Federal interest have not entered a project cooperation agreement on or before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 11, 2000].”

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

[Pub. L. 104–303, title II, § 202(c)(2)](/us/pl/104/303/tII/s202/c/2), Oct. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 3675](/us/stat/110/3675), provided that: “The amendment made by paragraph (1) [amending this section] shall apply to any project or separable element thereof with respect to which the Secretary and the non-Federal interest have not entered into a project cooperation agreement on or before the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 12, 1996].”

#### Reference to Project Cooperation Agreement Deemed Reference to Project Partnership Agreement

Reference to “project cooperation agreement” deemed to be reference to “project partnership agreement”, see [section 2003(f)(2) of Pub. L. 110–114](/us/pl/110/114/s2003/f/2), set out as a note under [section 1962d–5b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1962d–5b), The Public Health and Welfare.
