---
title: "§ 1621q. Prevention, control, and elimination of communicable and infectious diseases"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1621q"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1621q"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title II, § 218](/us/pl/94/437/tII/s218), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title II, § 214](/us/pl/102/573/tII/s214), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4556](/us/stat/106/4556); amended [Pub. L. 103–437, § 10(e)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s10/e/1), (2)(B), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4589](/us/stat/108/4589); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1621q. Prevention, control, and elimination of communicable and infectious diseases

##### § 1621q. Prevention, control, and elimination of communicable and infectious diseases

(a) Grants authorized The Secretary, acting through the Service, and after consultation with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may make grants available to Indian tribes and tribal organizations for the following:

(1) Projects for the prevention, control, and elimination of communicable and infectious diseases, including tuberculosis, hepatitis, HIV, respiratory syncytial virus, hanta virus, sexually transmitted diseases, and H. pylori.

(2) Public information and education programs for the prevention, control, and elimination of communicable and infectious diseases.

(3) Education, training, and clinical skills improvement activities in the prevention, control, and elimination of communicable and infectious diseases for health professionals, including allied health professionals.

(4) Demonstration projects for the screening, treatment, and prevention of hepatitis C virus (HCV).

(b) Application required The Secretary may provide funding under subsection (a) only if an application or proposal for funding is submitted to the Secretary.

(c) Coordination with health agencies Indian tribes and tribal organizations receiving funding under this section are encouraged to coordinate their activities with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and State and local health agencies.

(d) Technical assistance; report In carrying out this section, the Secretary—

(1) may, at the request of an Indian tribe or tribal organization, provide technical assistance; and

(2) shall prepare and submit a report to Congress biennially on the use of funds under this section and on the progress made toward the prevention, control, and elimination of communicable and infectious diseases among Indians and urban Indians.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title II, § 218](/us/pl/94/437/tII/s218), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title II, § 214](/us/pl/102/573/tII/s214), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4556](/us/stat/106/4556); amended [Pub. L. 103–437, § 10(e)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s10/e/1), (2)(B), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4589](/us/stat/108/4589); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on section 133 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to grants to Indian tribes and tribal organizations for prevention, control, and elimination of tuberculosis.

1994—Subsec. (d)(4). [Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Committee on Indian” for “Select Committee on Indian” and “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Coverage of Testing for COVID–19 at No Cost Sharing for Indians Receiving Purchased/Referred Care

[Pub. L. 116–127, div. F, § 6007](/us/pl/116/127/dF/s6007), Mar. 18, 2020, [134 Stat. 208](/us/stat/134/208), provided that: “The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall cover, without the imposition of any cost sharing requirements, the cost of providing any COVID–19 related items and services as described in paragraph (1) of section 6001(a) [of [Pub. L. 116–127](/us/pl/116/127), [42 U.S.C. 1320b–5](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–5) note] (or the administration of such products) or visits described in paragraph (2) of such section furnished during any portion of the emergency period defined in paragraph (1)(B) of section 1135(g) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 320b–5(g)](/us/usc/t42/s320b–5/g) [1320b–5(g)]) beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 18, 2020] to Indians (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act ([25 U.S.C. 1603](/us/usc/t25/s1603))) receiving health services through the Indian Health Service, including through an Urban Indian Organization, regardless of whether such items or services have been authorized under the purchased/referred care system funded by the Indian Health Service or is covered as a health service of the Indian Health Service.”
