---
title: "§ 478. Advisory groups"
identifier: "USC-T28-S478"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section478"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–650, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/101/650/tI/s103/a), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5094](/us/stat/104/5094).)"
---
# § 478. Advisory groups

##### § 478. Advisory groups

(a) Within ninety days after the date of the enactment of this chapter, the advisory group required in each United States district court in accordance with [section 472 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s472) shall be appointed by the chief judge of each district court, after consultation with the other judges of such court.

(b) The advisory group of a district court shall be balanced and include attorneys and other persons who are representative of major categories of litigants in such court, as determined by the chief judge of such court.

(c) Subject to subsection (d), in no event shall any member of the advisory group serve longer than four years.

(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c), the United States Attorney for a judicial district, or his or her designee, shall be a permanent member of the advisory group for that district court.

(e) The chief judge of a United States district court may designate a reporter for each advisory group, who may be compensated in accordance with guidelines established by the Judicial Conference of the United States.

(f) The members of an advisory group of a United States district court and any person designated as a reporter for such group shall be considered as independent contractors of such court when in the performance of official duties of the advisory group and may not, solely by reason of service on or for the advisory group, be prohibited from practicing law before such court.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–650, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/101/650/tI/s103/a), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5094](/us/stat/104/5094).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 101–650](/us/pl/101/650), which was approved Dec. 1, 1990.
