---
title: "§ 4351. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4351"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4351"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–221, § 2](/us/pl/114/221/s2), Sept. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 847](/us/stat/130/847).)"
---
# § 4351. Purposes

##### § 4351. Purposes

(1) to enhance and integrate Native American tourism—

(A) to empower Native American communities; and

(B) to advance the National Travel and Tourism Strategy;

(2) to increase coordination and collaboration between Federal tourism assets to support Native American tourism and bolster recreational travel and tourism;

(3) to expand heritage and cultural tourism opportunities in the United States to spur economic development, create jobs, and increase tourism revenues;

(4) to enhance and improve self-determination and self-governance capabilities in the Native American community and to promote greater self-sufficiency;

(5) to encourage Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and Native Hawaiian organizations to engage more fully in Native American tourism activities to increase visitation to rural and remote areas in the United States that are too difficult to access or are unknown to domestic travelers and international tourists;

(6) to provide grants, loans, and technical assistance to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and Native Hawaiian organizations that will—

(A) spur important infrastructure development;

(B) increase tourism capacity; and

(C) elevate living standards in Native American communities; and

(7) to support the development of technologically innovative projects that will incorporate recreational travel and tourism information and data from Federal assets to improve the visitor experience.

*([Pub. L. 114–221, § 2](/us/pl/114/221/s2), Sept. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 847](/us/stat/130/847).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 114–221, § 1](/us/pl/114/221/s1), Sept. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 847](/us/stat/130/847), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Native American Tourism and Improving Visitor Experience Act’ or the ‘NATIVE Act’.”
