---
title: "§ 100902. Rights of way for public utilities and power and communication facilities"
identifier: "USC-T54-S100902"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section100902"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3113](/us/stat/128/3113).)"
---
# § 100902. Rights of way for public utilities and power and communication facilities

##### § 100902. Rights of way for public utilities and power and communication facilities

(a) Public Utilities.—

(1) In general.— Under regulations the Secretary prescribes, the Secretary may grant a right of way through a System unit to a citizen, association, or corporation of the United States that intends to use the right of way for—

(A) electrical plants, poles, and lines for the generation and distribution of electrical power;

(B) telephone and telegraph purposes; and

(C) canals, ditches, pipes and pipe lines, flumes, tunnels, or other water conduits and water plants, dams, and reservoirs used to promote irrigation or mining or quarrying, or the manufacturing or cutting of timber or lumber, or the supplying of water for domestic, public, or any other beneficial uses.

(2) Extent of right of way.— A right of way under this subsection shall be for—

(A) the ground occupied by the canals, ditches, flumes, tunnels, reservoirs, or other water conduits or water plants, or electrical or other works permitted under paragraph (1); and

(B) not more than 50 feet—

(i) on each side of the marginal limits of the ground; or

(ii) on each side of the center line of the pipes and pipe lines, electrical, telegraph, and telephone lines and poles.

(3) Approval.— A right of way under this subsection shall be allowed within or through a System unit only on the approval of the Secretary and on a finding that the right of way is not incompatible with the public interest.

(4) Revocation.— The Secretary may revoke a right of way under this subsection.

(5) Right, easement, or interest not conferred.— A right of way under this subsection does not confer any right, easement, or interest in, to, or over a System unit.

(b) Power and Communication Facilities.—

(1) In general.— Under regulations the Secretary prescribes, the Secretary may grant a right of way over, across, and on through a System unit to a citizen, association, or corporation of the United States that intends to use the right of way for—

(A) electrical poles and lines for the transmission and distribution of electrical power;

(B) poles and lines for communication purposes; and

(C) radio, television, and other forms of communication transmitting, relay, and receiving structures and facilities.

(2) Extent of right of way.— A right of way under this subsection—

(A) shall be for not more than 50 years from the date the right of way is granted; and

(B) for—

(i) lines and poles shall be for 200 feet on each side of the center line of the lines and poles; and

(ii) radio, television, and other forms of communication transmitting, relay, and receiving structures and facilities shall be for not more than 400 feet by 400 feet.

(3) Approval.— A right of way under this subsection shall be allowed within or through a System unit only on the approval of the Secretary and on a finding that the right of way is not incompatible with the public interest.

(4) Forfeiture and annulment.— The Secretary may forfeit and annul any part of a right of way under this subsection for—

(A) nonuse for a period of 2 years; or

(B) abandonment.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3113](/us/stat/128/3113).)*

In subsection (a), the text of [16 U.S.C. 79](/us/usc/t16/s79) (2d proviso) is omitted as obsolete because title 65 of the Revised States of the United States was repealed by [section 1 of the Act of July 16, 1947](/us/act/1947-07-16/s1) (ch. 256, [61 Stat. 327](/us/stat/61/327)).

In subsection (a)(1), the words “and the Yosemite, Sequoia, and General Grant national parks, California” are omitted as unnecessary because “other reservations” encompasses all System units.

The inclusion of paragraphs (4) and (5) of subsection (a) do not have any effect on rights of way under subsection (b).

In subsection (a)(4), the words “or his successor in his discretion” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), the text of [16 U.S.C. 5](/us/usc/t16/s5) (last paragraph) is omitted as obsolete. The word “Secretary” is substituted for “the head of the department having jurisdiction over the lands” and “chief officer of the department under whose supervision or control such reservation falls” because the portion of the Act of March 4, 1911 (ch. 238, [36 Stat. 1253](/us/stat/36/1253)) classified to [16 U.S.C. 5](/us/usc/t16/s5) relates only to System units.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 100902(a) | 16 U.S.C. 79. | Feb. 15, 1901, ch.372 (relating to System units), 31 Stat. 790. |
| 100902(b) | 16 U.S.C. 5. | Mar. 4, 1911, ch. 238 (4th and last paragraphs (relating to System units) under heading “Improvement of the National Forest” under heading “Forest Service”), 36 Stat. 1253; May 27, 1952, ch. 338, 66 Stat. 95. |
