---
title: "§ 10196. Federal agency actions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S10196"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section10196"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–425, title II, § 216](/us/pl/97/425/tII/s216), Jan. 7, 1983, [96 Stat. 2248](/us/stat/96/2248).)"
---
# § 10196. Federal agency actions

##### § 10196. Federal agency actions

(a) Cooperation and coordination Federal agencies shall assist the Secretary by cooperating and coordinating with the Secretary in the preparation of any necessary reports under this subchapter and the mission plan under [section 10221 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10221).

(b) Environmental review

(1) No action of the Secretary or any other Federal agency required by this subchapter or [section 10221 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10221) with respect to a test and evaluation facility to be taken prior to the initiation of onsite construction of a test and evaluation facility shall require the preparation of an environmental impact statement under section 102(2)(C) of the Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ([42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)](/us/usc/t42/s4332/2/C)), or to require the preparation of environmental reports, except as otherwise specifically provided for in this subchapter.

(2) The Secretary and the heads of all other Federal agencies shall, to the maximum extent possible, avoid duplication of efforts in the preparation of reports under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ([42 U.S.C. 4321](/us/usc/t42/s4321) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 97–425, title II, § 216](/us/pl/97/425/tII/s216), Jan. 7, 1983, [96 Stat. 2248](/us/stat/96/2248).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 91–190](/us/pl/91/190), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 852](/us/stat/83/852), which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4321 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4321) and Tables.
