---
title: "§ 16296. Low-volume oil and gas reservoir research program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16296"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16296"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 966](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s966), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 893](/us/stat/119/893).)"
---
# § 16296. Low-volume oil and gas reservoir research program

##### § 16296. Low-volume oil and gas reservoir research program

(a) Definition of GIS In this section, the term “GIS” means geographic information systems technology that facilitates the organization and management of data with a geographic component.

(b) Program The Secretary shall establish a program of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application to maximize the productive capacity of marginal wells and reservoirs.

(c) Data collection Under the program, the Secretary shall collect data on—

(1) the status and location of marginal wells and oil and gas reservoirs;

(2) the production capacity of marginal wells and oil and gas reservoirs;

(3) the location of low-pressure gathering facilities and pipelines; and

(4) the quantity of natural gas vented or flared in association with crude oil production.

(d) Analysis Under the program, the Secretary shall—

(1) estimate the remaining producible reserves based on variable pipeline pressures; and

(2) recommend measures that will enable the continued production of those resources.

(e) Study

(1) In general The Secretary may award a grant to an organization of States that contain significant numbers of marginal oil and natural gas wells to conduct an annual study of low-volume natural gas reservoirs.

(2) Organization with no GIS capabilities If an organization receiving a grant under paragraph (1) does not have GIS capabilities, the organization shall contract with an institution of higher education with GIS capabilities.

(3) State geologists The organization receiving a grant under paragraph (1) shall collaborate with the State geologist of each State being studied.

(f) Public information The Secretary may use the data collected and analyzed under this section to produce maps and literature to disseminate to States to promote conservation of natural gas reserves.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 966](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s966), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 893](/us/stat/119/893).)*
