---
title: "§ 4514. Consultation and layover provisions for, and effective date of, proclaimed actions"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4514"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4514"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title I, § 104](/us/pl/116/113/tI/s104), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 17](/us/stat/134/17).)"
---
# § 4514. Consultation and layover provisions for, and effective date of, proclaimed actions

##### § 4514. Consultation and layover provisions for, and effective date of, proclaimed actions

(1) the President has obtained advice regarding the proposed action from—

(A) the appropriate advisory committees established under [section 2155 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2155); and

(B) the International Trade Commission, which shall hold a public hearing on the proposed action before providing advice regarding the proposed action;

(2) the President has submitted to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives a report that sets forth—

(A) the proposed action and the reasons therefor; and

(B) the advice obtained under paragraph (1);

(3) a period of 60 calendar days, beginning on the first day on which the requirements set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) have been met, has expired; and

(4) the President has consulted with the committees referred to in paragraph (2) regarding the proposed action during the period referred to in paragraph (3).

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title I, § 104](/us/pl/116/113/tI/s104), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 17](/us/stat/134/17).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 11](/us/stat/134/11), known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4501 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4501) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Proc. No. 10053, par. (7), June 29, 2020, 85 F.R. 39826, authorized the United States Trade Representative to fulfill the obligations of the President to obtain advice from the appropriate advisory committees and the International Trade Commission on the proposed implementation of an action by Presidential proclamation; to submit a report on such proposed action to the appropriate congressional committees; and to consult with those congressional committees regarding the proposed action.
