---
title: "§ 3393. Establishment and implementation of priorities"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3393"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3393"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–621, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/95/621/tIV/s403), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3396](/us/stat/92/3396).)"
---
# § 3393. Establishment and implementation of priorities

##### § 3393. Establishment and implementation of priorities

(a) Establishment of priorities The Secretary of Energy shall prescribe the rules under sections 3391 and 3392 of this title pursuant to his authority under the Department of Energy Organization Act [42 U.S.C 7101 et seq.] to establish and review priorities for curtailments under the Natural Gas Act [[15 U.S.C. 717](/us/usc/t15/s717) et seq.].

(b) Implementation of priorities The Commission shall implement the rules prescribed under sections 3391 and 3392 of this title pursuant to its authority under the Department of Energy Organization Act [[42 U.S.C. 7101](/us/usc/t42/s7101) et seq.] to establish, review, and enforce curtailments under the Natural Gas Act [[15 U.S.C. 717](/us/usc/t15/s717) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 95–621, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/95/621/tIV/s403), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3396](/us/stat/92/3396).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Department of Energy Organization Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is [Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 565](/us/stat/91/565), which is classified principally to chapter 84 (§ 7101 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7101 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7101) and Tables.

The Natural Gas Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is [act June 21, 1938, ch. 556](/us/act/1938-06-21/ch556), [52 Stat. 821](/us/stat/52/821), which is classified generally to chapter 15B (§ 717 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this act to the Code, see [section 717w of this title](/us/usc/t15/s717w) and Tables.
