---
title: "§ 3554. Order of criminal forfeiture"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3554"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3554"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 1990](/us/stat/98/1990).)"
---
# § 3554. Order of criminal forfeiture

##### § 3554. Order of criminal forfeiture

The court, in imposing a sentence on a defendant who has been found guilty of an offense described in [section 1962 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1962) or in title II or III of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 shall order, in addition to the sentence that is imposed pursuant to the provisions of section 3551, that the defendant forfeit property to the United States in accordance with the provisions of [section 1963 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1963) or section 413 of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse and Control Act of 1970.

*(Added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 1990](/us/stat/98/1990).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 91–513](/us/pl/91/513), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1236](/us/stat/84/1236). Title II of this Act, known as the Controlled Substances Act, is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 801 et seq.) of chapter 13 of Title 21, Food and Drugs. Title III of this Act, known as the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act, is classified principally to subchapter II (§ 951 et seq.) of chapter 13 of Title 21. Section 413 of this Act is classified to [section 853 of Title 21](/us/usc/t21/s853). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under sections 801 and 951 of Title 21 and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Nov. 1, 1987, and applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of this section, see [section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s235/a/1), set out as a note under [section 3551 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3551).
