---
title: "§ 620c–1. Laws governing priority of appropriation"
identifier: "USC-T43-S620c–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section620c–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–537, title V, § 501(e)](/us/pl/90/537/tV/s501/e), Sept. 30, 1968, [82 Stat. 898](/us/stat/82/898).)"
---
# § 620c–1. Laws governing priority of appropriation

##### § 620c–1. Laws governing priority of appropriation

In the diversion and storage of water for any project or any parts thereof constructed under the authority of the Colorado River Basin Project Act [[43 U.S.C. 1501](/us/usc/t43/s1501) et seq.] or the Colorado River Storage Project Act [[43 U.S.C. 620](/us/usc/t43/s620) et seq.] within and for the benefit of the State of Colorado only, the Secretary is directed to comply with the constitution and statutes of the State of Colorado relating to priority of appropriation; with State and Federal court decrees entered pursuant thereto; and with operating principles, if any, adopted by the Secretary and approved by the State of Colorado.

*([Pub. L. 90–537, title V, § 501(e)](/us/pl/90/537/tV/s501/e), Sept. 30, 1968, [82 Stat. 898](/us/stat/82/898).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Colorado River Basin Project Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 90–537](/us/pl/90/537), Sept. 30, 1968, [82 Stat. 885](/us/stat/82/885), which is classified principally to chapter 32 (§ 1501 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1501 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1501) and Tables.

The Colorado River Storage Project Act, referred to in text, is [act Apr. 11, 1956, ch. 203](/us/act/1956-04-11/ch203), [70 Stat. 105](/us/stat/70/105), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 620 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s620) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section consists of subsec. (e) of [section 501 of Pub. L. 90–537](/us/pl/90/537/s501). Subsecs. (a), (b), and (d) of section 501 are classified to sections 620, 620 note, 620a, 620a–1, 620a–2, and 620k note of this title. Subsecs. (c) and (f) of section 501 are not classified to the Code.

Section was enacted as part of the Colorado River Basin Project Act, and not as part of act Apr. 11, 1956, popularly known as the Colorado River Storage Project Act, which comprises this chapter.
