---
title: "§ 2109. Report on employment and international competitiveness"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2109"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2109"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–379, § 10](/us/pl/100/379/s10), Aug. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 894](/us/stat/102/894).)"
---
# § 2109. Report on employment and international competitiveness

##### § 2109. Report on employment and international competitiveness

Two years after August 4, 1988, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Small Business of both the House and Senate, the Committee on Labor and Human Resources, and the Committee on Education and Labor a report containing a detailed and objective analysis of the effect of this chapter on employers (especially small- and medium-sized businesses), the economy (international competitiveness), and employees (in terms of levels and conditions of employment). The Comptroller General shall assess both costs and benefits, including the effect on productivity, competitiveness, unemployment rates and compensation, and worker retraining and readjustment.

*([Pub. L. 100–379, § 10](/us/pl/100/379/s10), Aug. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 894](/us/stat/102/894).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.

Committee on Small Business of Senate changed to Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of Senate. See Senate Resolution No. 123, One Hundred Seventh Congress, June 29, 2001.

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.

#### Effective Date

Section effective 6 months after Aug. 4, 1988, see [section 11 of Pub. L. 100–379](/us/pl/100/379/s11), set out as a note under [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2101).
