---
title: "§ 3502. Purposes and establishment; policy guidelines and objectives"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–53, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/96/53/tIV/s402), Aug. 14, 1979, [93 Stat. 372](/us/stat/93/372).)"
---
# § 3502. Purposes and establishment; policy guidelines and objectives

##### § 3502. Purposes and establishment; policy guidelines and objectives

(a) To strengthen the capacity of the people of developing countries to solve their development problems through scientific and technological innovation, to foster research on problems of development, and to facilitate scientific and technological cooperation with developing countries, the President is authorized to establish an Institute for Scientific and Technological Cooperation (hereafter in this chapter referred to as the “Institute”), which shall be subject to the foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of State.

(b) The Institute shall be guided by the policies set forth in sections 2151 and 2151–1 of this title and shall direct a substantial share of its resources to those objectives.

*([Pub. L. 96–53, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/96/53/tIV/s402), Aug. 14, 1979, [93 Stat. 372](/us/stat/93/372).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this title”, meaning title IV of [Pub. L. 96–53](/us/pl/96/53), Aug. 14, 1979, [93 Stat. 371](/us/stat/93/371), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 512(a) of Pub. L. 96–53](/us/pl/96/53/s512/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1979 Amendment note under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151).
