---
title: "§ 14952. Special rules for certain cases"
identifier: "USC-T42-S14952"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section14952"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–279, title V, § 502](/us/pl/106/279/tV/s502), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 843](/us/stat/114/843).)"
---
# § 14952. Special rules for certain cases

##### § 14952. Special rules for certain cases

(a) Authority to establish alternative procedures for adoption of children by relatives To the extent consistent with the Convention, the Secretary may establish by regulation alternative procedures for the adoption of children by individuals related to them by blood, marriage, or adoption, in cases subject to the Convention.

(b) Waiver authority

(1) In general Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, to the extent consistent with the Convention, the Secretary may, on a case-by-case basis, waive applicable requirements of this chapter or regulations issued under this chapter, in the interests of justice or to prevent grave physical harm to the child.

(2) Nondelegation The authority provided by paragraph (1) may not be delegated.

*([Pub. L. 106–279, title V, § 502](/us/pl/106/279/tV/s502), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 843](/us/stat/114/843).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 106–279](/us/pl/106/279), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 825](/us/stat/114/825), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 14901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s14901) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon entry into force for the United States of the Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption, pursuant to Article 46(2)(a) of the Convention, with transition rule, see section 505(a)(2), (b) of [Pub. L. 106–279](/us/pl/106/279), set out as an Effective Dates; Transition Rule note under [section 14901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s14901).
