---
title: "§ 1861b. Fisheries enforcement plans and reporting"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1861b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1861b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–293, title II, § 224](/us/pl/108/293/tII/s224), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/118/1040).)"
---
# § 1861b. Fisheries enforcement plans and reporting

##### § 1861b. Fisheries enforcement plans and reporting

(a) Fisheries enforcement plans In preparing the Coast Guard’s annual fisheries enforcement plan, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall consult with the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and with State and local enforcement authorities.

(b) Fishery patrols Prior to undertaking fisheries patrols, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall notify the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and appropriate State and local enforcement authorities of the projected dates for such patrols.

(c) Annual summary The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall prepare and make available to the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, State and local enforcement entities, and other relevant stakeholders, an annual summary report of fisheries enforcement activities for the preceding year, including a summary of the number of patrols, law enforcement actions taken, and resource hours expended.

*([Pub. L. 108–293, title II, § 224](/us/pl/108/293/tII/s224), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/118/1040).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2004, and not as part of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirement

For provision terminating reporting requirement under this section, see [section 4(b) of Pub. L. 111–207](/us/pl/111/207/s4/b), set out as a Combination of Fisheries Enforcement Plans and Foreign Fishing Incursion Reports note under [section 1828 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1828).
