---
title: "§ 874. Advisory committees"
identifier: "USC-T21-S874"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section874"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–513, title II, § 504](/us/pl/91/513/tII/s504), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/84/1272).)"
---
# § 874. Advisory committees

##### § 874. Advisory committees

The Attorney General may from time to time appoint committees to advise him with respect to preventing and controlling the abuse of controlled substances. Members of the committees may be entitled to receive compensation at the rate of $100 for each day (including traveltime) during which they are engaged in the actual performance of duties. While traveling on official business in the performance of duties for the committees, members of the committees shall be allowed expenses of travel, including per diem instead of subsistence, in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.

*([Pub. L. 91–513, title II, § 504](/us/pl/91/513/tII/s504), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/84/1272).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, and advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
