---
title: "§ 3332. Guidance and reporting requirement regarding the interactions between the intelligence community and entertainment industry"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3332"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3332"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title III, § 308](/us/pl/115/31/dN/tIII/s308), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 813](/us/stat/131/813); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LVII, § 5701(d)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLVII/s5701/d), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2160](/us/stat/133/2160).)"
---
# § 3332. Guidance and reporting requirement regarding the interactions between the intelligence community and entertainment industry

##### § 3332. Guidance and reporting requirement regarding the interactions between the intelligence community and entertainment industry

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Engagement The term “engagement”—

(A) means any significant interaction between an element of the intelligence community and an entertainment industry entity for the purposes of contributing to an entertainment product intended to be heard, read, viewed, or otherwise experienced by the public; and

(B) does not include routine inquiries made by the press or news media to the public affairs office of an intelligence community.

(2) Entertainment industry entity The term “entertainment industry entity” means an entity that creates, produces, promotes, or distributes a work of entertainment intended to be heard, read, viewed, or otherwise experienced by an audience, including—

(A) theater productions, motion pictures, radio broadcasts, television broadcasts, podcasts, webcasts, other sound or visual recording, music, or dance;

(B) books and other published material; and

(C) such other entertainment activity, as determined by the Director of National Intelligence.

(b) Director of National Intelligence guidance

(1) In general Not later than 180 days after May 5, 2017, the Director of National Intelligence shall issue, and release to the public, guidance regarding engagements by elements of the intelligence community with entertainment industry entities.

(2) Criteria The guidance required by paragraph (1) shall permit an element of the intelligence community to conduct engagements, if the head of the element, or a designee of such head, provides prior approval.

(c) Information on prior year engagements At the written request of either of the congressional intelligence committees, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to such committees information with respect to engagements occurring during the calendar year prior to the year during which such request is made. Such information may include—

(1) a description of the nature and duration of each such engagement;

(2) the cost incurred by the United States Government for each such engagement;

(3) a description of the benefits to the United States Government for each such engagement;

(4) a determination of whether any information was declassified, and whether any classified information was improperly disclosed, for each such engagement; and

(5) a description of the work produced through each such engagement.

*([Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title III, § 308](/us/pl/115/31/dN/tIII/s308), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 813](/us/stat/131/813); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LVII, § 5701(d)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLVII/s5701/d), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2160](/us/stat/133/2160).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 116–92, § 5701(d)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/s5701/d/1), struck out subpar. (A) designation before “permit an element”, substituted “shall” for “shall—” and “approval.” for “approval; and”, and struck out subpar. (B) which read as follows: “require an unclassified annual report to the congressional intelligence committees regarding engagements.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–92, § 5701(d)(2)](/us/pl/116/92/s5701/d/2), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c) which related to the annual report to the congressional intelligence committees regarding engagements.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “intelligence community” and “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in text, see [section 2 of div. N of Pub. L. 115–31](/us/pl/115/31/dN/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
