---
title: "§ 1428. Permanent self-funding; duty to assess and collect fees for network use"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1428"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1428"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6208](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6208), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 215](/us/stat/126/215).)"
---
# § 1428. Permanent self-funding; duty to assess and collect fees for network use

##### § 1428. Permanent self-funding; duty to assess and collect fees for network use

(a) In general Notwithstanding [section 337 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s337), the First Responder Network Authority is authorized to assess and collect the following fees:

(1) Network user fee A user or subscription fee from each entity, including any public safety entity or secondary user, that seeks access to or use of the nationwide public safety broadband network.

(2) Lease fees related to network capacity

(A) In general A fee from any entity that seeks to enter into a covered leasing agreement.

(B) Covered leasing agreement For purposes of subparagraph (A), a “covered leasing agreement” means a written agreement resulting from a public-private arrangement to construct, manage, and operate the nationwide public safety broadband network between the First Responder Network Authority and secondary user to permit—

(i) access to network capacity on a secondary basis for non-public safety services; and

(ii) the spectrum allocated to such entity to be used for commercial transmissions along the dark fiber of the long-haul network of such entity.

(3) Lease fees related to network equipment and infrastructure A fee from any entity that seeks access to or use of any equipment or infrastructure, including antennas or towers, constructed or otherwise owned by the First Responder Network Authority resulting from a public-private arrangement to construct, manage, and operate the nationwide public safety broadband network.

(b) Establishment of fee amounts; permanent self-funding The total amount of the fees assessed for each fiscal year pursuant to this section shall be sufficient, and shall not exceed the amount necessary, to recoup the total expenses of the First Responder Network Authority in carrying out its duties and responsibilities described under this subchapter for the fiscal year involved.

(c) Annual approval The NTIA shall review the fees assessed under this section on an annual basis, and such fees may only be assessed if approved by the NTIA.

(d) Required reinvestment of funds The First Responder Network Authority shall reinvest amounts received from the assessment of fees under this section in the nationwide public safety interoperable broadband network by using such funds only for constructing, maintaining, operating, or improving the network.

*([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6208](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6208), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 215](/us/stat/126/215).)*
