---
title: "§ 2057b. Banning of isopropal nitrite and other nitrites"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2057b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2057b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXII, § 3202](/us/pl/101/647/tXXXII/s3202), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4917](/us/stat/104/4917).)"
---
# § 2057b. Banning of isopropal nitrite and other nitrites

##### § 2057b. Banning of isopropal nitrite and other nitrites

(a) In general Except as provided in subsection (b), volatile alkyl nitrite shall be considered a banned hazardous product under [section 2057 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2057).

(b) Lawful purposes For the purposes of [section 2057 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2057), it shall not be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, offer for sale, distribute in commerce, or import into the United States volatile alkyl nitrites for any commercial purpose or any other purpose approved under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 301](/us/usc/t21/s301) et seq.].

(c) “Commercial purpose” defined For purposes of this section, the term “commercial purpose” means any commercial purpose other than for the production of consumer products containing volatile alkyl nitrites that may be used for inhaling or otherwise introducing volatile alkyl nitrites into the human body for euphoric or physical effects.

(d) Effective date This section shall take effect 90 days after November 29, 1990.

*([Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXII, § 3202](/us/pl/101/647/tXXXII/s3202), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4917](/us/stat/104/4917).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act June 25, 1938, ch. 675](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675), [52 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/52/1040), which is classified generally to chapter 9 (§ 301 et seq.) of Title 21, Food and Drugs. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 301 of Title 21](/us/usc/t21/s301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Crime Control Act of 1990, and not as part of the Consumer Product Safety Act which comprises this chapter.
