---
title: "§ 1447f. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1447f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1447f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–532, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/92/532/tIV/s407), as added [Pub. L. 101–593, title III, § 301](/us/pl/101/593/tIII/s301), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2969](/us/stat/104/2969).)"
---
# § 1447f. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 1447f. Authorization of appropriations

(a) In general For purposes of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, there are authorized to be appropriated $18,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 through 1996.

(b) Allocation

(1) Of funds appropriated in any fiscal year, not more than $500,000 shall be reserved for administration of this chapter by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency.

(2) Funds appropriated in a fiscal year which are available after allocation pursuant to paragraph (1), shall be used to support the administrative costs of Boards established pursuant to [section 1447b(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1447b/a), provided that such funding does not exceed $300,000 for each research Board in each fiscal year.

(3) Seventy-five percent of funds appropriated in a fiscal year available after allocation pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), shall be allocated equally among Boards located in regions submitting research project grant applications pursuant to [section 1447d(b) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1447d/b).

(4) Twenty-five percent of funds appropriated in a fiscal year available after allocation pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), shall be allocated among Boards located in regions submitting research project grant applications pursuant to [section 1447d(b) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1447d/b) which, in the judgment of the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, propose the most needed and highest quality research.

*([Pub. L. 92–532, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/92/532/tIV/s407), as added [Pub. L. 101–593, title III, § 301](/us/pl/101/593/tIII/s301), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2969](/us/stat/104/2969).)*
