---
title: "§ 2419. Administration"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2419"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2419"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–618, title III, § 309](/us/pl/93/618/tIII/s309), as added [Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1301(a)](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1301/a), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1175](/us/stat/102/1175).)"
---
# § 2419. Administration

##### § 2419. Administration

(1) issue regulations concerning the filing of petitions and the conduct of investigations and hearings under this subchapter,

(2) keep the petitioner regularly informed of all determinations and developments regarding the investigation conducted with respect to the petition under this subchapter, including the reasons for any undue delays, and

(3) submit a report to the House of Representatives and the Senate semiannually describing—

(A) the petitions filed and the determinations made (and reasons therefor) under [section 2412 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2412),

(B) developments in, and the current status of, each investigation or proceeding under this subchapter,

(C) the actions taken, or the reasons for no action, by the Trade Representative under [section 2411 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2411) with respect to investigations conducted under this subchapter, and

(D) the commercial effects of actions taken under [section 2411 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2411).

*([Pub. L. 93–618, title III, § 309](/us/pl/93/618/tIII/s309), as added [Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1301(a)](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1301/a), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1175](/us/stat/102/1175).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to petitions filed, and investigations initiated, under [section 2412 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2412) on or after Aug. 23, 1988, and petitions filed, and investigations initiated, before Aug. 23, 1988, if by such date no decision had been made under [section 2414 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2414) regarding the petition or investigation, see [section 1301(c) of Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418/s1301/c), set out as an Effective Date of 1988 Amendment note under [section 2411 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2411).
