---
title: "§ 7278. Availability of appropriations for Department of Energy for transportation, uniforms, security, and price support and loan guarantee programs; transfer of funds; acceptance of contributions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7278"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7278"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–377, title III, § 301](/us/pl/102/377/tIII/s301), Oct. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 1338](/us/stat/106/1338).)"
---
# § 7278. Availability of appropriations for Department of Energy for transportation, uniforms, security, and price support and loan guarantee programs; transfer of funds; acceptance of contributions

##### § 7278. Availability of appropriations for Department of Energy for transportation, uniforms, security, and price support and loan guarantee programs; transfer of funds; acceptance of contributions

Appropriations for the Department of Energy under this title 11 See References in Text note below. in this and subsequent Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts, on and after October 2, 1992, shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance and operation of aircraft; purchase, repair and cleaning of uniforms; and reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard services. From these appropriations, transfers of sums may on and after October 2, 1992, be made to other agencies of the United States Government for the performance of work for which this appropriation is made. None of the funds made available to the Department of Energy under this Act or subsequent Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts shall be used to implement or finance authorized price support or loan guarantee programs unless specific provision is made for such programs in an appropriation Act. The Secretary is authorized on and after October 2, 1992, to accept lands, buildings, equipment, and other contributions from public and private sources and to prosecute projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, private, or foreign.

*([Pub. L. 102–377, title III, § 301](/us/pl/102/377/tIII/s301), Oct. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 1338](/us/stat/106/1338).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in text, is title III of [Pub. L. 102–377](/us/pl/102/377), Oct. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 1332](/us/stat/106/1332). For complete classification of title III to Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1993, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
