---
title: "§ 293. Nonresident patentee; service and notice"
identifier: "USC-T35-S293"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-12"
last_updated: "2025-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title35-section293"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "35"
source_credit: "([July 19, 1952, ch. 950](/us/act/1952-07-19/ch950), [66 Stat. 814](/us/stat/66/814); [Pub. L. 93–596, § 1](/us/pl/93/596/s1), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1949](/us/stat/88/1949); [Pub. L. 112–29, § 9(a)](/us/pl/112/29/s9/a), Sept. 16, 2011, [125 Stat. 316](/us/stat/125/316).)"
---
# § 293. Nonresident patentee; service and notice

##### § 293. Nonresident patentee; service and notice

Every patentee not residing in the United States may file in the Patent and Trademark Office a written designation stating the name and address of a person residing within the United States on whom may be served process or notice of proceedings affecting the patent or rights thereunder. If the person designated cannot be found at the address given in the last designation, or if no person has been designated, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia shall have jurisdiction and summons shall be served by publication or otherwise as the court directs. The court shall have the same jurisdiction to take any action respecting the patent or rights thereunder that it would have if the patentee were personally within the jurisdiction of the court.

*([July 19, 1952, ch. 950](/us/act/1952-07-19/ch950), [66 Stat. 814](/us/stat/66/814); [Pub. L. 93–596, § 1](/us/pl/93/596/s1), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1949](/us/stat/88/1949); [Pub. L. 112–29, § 9(a)](/us/pl/112/29/s9/a), Sept. 16, 2011, [125 Stat. 316](/us/stat/125/316).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section provides for service on non-resident patentees.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2011—[Pub. L. 112–29](/us/pl/112/29) substituted “United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia” for “United States District Court for the District of Columbia”.

1975—[Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596) substituted “Patent and Trademark Office” for “Patent Office”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2011 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–29](/us/pl/112/29) effective Sept. 16, 2011, and applicable to any civil action commenced on or after that date, see [section 9(b) of Pub. L. 112–29](/us/pl/112/29/s9/b), set out as a note under [section 1071 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1071), Commerce and Trade.

#### Effective Date of 1975 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596) effective Jan. 2, 1975, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596/s4), set out as a note under [section 1111 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1111), Commerce and Trade.
