---
title: "§ 300j–19h. Advanced drinking water technologies"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300j–19h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300j–19h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIV, § 1459G, as added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. E, title I, § 50112](/us/pl/117/58/dE/tI/s50112), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1154](/us/stat/135/1154).)"
---
# § 300j–19h. Advanced drinking water technologies

##### § 300j–19h. Advanced drinking water technologies

(a) Study

(1) In general Subject to the availability of appropriations, not later than 1 year after November 15, 2021, the Administrator shall carry out a study that examines the state of existing and potential future technology, including technology that could address cybersecurity vulnerabilities, that enhances or could enhance the treatment, monitoring, affordability, efficiency, and safety of drinking water provided by a public water system.

(2) Report The Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that describes the results of the study under paragraph (1).

(b) Advanced drinking water technology grant program

(1) Definitions In this subsection:

(A) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means the owner or operator of a public water system that—

(i) serves—

(I) a population of not more than 100,000 people; or

(II) a community described in [section 300j–19a(c)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300j–19a/c/2);

(ii) has plans to identify or has identified opportunities in the operations of the public water system to employ new, existing, or emerging, yet proven, technologies, including technology that could address cybersecurity vulnerabilities, as determined by the Administrator, that enhance treatment, monitoring, affordability, efficiency, or safety of the drinking water provided by the public water system, including technologies not identified in the study conducted under subsection (a)(1); and

(iii) has expressed an interest in the opportunities in the operation of the public water system to employ new, existing, or emerging, yet proven, technologies, including technology that could address cybersecurity vulnerabilities, as determined by the Administrator, that enhance treatment, monitoring, affordability, efficiency, or safety of the drinking water provided by the public water system, including technologies not identified in the study conducted under subsection (a)(1).

(B) Program The term “program” means the competitive grant program established under paragraph (2).

(2) Establishment The Administrator shall establish a competitive grant program under which the Administrator shall award grants to eligible entities for the purpose of identifying, deploying, or identifying and deploying technologies described in paragraph (1)(A)(ii).

(3) Requirements

(A) Applications To be eligible to receive a grant under the program, an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Administrator may require.

(B) Federal share

(i) In general Subject to clause (ii), the Federal share of the cost of a project carried out using a grant under the program shall not exceed 90 percent of the total cost of the project.

(ii) Waiver The Administrator may increase the Federal share under clause (i) to 100 percent if the Administrator determines that an eligible entity is unable to pay, or would experience significant financial hardship if required to pay, the non-Federal share.

(4) Report Not later than 2 years after the date on which the Administrator first awards a grant under the program, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report describing—

(A) each recipient of a grant under the program during the previous 1-year period; and

(B) a summary of the activities carried out using grants awarded under the program.

(5) Funding

(A) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the program $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, to remain available until expended.

(B) Administrative costs Not more than 2 percent of the amount made available for a fiscal year under subparagraph (A) to carry out the program may be used by the Administrator for the administrative costs of carrying out the program.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIV, § 1459G, as added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. E, title I, § 50112](/us/pl/117/58/dE/tI/s50112), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1154](/us/stat/135/1154).)*
