---
title: "§ 8901. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–95, § 2](/us/pl/113/95/s2), Apr. 3, 2014, [128 Stat. 1088](/us/stat/128/1088); [Pub. L. 115–44, title II, § 228(b)](/us/pl/115/44/tII/s228/b), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 914](/us/stat/131/914).)"
---
# § 8901. Definitions

##### § 8901. Definitions

(1) Alien The term “alien” has the meaning given that term in [section 1101(a) of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1101/a).

(2) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Appropriations, and the majority leader and minority leader of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Financial Services 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Speaker and minority leader of the House of Representatives.

(3) Materially assisted The term “materially assisted” means the provision of assistance that is significant and of a kind directly relevant to acts described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of [section 8907(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8907/a) or acts described in [section 8908(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8908/a/1).

(4) United States person The term “United States person” means—

(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States; or

(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.

*([Pub. L. 113–95, § 2](/us/pl/113/95/s2), Apr. 3, 2014, [128 Stat. 1088](/us/stat/128/1088); [Pub. L. 115–44, title II, § 228(b)](/us/pl/115/44/tII/s228/b), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 914](/us/stat/131/914).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Par. (2)(A). [Pub. L. 115–44, § 228(b)(1)](/us/pl/115/44/s228/b/1), inserted “the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs,” before “the Committee on Foreign Relations”.

Par. (2)(B). [Pub. L. 115–44, § 228(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/44/s228/b/2), inserted “the Committee on Financial Services” before “the Committee on Foreign Affairs”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 113–95, § 1](/us/pl/113/95/s1), Apr. 3, 2014, [128 Stat. 1088](/us/stat/128/1088), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014’.”
