---
title: "§ 2104. State and Federal cooperation"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–85, title X, § 1004](/us/pl/110/85/tX/s1004), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 964](/us/stat/121/964).)"
---
# § 2104. State and Federal cooperation

##### § 2104. State and Federal cooperation

(a) In general The Secretary shall work with the States in undertaking activities and programs that assist in improving the safety of food, including fresh and processed produce, so that State food safety programs and activities conducted by the Secretary function in a coordinated and cost-effective manner. With the assistance provided under subsection (b), the Secretary shall encourage States to—

(1) establish, continue, or strengthen State food safety programs, especially with respect to the regulation of retail commercial food establishments; and

(2) establish procedures and requirements for ensuring that processed produce under the jurisdiction of State food safety programs is not unsafe for human consumption.

(b) Assistance The Secretary may provide to a State, for planning, developing, and implementing such a food safety program—

(1) advisory assistance;

(2) technical assistance, training, and laboratory assistance (including necessary materials and equipment); and

(3) financial and other assistance.

(c) Service agreements The Secretary may, under an agreement entered into with a Federal, State, or local agency, use, on a reimbursable basis or otherwise, the personnel, services, and facilities of the agency to carry out the responsibilities of the agency under this section. An agreement entered into with a State agency under this subsection may provide for training of State employees.

*([Pub. L. 110–85, title X, § 1004](/us/pl/110/85/tX/s1004), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 964](/us/stat/121/964).)*
