---
title: "§ 6318. Additional home State office space for Senators; declaration of disaster or emergency"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6318"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6318"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–18, title II, § 7002](/us/pl/105/18/tII/s7002), June 12, 1997, [111 Stat. 192](/us/stat/111/192).)"
---
# § 6318. Additional home State office space for Senators; declaration of disaster or emergency

##### § 6318. Additional home State office space for Senators; declaration of disaster or emergency

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, with the approval of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate is authorized to provide additional facilities, services, equipment, and office space for use by a Senator in that Senator’s State in connection with a disaster or emergency declared by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act [[42 U.S.C. 5121](/us/usc/t42/s5121) et seq.]. Expenses incurred by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under this section shall be paid from the appropriation account, within the contingent fund of the Senate, for expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon vouchers signed by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate with the approval of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

(b) This section is effective on and after June 12, 1997.

*([Pub. L. 105–18, title II, § 7002](/us/pl/105/18/tII/s7002), June 12, 1997, [111 Stat. 192](/us/stat/111/192).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143), which is classified principally to chapter 68 (§ 5121 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 59–1 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s59–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
