---
title: "§ 2345. Export control programs"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2345"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2345"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. C, title XXXI, § 3159](/us/pl/107/314/dC/tXXXI/s3159), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2741](/us/stat/116/2741).)"
---
# § 2345. Export control programs

##### § 2345. Export control programs

(a) Authority to pursue options for strengthening export control programs The Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary of State, may pursue in the region of the former Soviet Union and other regions of concern options for accelerating programs that assist the countries in such regions in improving their domestic export control programs for materials, technologies, and expertise relevant to the construction or use of a nuclear or radiological dispersal device.

(b) Amount for activities Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by section 3101(a)(2) 11 See References in Text note below. for the Department of Energy for the National Nuclear Security Administration for defense nuclear nonproliferation, up to $5,000,000 may be available for carrying out this section.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. C, title XXXI, § 3159](/us/pl/107/314/dC/tXXXI/s3159), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2741](/us/stat/116/2741).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 3101(a)(2), referred to in subsec. (b), is [section 3101(a)(2) of Pub. L. 107–314](/us/pl/107/314/s3101/a/2), div. C, title XXXI, Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2729](/us/stat/116/2729), which is not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003, and not as part of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 which comprises this chapter.
