---
title: "§ 2408. Security not required of United States"
identifier: "USC-T28-S2408"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section2408"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 972](/us/stat/62/972).)"
---
# § 2408. Security not required of United States

##### § 2408. Security not required of United States

Security for damages or costs shall not be required of the United States, any department or agency thereof or any party acting under the direction of any such department or agency on the issuance of process or the institution or prosecution of any proceeding.

Costs taxable, under other Acts of Congress, against the United States or any such department, agency or party shall be paid out of the contingent fund of the department or agency which directed the proceedings to be instituted.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 972](/us/stat/62/972).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 870 (R.S. § 1001; [Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231), §§ 117, 289, [36 Stat. 1131](/us/stat/36/1131), 1167; [Jan. 31, 1928, ch. 14, § 1](/us/act/1928-01-31/ch14/s1), [45 Stat. 54](/us/stat/45/54); [June 19, 1934, ch. 653, § 7](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch653/s7), [48 Stat. 1109](/us/stat/48/1109)).

[Section 870 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s870), U.S.C., 1940 ed., applied only to the Supreme Court and district courts. The revised section applies to all courts.

Words “process or the institution or prosecution of any proceeding” were substituted for “appeal, or other process in law, admiralty, or equity.”

Word “agency” was substituted for “any corporation all the stock of which is beneficially owned by the United States, either directly or indirectly”, in view of the creation of many independent governmental agencies since the enactment of the original law on which this section is based.

Changes were made in phraseology.
