---
title: "§ 1651. Compensation authorized"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1651"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1651"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1941, ch. 357, § 1](/us/act/1941-08-16/ch357/s1), [55 Stat. 622](/us/stat/55/622); [Dec. 2, 1942, ch. 668](/us/act/1942-12-02/ch668), title III, § 301, [56 Stat. 1035](/us/stat/56/1035); 1946 Proc. No. 2695, eff. July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7871, [60 Stat. 1352](/us/stat/60/1352); [June 30, 1953, ch. 176, § 4](/us/act/1953-06-30/ch176/s4), [67 Stat. 135](/us/stat/67/135); [Pub. L. 85–477](/us/pl/85/477), ch. V, § 502(a), June 30, 1958, [72 Stat. 272](/us/stat/72/272); [Pub. L. 85–608, title"
---
# § 1651. Compensation authorized

##### § 1651. Compensation authorized

(a) Places of employment Except as herein modified, the provisions of the Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act, approved March 4, 1927 ([44 Stat. 1424](/us/stat/44/1424)), as amended [[33 U.S.C. 901](/us/usc/t33/s901) et seq.], shall apply in respect to the injury or death of any employee engaged in any employment—

irrespective of the place where the injury or death occurs, and shall include any injury or death occurring to any such employee during transportation to or from his place of employment, where the employer or the United States provides the transportation or the cost thereof.

(1) at any military, air, or naval base acquired after January 1, 1940, by the United States from any foreign government; or

(2) upon any lands occupied or used by the United States for military or naval purposes in any Territory or possession outside the continental United States (including the United States Naval Operating Base, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; and the Canal Zone); or

(3) upon any public work in any Territory or possession outside the continental United States (including the United States Naval Operating Base, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; and the Canal Zone), if such employee is engaged in employment at such place under the contract of a contractor (or any subcontractor or subordinate subcontractor with respect to the contract of such contractor) with the United States; but nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to apply to any employee of such a contractor or subcontractor who is engaged exclusively in furnishing materials or supplies under his contract;

(4) under a contract entered into with the United States or any executive department, independent establishment, or agency thereof (including any corporate instrumentality of the United States), or any subcontract, or subordinate contract with respect to such contract, where such contract is to be performed outside the continental United States and at places not within the areas described in subparagraphs (1)–(3) of this subdivision, for the purpose of engaging in public work, and every such contract shall contain provisions requiring that the contractor (and subcontractor or subordinate contractor with respect to such contract) (1) shall, before commencing performance of such contract, provide for securing to or on behalf of employees engaged in such public work under such contract the payment of compensation and other benefits under the provisions of this chapter, and (2) shall maintain in full force and effect during the term of such contract, subcontract, or subordinate contract, or while employees are engaged in work performed thereunder, the said security for the payment of such compensation and benefits, but nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to apply to any employee of such contractor or subcontractor who is engaged exclusively in furnishing materials or supplies under his contract;

(5) under a contract approved and financed by the United States or any executive department, independent establishment, or agency thereof (including any corporate instrumentality of the United States), or any subcontract or subordinate contract with respect to such contract, where such contract is to be performed outside the continental United States, under the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended (other than title II of chapter II thereof unless the Secretary of Labor, upon the recommendation of the head of any department or other agency of the United States, determines a contract financed under a successor provision of any successor Act should be covered by this section), and not otherwise within the coverage of this section, and every such contract shall contain provisions requiring that the contractor (and subcontractor or subordinate contractor with respect to such contract) (A) shall, before commencing performance of such contract, provide for securing to or on behalf of employees engaged in work under such contract the payment of compensation and other benefits under the provisions of this chapter, and (B) shall maintain in full force and effect during the term of such contract, subcontract, or subordinate contract, or while employees are engaged in work performed thereunder, the said security for the payment of such compensation and benefits, but nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to apply to any employee of such contractor or subcontractor who is engaged exclusively in furnishing materials or supplies under his contract;

(6) outside the continental United States by an American employer providing welfare or similar services for the benefit of the Armed Forces pursuant to appropriate authorization by the Secretary of Defense,

(b) Definitions As used in this section—

(1) the term “public work” means any fixed improvement or any project, whether or not fixed, involving construction, alteration, removal or repair for the public use of the United States or its allies, including but not limited to projects or operations under service contracts and projects in connection with the national defense or with war activities, dredging, harbor improvements, dams, roadways, and housing, as well as preparatory and ancillary work in connection therewith at the site or on the project;

(2) the term “allies” means any nation with which the United States is engaged in a common military effort or with which the United States has entered into a common defensive military alliance;

(3) the term “war activities” includes activities directly relating to military operations;

(4) the term “continental United States” means the States and the District of Columbia.

(c) Liability as exclusive The liability of an employer, contractor (or any subcontractor or subordinate subcontractor with respect to the contract of such contractor) under this chapter shall be exclusive and in place of all other liability of such employer, contractor, subcontractor, or subordinate contractor to his employees (and their dependents) coming within the purview of this chapter, under the workmen’s compensation law of any State, Territory, or other jurisdiction, irrespective of the place where the contract of hire of any such employee may have been made or entered into.

(d) “Contractor” defined As used in this section, the term “contractor” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, successor, or personal representative thereof, and the rights, obligations, liability, and duties of the employer under such Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act [[33 U.S.C. 901](/us/usc/t33/s901) et seq.] shall be applicable to such contractor.

(e) Contracts within section; waiver of application of section The liability under this chapter of a contractor, subcontractor, or subordinate contractor engaged in public work under subparagraphs (3) and (4), subdivision (a) of this section, and the conditions set forth therein, shall become applicable to contracts and subcontracts heretofore entered into but not completed at August 16, 1941, and the liability under this chapter of a contractor, subcontractor, or subordinate contractor engaged in performance of contracts, subcontracts, or subordinate contracts specified in subparagraph (5), subdivision (a) of this section, and the conditions set forth therein, shall hereafter be applicable to the remaining terms of such contracts, subcontracts, and subordinate contracts entered into prior to but not completed on the date of enactment of any successor Act to the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended, and contracting officers of the United States are authorized to make such modifications and amendments of existing contracts as may be necessary to bring such contracts into conformity with the provisions of this chapter. No right shall arise in any employee or his dependent under subparagraphs (3) and (4) of subdivision (a) of this section, prior to two months after the approval of this chapter. Upon the recommendation of the head of any department or other agency of the United States, the Secretary of Labor, in the exercise of his discretion, may waive the application of this section with respect to any contract, subcontract, contract, or subordinate contract, work location under such contracts, or classification of employees. Upon recommendation of any employer referred to in paragraph (6) of subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of Labor may waive the application of this section to any employee or class of employees of such employer, or to any place of employment of such an employee or class of employees.

(f) Liability to prisoners of war and protected persons The liability under this chapter of a contractor, subcontractor, or subordinate contractor engaged in public work under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (a) of this section or in any work under paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of this section does not apply with respect to any person who is a prisoner of war or a protected person under the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and who is detained or utilized by the United States.

*([Aug. 16, 1941, ch. 357, § 1](/us/act/1941-08-16/ch357/s1), [55 Stat. 622](/us/stat/55/622); [Dec. 2, 1942, ch. 668](/us/act/1942-12-02/ch668), title III, § 301, [56 Stat. 1035](/us/stat/56/1035); 1946 Proc. No. 2695, eff. July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7871, [60 Stat. 1352](/us/stat/60/1352); [June 30, 1953, ch. 176, § 4](/us/act/1953-06-30/ch176/s4), [67 Stat. 135](/us/stat/67/135); [Pub. L. 85–477](/us/pl/85/477), ch. V, § 502(a), June 30, 1958, [72 Stat. 272](/us/stat/72/272); [Pub. L. 85–608, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/608/tII/s201), Aug. 8, 1958, [72 Stat. 537](/us/stat/72/537); [Pub. L. 86–70, § 40](/us/pl/86/70/s40), June 25, 1959, [73 Stat. 150](/us/stat/73/150); [Pub. L. 86–108](/us/pl/86/108), ch. VII, § 701(a), July 24, 1959, [73 Stat. 257](/us/stat/73/257); [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. IV, § 701, Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 463](/us/stat/75/463); [Pub. L. 98–426, § 27(d)(2)](/us/pl/98/426/s27/d/2), Sept. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/98/1654).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), is [act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 509](/us/act/1927-03-04/ch509), [44 Stat. 1424](/us/stat/44/1424), which is classified generally to chapter 18 (§ 901 et seq.) of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 901 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s901) and Tables.

For definition of Canal Zone, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), (3), see [section 3602(b) of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3602/b), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

The Mutual Security Act of 1954, referred to in subsecs. (a)(5) and (e), is [act Aug. 26, 1954, ch. 937](/us/act/1954-08-26/ch937), [68 Stat. 832](/us/stat/68/832), as amended by acts [July 8, 1955, ch. 301](/us/act/1955-07-08/ch301), [69 Stat. 283](/us/stat/69/283); [July 18, 1956, ch. 627](/us/act/1956-07-18/ch627), §§ 2–11, [70 Stat. 555](/us/stat/70/555); Aug. 14, 1957, [Pub. L. 85–141](/us/pl/85/141), [71 Stat. 355](/us/stat/71/355); June 30, 1958, [Pub. L. 85–477](/us/pl/85/477), ch. 1, §§ 101–103, ch. II, §§ 201–205, ch. III, § 301, ch. IV, § 401, ch. V, § 501, [72 Stat. 261](/us/stat/72/261); July 24, 1959, [Pub. L. 86–108, § 2](/us/pl/86/108/s2), ch. 1, § 101, ch. II, §§ 201 to 205(a)–(i), (k)–(n), ch. III, § 301, ch. IV, § 401(a)–(k), (m), [73 Stat. 246](/us/stat/73/246); May 14, 1960, [Pub. L. 86–472](/us/pl/86/472), chs. I to V, [74 Stat. 134](/us/stat/74/134), which was principally classified to chapter 24 (§ 1750 et seq.) of Title 22, and which was repealed by acts [July 18, 1956, ch. 627, § 8(m)](/us/act/1956-07-18/ch627/s8/m), [70 Stat. 559](/us/stat/70/559); Aug. 14, 1957, [Pub. L. 85–141](/us/pl/85/141), §§ 2(e), 3, 4(b), 11(d), [71 Stat. 356](/us/stat/71/356); July 24, 1959, [Pub. L. 86–108](/us/pl/86/108), ch. II, § 205(j), ch. IV, § 401(1), [73 Stat. 250](/us/stat/73/250); May 14, 1960, [Pub. L. 86–472](/us/pl/86/472), ch. II, §§ 203(d), 204(k), [74 Stat. 138](/us/stat/74/138); Sept. 4, 1961, [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 642(a)(2), [75 Stat. 460](/us/stat/75/460); June 30, 1976, [Pub. L. 94–329, title II, § 212(b)(1)](/us/pl/94/329/tII/s212/b/1), [90 Stat. 745](/us/stat/90/745); Apr. 4, 1996, [Pub. L. 104–127, title II, § 228](/us/pl/104/127/tII/s228), [110 Stat. 963](/us/stat/110/963), except for sections 1754, 1783, 1796, 1853, 1928, and 1937 of Title 22. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1754 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s1754) and Tables.

Title II of Chapter II of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, referred to in subsec. (a)(5), which was classified generally to sections 1870 to 1876 of Title 22, was repealed by [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Pt. III, § 642(a)(2), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 460](/us/stat/75/460).

#### Codification

Reference to Philippine Islands in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsec. (a) of this section was omitted as obsolete in view of Proc. No. 2695, eff. July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7871, [60 Stat. 1352](/us/stat/60/1352), recognizing the independence of the Philippines and withdrawing and surrendering all rights of possession, supervision, jurisdiction, control, or sovereignty now existing and exercised by the United States in and over the territory and people of the Philippines. See note set out under [section 1394 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s1394), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Amendments

1984—Subsecs. (a), (d). [Pub. L. 98–426](/us/pl/98/426) substituted “Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act” for “Longshoremen’s and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act”.

1961—Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 87–195, § 701(1)](/us/pl/87/195/s701/1), extended coverage in those cases where the Secretary of Labor, upon the recommendation of the head of any department or other agency of the United States, determines a contract financed under a successor provision of any successor act to the Mutual Security Act of 1954 should be covered by this section.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 87–195, § 701(2)](/us/pl/87/195/s701/2), substituted “but not completed on the date of enactment of any successor act to the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended” for “June 30, 1958, but not completed on July 24, 1959”.

1959—Subsec. (a)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 86–70, § 40(a)](/us/pl/86/70/s40/a), struck out “Alaska;” before “the United States Naval Operating Base”.

Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 86–70, § 40(b)](/us/pl/86/70/s40/b), struck out “or in Alaska or the Canal Zone” after “continental United States”.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 86–70, § 40(c)](/us/pl/86/70/s40/c), added par. (4).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 86–108](/us/pl/86/108) provided that the liability under this chapter of a contractor, subcontractor, or subordinate contractor engaged in performance of contracts, subcontracts, or subordinate contracts specified in subsec. (a)(5) of this section, and the conditions set forth therein, shall be applicable to the remaining terms of such contracts, subcontracts, and subordinate contracts entered into prior to June 30, 1958, but not completed on July 24, 1959.

1958—Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 85–477, § 502(a)(1)](/us/pl/85/477/s502/a/1), added par. (5).

Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 85–608, § 201(a)](/us/pl/85/608/s201/a), added par. (6).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 85–608, § 201(b)](/us/pl/85/608/s201/b), inserted “whether or not fixed,” after “any project” and substituted “projects or operations under service contracts and projects in connection with the national defense or with war activities” for “projects in connection with the war effort” in definition of “public work”, and inserted definitions of “allies” and “war activities”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 85–608, § 201(c)](/us/pl/85/608/s201/c), substituted “may waive the application of this section with respect to any contract” for “may waive the application of the provisions of subparagraphs (3), (4), or (5) of subdivision (a) of this section, with respect to any contract”, and inserted provisions authorizing the Secretary to waive the application of this section to any employee or class of employees of an employer referred to in paragraph (6) of subsection (a) of this section upon recommendation of the employer.

[Pub. L. 85–477, § 502(a)(2)](/us/pl/85/477/s502/a/2), substituted “provisions of subparagraphs (3), (4), or (5)” for “provisions of subparagraphs (3) or (4)”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 85–608, § 201(d)](/us/pl/85/608/s201/d), substituted provisions making liability of a contractor, subcontractor, or subordinate contractor inapplicable with respect to persons who are prisoners of war or protected persons and who are detained or utilized by the United States for provisions which made liability inapplicable with respect to employees not citizens of the United States who incurred an injury or death resulting in death subsequent to June 30, 1953.

[Pub. L. 85–477, § 502(a)(3)](/us/pl/85/477/s502/a/3), inserted “or any work under subparagraph (5) of subsection (a) of this section” before “shall not apply”.

1953—Subsec. (f). Act June 30, 1953, added subsec. (f).

1942—Act Dec. 2, 1942, amended section generally. Prior to amendment section read as follows: “Except as herein modified, the provisions of sections 901–921, 922–950 of title 33, as amended, and as the same may be amended hereafter, shall apply in respect to the injury or death of any employee engaged in any employment at any military, air, or naval base acquired after January 1, 1940, by the United States from any foreign government or any lands occupied or used by the United States for military or naval purposes in any Territory or possession outside the continental United States, including Alaska, Guantanamo, and the Philippine Islands, but excluding the Canal Zone, irrespective of the place where the injury or death occurs.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–426](/us/pl/98/426) effective Sept. 28, 1984, see [section 28(e)(1) of Pub. L. 98–426](/us/pl/98/426/s28/e/1), set out as a note under [section 901 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s901), Navigation and Navigable Waters.

#### Effective Date of 1959 Amendment

[Pub. L. 86–70, § 47(g)](/us/pl/86/70/s47/g), June 25, 1959, [73 Stat. 154](/us/stat/73/154), provided that: “The amendments in sections 40 and 42 [amending this section and sections 1701, 1704, and 1711 of this title] shall take effect when enacted [June 25, 1959]: *Provided, however*, That with respect to injuries or deaths occurring on or after January 3, 1959, and prior to the effective date of these amendments, claims filed by employees engaged in the State of Alaska in any of the employments covered by the Defense Base Act [this chapter] (and their dependents) may be adjudicated under the Workmen’s Compensation Act of Alaska instead of the Defense Base Act.”

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

[Pub. L. 85–608, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/85/608/tIV/s402), Aug. 8, 1958, [72 Stat. 539](/us/stat/72/539), provided that: “The effective date of this Act [amending this section, sections 1701, 1702, 1704, 1711, and 1716 of this title, and sections 751 and 790 of former Title 5, Executive Departments and Government Officers and Employees, repealing section 801 of former Title 5, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1701)] is June 30, 1958. Persons are entitled to the benefits of this Act notwithstanding the fact that an injury, disability, or death occurred after June 30, 1958, and before the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 8, 1958].”

#### Short Title

Section 5 of act Aug. 16, 1941, as added by [Pub. L. 85–608, title II, § 202](/us/pl/85/608/tII/s202), Aug. 8, 1958, [72 Stat. 538](/us/stat/72/538), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Defense Base Act’.”

#### Repeals

[Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. IV, § 701, Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 463](/us/stat/75/463), cited as a credit to this section, was repealed by [Pub. L. 87–565](/us/pl/87/565), pt. IV, § 401, Aug. 1, 1962, [76 Stat. 263](/us/stat/76/263), except insofar as section 701 affected this section.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain functions insofar as they pertain to Air Force, and to extent that they were not previously transferred to Secretary of the Air Force and Department of the Air Force from Secretary of the Army and Department of the Army, see Secretary of Defense Transfer Order No. 40 [App. A(74)], July 22, 1949.
