---
title: "§ 4557. Liability for compliance with invalid regulations; discrimination against orders or contracts affected by priorities or allocations"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4557"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4557"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title VII, § 707, [64 Stat. 818](/us/stat/64/818); [June 30, 1952, ch. 530](/us/act/1952-06-30/ch530), title I, § 118, [66 Stat. 306](/us/stat/66/306).)"
---
# § 4557. Liability for compliance with invalid regulations; discrimination against orders or contracts affected by priorities or allocations

##### § 4557. Liability for compliance with invalid regulations; discrimination against orders or contracts affected by priorities or allocations

No person shall be held liable for damages or penalties for any act or failure to act resulting directly or indirectly from compliance with a rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to this chapter, notwithstanding that any such rule, regulation, or order shall thereafter be declared by judicial or other competent authority to be invalid. No person shall discriminate against orders or contracts to which priority is assigned or for which materials or facilities are allocated under subchapter I of this chapter or under any rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder, by charging higher prices or by imposing different terms and conditions for such orders or contracts than for other generally comparable orders or contracts, or in any other manner.

*([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title VII, § 707, [64 Stat. 818](/us/stat/64/818); [June 30, 1952, ch. 530](/us/act/1952-06-30/ch530), title I, § 118, [66 Stat. 306](/us/stat/66/306).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), [64 Stat. 798](/us/stat/64/798), known as the Defense Production Act of 1950, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4501 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4501) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2157 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1952—Act June 30, 1952, in first sentence struck out “his” before “compliance with”.
