---
title: "§ 1025. Printing of monthly publication by Joint Economic Committee entitled “Economic Indicators”; distribution"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1025"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1025"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([June 23, 1949, ch. 237](/us/act/1949-06-23/ch237), [63 Stat. 264](/us/stat/63/264); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 217](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s217), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1747](/us/stat/110/1747).)"
---
# § 1025. Printing of monthly publication by Joint Economic Committee entitled “Economic Indicators”; distribution

##### § 1025. Printing of monthly publication by Joint Economic Committee entitled “Economic Indicators”; distribution

The Joint Economic Committee is authorized to issue a monthly publication entitled “Economic Indicators”, and a sufficient quantity shall be printed to furnish one copy to each Member of Congress; the Secretary and the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate; the Clerk, Sergeant at Arms, and Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives; two copies to the libraries of the Senate and House, and the Congressional Library; seven hundred copies to the Joint Economic Committee; and the required number of copies to the Superintendent of Documents for distribution to depository libraries; and the Superintendent of Documents is authorized to have copies printed for sale to the public.

*([June 23, 1949, ch. 237](/us/act/1949-06-23/ch237), [63 Stat. 264](/us/stat/63/264); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 217](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s217), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1747](/us/stat/110/1747).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as a part of the Employment Act of 1946 which comprises this chapter.

“Joint Economic Committee” substituted in text for “Joint Committee on the Economic Report” to conform to [act June 18, 1956, ch. 399, § 2](/us/act/1956-06-18/ch399/s2), [70 Stat. 290](/us/stat/70/290). See [section 1024(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1024/a).

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) substituted “Chief Administrative Officer” for “Doorkeeper”.
