---
title: "§ 236. Variations from standard permitted; prosecutions; law not applicable to certain barrels"
identifier: "USC-T15-S236"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section236"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 158, § 3](/us/act/1915-03-04/ch158/s3), [38 Stat. 1187](/us/stat/38/1187); [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(c)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/c), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433).)"
---
# § 236. Variations from standard permitted; prosecutions; law not applicable to certain barrels

##### § 236. Variations from standard permitted; prosecutions; law not applicable to certain barrels

Reasonable variations shall be permitted and tolerance shall be established by rules and regulations made by the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and approved by the Secretary of Commerce. Prosecutions for offenses under this section or sections 234 or 235 of this title may be begun upon complaint of local sealers of weights and measures or other officers of the several States and Territories appointed to enforce the laws of the said States or Territories, respectively, relating to weights and measures: *Provided, however*, That nothing in this section or sections 234 and 235 of this title shall apply to barrels used in packing or shipping commodities sold exclusively by weight or numerical count.

*([Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 158, § 3](/us/act/1915-03-04/ch158/s3), [38 Stat. 1187](/us/stat/38/1187); [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(c)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/c), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) substituted “National Institute of Standards and Technology” for “Bureau of Standards”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all other officers of Department of Commerce and functions of all agencies and employees of such Department, with a few exceptions, transferred to Secretary of Commerce, with power vested in him to authorize their performance or performance of any of his functions by any of such officers, agencies, and employees, by Reorg. Plan No. 5 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/64/1263), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
