---
title: "§ 1656. Creation of new district or division or transfer of territory; lien enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T28-S1656"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section1656"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 944](/us/stat/62/944); [Pub. L. 95–598, title II, § 242](/us/pl/95/598/tII/s242), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2671](/us/stat/92/2671).)"
---
# § 1656. Creation of new district or division or transfer of territory; lien enforcement

##### § 1656. Creation of new district or division or transfer of territory; lien enforcement

The creation of a new district or division or the transfer of any territory to another district or division shall not affect or divest any lien theretofore acquired in a district court upon property within such district, division or territory.

To enforce such lien, the clerk of the court in which the same is acquired, upon the request and at the cost of the party desiring the same, shall make a certified copy of the record thereof, which, when filed in the proper court of the district or division in which such property is situated after such creation or transfer shall be evidence in all courts and places equally with the original thereof; and, thereafter like proceedings shall be had thereon, and with the same effect, as though the case or proceeding had been originally instituted in such court.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 944](/us/stat/62/944); [Pub. L. 95–598, title II, § 242](/us/pl/95/598/tII/s242), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2671](/us/stat/92/2671).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 122 ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 60](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s60), [36 Stat. 1103](/us/stat/36/1103)).

A provision as to creation of a new district or division or transfer of territory before March 3, 1911, was omitted as obsolete.

Words descriptive of the lien were omitted as unnecessary.

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598) directed the amendment of section by inserting “or in a bankruptcy court” after “a district court”, which amendment did not become effective pursuant to [section 402(b) of Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598/s402/b), as amended, set out as an Effective Date note preceding [section 101 of Title 11](/us/usc/t11/s101), Bankruptcy.
