---
title: "§ 253. Removal of barriers to entry"
identifier: "USC-T47-S253"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section253"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 253, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 70](/us/stat/110/70).)"
---
# § 253. Removal of barriers to entry

##### § 253. Removal of barriers to entry

(a) In general No State or local statute or regulation, or other State or local legal requirement, may prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the ability of any entity to provide any interstate or intrastate telecommunications service.

(b) State regulatory authority Nothing in this section shall affect the ability of a State to impose, on a competitively neutral basis and consistent with [section 254 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s254), requirements necessary to preserve and advance universal service, protect the public safety and welfare, ensure the continued quality of telecommunications services, and safeguard the rights of consumers.

(c) State and local government authority Nothing in this section affects the authority of a State or local government to manage the public rights-of-way or to require fair and reasonable compensation from telecommunications providers, on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis, for use of public rights-of-way on a nondiscriminatory basis, if the compensation required is publicly disclosed by such government.

(d) Preemption If, after notice and an opportunity for public comment, the Commission determines that a State or local government has permitted or imposed any statute, regulation, or legal requirement that violates subsection (a) or (b), the Commission shall preempt the enforcement of such statute, regulation, or legal requirement to the extent necessary to correct such violation or inconsistency.

(e) Commercial mobile service providers Nothing in this section shall affect the application of [section 332(c)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s332/c/3) to commercial mobile service providers.

(f) Rural markets It shall not be a violation of this section for a State to require a telecommunications carrier that seeks to provide telephone exchange service or exchange access in a service area served by a rural telephone company to meet the requirements in [section 214(e)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s214/e/1) for designation as an eligible telecommunications carrier for that area before being permitted to provide such service. This subsection shall not apply—

(1) to a service area served by a rural telephone company that has obtained an exemption, suspension, or modification of [section 251(c)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s251/c/4) that effectively prevents a competitor from meeting the requirements of [section 214(e)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s214/e/1); and

(2) to a provider of commercial mobile services.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 253, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 70](/us/stat/110/70).)*
