---
title: "§ 8312. Administration and claims"
identifier: "USC-T7-S8312"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section8312"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–171, title X, § 10413](/us/pl/107/171/tX/s10413), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 503](/us/stat/116/503).)"
---
# § 8312. Administration and claims

##### § 8312. Administration and claims

(a) Administration To carry out this chapter, the Secretary may—

(1) acquire and maintain real or personal property;

(2) employ a person;

(3) make a grant; and

(4) notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, enter into a contract, cooperative agreement, memorandum of understanding, or other agreement.

(b) Tort claims

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary may pay a tort claim, in the manner authorized by the first paragraph of [section 2672 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2672), if the claim arises outside the United States in connection with an activity authorized under this chapter.

(2) Requirements A claim may not be allowed under this subsection unless the claim is presented in writing to the Secretary not later than 2 years after the date on which the claim arises.

*([Pub. L. 107–171, title X, § 10413](/us/pl/107/171/tX/s10413), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 503](/us/stat/116/503).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle E (§§ 10401–10418) of title X of [Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 494](/us/stat/116/494), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle E to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 8301 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8301) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to agricultural import and entry inspection activities under this chapter to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 231, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
