---
title: "§ 2921. Statement of policy"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2921"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2921"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XVIII, § 1831](/us/pl/110/53/tXVIII/s1831), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 496](/us/stat/121/496).)"
---
# § 2921. Statement of policy

##### § 2921. Statement of policy

It shall be the policy of the United States, consistent with the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations, to eliminate any obstacles to timely obligating and executing the full amount of any appropriated funds for threat reduction and nonproliferation programs in order to accelerate and strengthen progress on preventing weapons of mass destruction (WMD) proliferation and terrorism. Such policy shall be implemented with concrete measures, such as those described in this chapter, including the removal and modification of statutory limits to executing funds, the expansion and strengthening of the Proliferation Security Initiative, the establishment of the Office of the United States Coordinator for the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism under subchapter III, and the establishment of the Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism under subtitle E.11 See References in Text below. As a result, Congress intends that any funds authorized to be appropriated to programs for preventing WMD proliferation and terrorism under this subchapter will be executed in a timely manner.

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XVIII, § 1831](/us/pl/110/53/tXVIII/s1831), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 496](/us/stat/121/496).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title XVIII of [Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53), which enacted this chapter, amended [section 3021 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3021) and sections 5952 and 5963 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and amended provisions set out as notes under sections 2551 and 5952 of Title 22. For complete classification of title XVIII to the Code, see Tables.

Subtitle E, referred to in text, is subtitle E (§§ 1851–1859) of title XVIII of [Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 501](/us/stat/121/501), which is not classified to the Code.
