---
title: "§ 7672. Sense of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7672"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7672"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–25, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/108/25/tIV/s402), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 745](/us/stat/117/745); [Pub. L. 110–293, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/110/293/tIV/s402), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2966](/us/stat/122/2966).)"
---
# § 7672. Sense of Congress

##### § 7672. Sense of Congress

(a) Increase in HIV/AIDS antiretroviral treatment It is a sense of the Congress that an urgent priority of United States assistance programs to fight HIV/AIDS should be the rapid increase in distribution of antiretroviral treatment so that—

(1) by the end of fiscal year 2004, at least 500,000 individuals with HIV/AIDS are receiving antiretroviral treatment through United States assistance programs;

(2) by the end of fiscal year 2005, at least 1,000,000 such individuals are receiving such treatment; and

(3) by the end of fiscal year 2006, at least 2,000,000 such individuals are receiving such treatment.

(b) Effective distribution of HIV/AIDS funds It is the sense of Congress that, of the amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations under [section 7671 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7671) for HIV/AIDS assistance, 10 percent should be used for orphans and vulnerable children.

*([Pub. L. 108–25, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/108/25/tIV/s402), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 745](/us/stat/117/745); [Pub. L. 110–293, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/110/293/tIV/s402), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2966](/us/stat/122/2966).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–293](/us/pl/110/293) substituted “10 percent should be used” for “an effective distribution of such amounts would be—

“(1) 55 percent of such amounts for treatment of individuals with HIV/AIDS;

“(2) 15 percent of such amounts for palliative care of individuals with HIV/AIDS;

“(3) 20 percent of such amounts for HIV/AIDS prevention consistent with [section 2151b–2(d) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151b–2/d), of which such amount at least 33 percent should be expended for abstinence-until-marriage programs; and

“(4) 10 percent of such amounts”.
