---
title: "§ 211. Acceptance of title; terms and conditions; admission fees"
identifier: "USC-T16-S211"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section211"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([July 17, 1916, ch. 247, § 1](/us/act/1916-07-17/ch247/s1), [39 Stat. 385](/us/stat/39/385); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 211. Acceptance of title; terms and conditions; admission fees

##### § 211. Acceptance of title; terms and conditions; admission fees

The United States of America accepts title to the lands mentioned in the deed of gift or conveyance in possession of the Secretary of War on July 17, 1916, together with all the buildings and appurtenances thereon, especially the log cabin in which Abraham Lincoln was born and the memorial hall inclosing the same, which deed of conveyance was executed on the 11th day of April, 1916, by the Lincoln Farm Association, a corporation, to the United States of America, describing certain lands situated near the town of Hodgenville, county of Larue, State of Kentucky, which lands are more particularly identified and described in said deed or conveyance. The title to such lands, buildings, and appurtenances is accepted upon the terms and conditions stated in said deed or conveyance, namely: That the land therein described, together with the buildings and appurtenances thereon, shall be forever dedicated to the purposes of a national park or reservation, the United States of America agreeing to protect and preserve the said lands, buildings, and appurtenances, and especially the log cabin in which Abraham Lincoln was born and the memorial hall inclosing the same, from spoliation, destruction, and further disintegration, to the end that they may be preserved for all time, so far as may be; and further agreeing that there shall never be any charge or fee made to or asked from the public for admission to the said park or reservation.

*([July 17, 1916, ch. 247, § 1](/us/act/1916-07-17/ch247/s1), [39 Stat. 385](/us/stat/39/385); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, c. 343, title II, [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued military Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Transfer of control of Abraham Lincoln National Park [now Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historical Park] to the Office of National Parks, Buildings and Reservations in the Department of the Interior, see section 2 of Ex. Ord. No. 6166, June 10, 1933, set out as a note under [section 901 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s901), Government Organization and Employees. This office was designated the National Park Service in the Department of the Interior by [act Mar. 2, 1934, ch. 38](/us/act/1934-03-02/ch38), [48 Stat. 389](/us/stat/48/389).
