---
title: "§ 117. Domestic assault by an habitual offender"
identifier: "USC-T18-S117"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section117"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IX, § 909](/us/pl/109/162/tIX/s909), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3084](/us/stat/119/3084); amended [Pub. L. 113–104, § 3](/us/pl/113/104/s3), May 20, 2014, [128 Stat. 1156](/us/stat/128/1156).)"
---
# § 117. Domestic assault by an habitual offender

##### § 117. Domestic assault by an habitual offender

(a) In General.— Any person who commits a domestic assault within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States or Indian country and who has a final conviction on at least 2 separate prior occasions in Federal, State, or Indian tribal court proceedings for offenses that would be, if subject to Federal jurisdiction—

shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for a term of not more than 5 years, or both, except that if substantial bodily injury results from violation under this section, the offender shall be imprisoned for a term of not more than 10 years.

(1) any assault, sexual abuse, or serious violent felony against a spouse or intimate partner, or against a child of or in the care of the person committing the domestic assault; or

(2) an offense under chapter 110A,

(b) Domestic Assault Defined.— In this section, the term “domestic assault” means an assault committed by a current or former spouse, parent, child, or guardian of the victim, by a person with whom the victim shares a child in common, by a person who is cohabitating with or has cohabitated with the victim as a spouse, parent, child, or guardian, or by a person similarly situated to a spouse, parent, child, or guardian of the victim.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IX, § 909](/us/pl/109/162/tIX/s909), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3084](/us/stat/119/3084); amended [Pub. L. 113–104, § 3](/us/pl/113/104/s3), May 20, 2014, [128 Stat. 1156](/us/stat/128/1156).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 113–104](/us/pl/113/104) inserted “, or against a child of or in the care of the person committing the domestic assault” after “intimate partner”.
