---
title: "§ 795. Bailiffs and messengers"
identifier: "USC-T28-S795"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section795"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 924](/us/stat/62/924); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 121(d)(1)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s121/d/1), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 35](/us/stat/96/35); [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/a/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516).)"
---
# § 795. Bailiffs and messengers

##### § 795. Bailiffs and messengers

The chief judge of 11 So in original. Probably should be “of the”. United States Court of Federal Claims, with the approval of the court, may appoint necessary bailiffs and messengers, in such numbers as the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts may approve, each of whom shall be subject to removal by the chief judge, with the approval of the court.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 924](/us/stat/62/924); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 121(d)(1)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s121/d/1), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 35](/us/stat/96/35); [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/a/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 244 ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 139](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s139), [36 Stat. 1136](/us/stat/36/1136)).

The provision in [section 244 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s244), U.S.C., 1940 ed., that the bailiff should serve 4 years unless sooner removed by the court for cause, was changed by omitting the 4-year tenure and removal “for cause” requirement. As revised this section conforms with sections relating to the similar court officers.

Term “chief messenger” in [section 244 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s244), U.S.C., 1940 ed., was changed to “messenger” as the court has but one messenger.

A provision of [section 244 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s244), U.S.C., 1940 ed., providing for appointment of a clerk and assistant is incorporated in [section 791 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s791), and a provision thereof, relating to powers and duties of the clerk, his deputies and assistants, is incorporated in [section 956 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s956).

The second paragraph was added to conform with sections 713, 755, and 834 of this title.

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) substituted “United States Court of Federal Claims” for “United States Claims Court”.

1982—[Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) substituted “Bailiffs and messengers” for “Bailiff and messenger” in section catchline and, in text, substituted “The chief judge of United States Claims Court, with the approval of the court, may appoint necessary bailiffs and messengers, in such numbers as the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts may approve, each of whom shall be subject to removal by the chief judge, with the approval of the court” for “The Court of Claims may appoint a bailiff and a messenger who shall be subject to removal by the court” and struck out provision that the bailiff attend the court, preserve order, and perform such other necessary duties as the court might direct.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) effective Oct. 29, 1992, see [section 911 of Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572/s911), set out as a note under [section 171 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s171).

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) effective Oct. 1, 1982, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164/s402), set out as a note under [section 171 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s171).
