---
title: "§ 3309. Taiwan instrumentality"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3309"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3309"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–8, § 10](/us/pl/96/8/s10), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 18](/us/stat/93/18).)"
---
# § 3309. Taiwan instrumentality

##### § 3309. Taiwan instrumentality

(a) Establishment of instrumentality; Presidential determination of necessary authority Whenever the President or any agency of the United States Government is authorized or required by or pursuant to the laws of the United States to render or provide to or to receive or accept from Taiwan, any performance, communication, assurance, undertaking, or other action, such action shall, in the manner and to the extent directed by the President, be rendered or provided to, or received or accepted from, an instrumentality established by Taiwan which the President determines has the necessary authority under the laws applied by the people on Taiwan to provide assurances and take other actions on behalf of Taiwan in accordance with this chapter.

(b) Offices and personnel The President is requested to extend to the instrumentality established by Taiwan the same number of offices and complement of personnel as were previously operated in the United States by the governing authorities on Taiwan recognized as the Republic of China prior to January 1, 1979.

(c) Privileges and immunities Upon the granting by Taiwan of comparable privileges and immunities with respect to the Institute and its appropriate personnel, the President is authorized to extend with respect to the Taiwan instrumentality and its appropriate personnel, such privileges and immunities (subject to appropriate conditions and obligations) as may be necessary for the effective performance of their functions.

*([Pub. L. 96–8, § 10](/us/pl/96/8/s10), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 18](/us/stat/93/18).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as of January 1, 1979, see [section 18 of Pub. L. 96–8](/us/pl/96/8/s18), set out as a note under [section 3301 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3301).
