---
title: "§ 13219. United States Postal Service"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13219"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13219"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title III, § 311](/us/pl/102/486/tIII/s311), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2874](/us/stat/106/2874).)"
---
# § 13219. United States Postal Service

##### § 13219. United States Postal Service

(a) Omitted

(b) Coordination To the maximum extent practicable, the Postmaster General shall coordinate the Postal Service’s alternative fueled vehicle procurement, placement, refueling, and maintenance programs with those at the Federal, State, and local level. The Postmaster General shall communicate, share, and disseminate, on a regular basis, information on such programs with the Secretary, the Administrator of General Services, and heads of appropriate Federal agencies.

(c) Program criteria The Postmaster General shall consider the following criteria in the procurement and placement of alternative fueled vehicles:

(1) The procurement plans of State and local governments and other public and private institutions.

(2) The current and future availability of refueling and repair facilities.

(3) The reduction in emissions of the Postal fleet.

(4) Whether the vehicle is to be used in a nonattainment area as specified in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.

(5) The operational requirements of the Postal fleet.

(6) The contribution to the reduction in the consumption of oil in the transportation sector.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title III, § 311](/us/pl/102/486/tIII/s311), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2874](/us/stat/106/2874).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, referred to in subsec. (c)(4), probably means [Pub. L. 101–549](/us/pl/101/549), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2399](/us/stat/104/2399). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1990 Amendment note set out under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7401) and Tables.

#### Codification

Subsec. (a) of this section, which required the Postmaster General to biennially submit to Congress a report on the Postal Service’s alternative fueled vehicle program, terminated, effective May 15, 2000, pursuant to [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance. See, also, the 15th item on page 194 of House Document No. 103–7.
