---
title: "§ 6306. Transportation statistical collection, analysis, and dissemination"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 892](/us/stat/126/892).)"
---
# § 6306. Transportation statistical collection, analysis, and dissemination

##### § 6306. Transportation statistical collection, analysis, and dissemination

(1) use the services, equipment, records, personnel, information, and facilities of other Federal agencies, or State, local, and private agencies and instrumentalities, subject to the conditions that the applicable agency or instrumentality consents to that use and with or without reimbursement for such use;

(2) enter into agreements with the agencies and instrumentalities described in paragraph (1) for purposes of data collection and analysis;

(3) confer and cooperate with foreign governments, international organizations, and State, municipal, and other local agencies;

(4) request such information, data, and reports from any Federal agency as the Director determines necessary to carry out this chapter;

(5) encourage replication, coordination, and sharing of information among transportation agencies regarding information systems, information policy, and data; and

(6) confer and cooperate with Federal statistical agencies as the Director determines necessary to carry out this chapter, including by entering into cooperative data sharing agreements in conformity with all laws and regulations applicable to the disclosure and use of data.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 892](/us/stat/126/892).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.
