---
title: "§ 6620. Provision of services and equipment on a reimbursable basis"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6620"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6620"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–83, title I, § 9](/us/pl/108/83/tI/s9), Sept. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 1013](/us/stat/117/1013).)"
---
# § 6620. Provision of services and equipment on a reimbursable basis

##### § 6620. Provision of services and equipment on a reimbursable basis

(a) In general Subject to the approval of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate may provide services and equipment funded by appropriations available to the Senate to persons and entities not funded by such appropriations.

(b) Reimbursement required The provision of services and equipment under subsection (a) shall be on a reimbursable basis.

(c) Crediting of reimbursed amounts In the case of services or equipment provided under subsection (a) that were procured using amounts available to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate in the account for Contingent Expenses, Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, amounts received under subsection (b) as reimbursement for the provision of such services or equipment shall be credited to that account or, if applicable, to any subaccount of that account. Amounts credited to any such account or subaccount shall be merged with amounts in that account or subaccount and shall be available to the same extent, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as amounts in that account or subaccount.

(d) Effective date This section shall apply to fiscal year 2004 and each succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 108–83, title I, § 9](/us/pl/108/83/tI/s9), Sept. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 1013](/us/stat/117/1013).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61f–11 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61f–11) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2004.
