---
title: "§ 10333. Applications to receive grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10333"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10333"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1403](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1403), as added [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(a)(2)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/a/2), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4810](/us/stat/104/4810); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40156(c)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40156/c/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/108/1923).)"
---
# § 10333. Applications to receive grants

##### § 10333. Applications to receive grants

(1) a certification that Federal funds made available under [section 10332 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10332) will not be used to supplant State or local funds, but will be used to increase the amounts of such funds that would, in the absence of such funds, be made available for criminal proceedings for the violation of laws relating to the abuse of children; and

(2) a certification that funds required to pay the non-Federal portion of the cost of equipment and personnel training for which such grant is made shall be in addition to funds that would otherwise be made available by the recipients of grant funds for criminal proceedings for the violation of laws relating to the abuse of children.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1403](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1403), as added [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(a)(2)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/a/2), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4810](/us/stat/104/4810); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40156(c)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40156/c/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/108/1923).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796aa–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796aa–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), in introductory provisions inserted “or unit of local government” after “of a State”, in par. (1) inserted “and” at end, in par. (2) substituted a period for the semicolon at end, and struck out pars. (3) and (4) which read as follows:

“(3) an assurance that the State application described in this section, and any amendment to such application, has been submitted for review to the State legislature or its designated body (for purposes of this section, such application or amendment shall be deemed to be reviewed if the State legislature or such body does not review such application or amendment within the 60-day period beginning on the date such application or amendment is so submitted); and

“(4) an assurance that the State application and any amendment thereto was made public before submission to the Bureau and, to the extent provided under State law or established procedure, an opportunity to comment thereon was provided to citizens and to neighborhood and community groups.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
