---
title: "§ 825s–4. Southwestern Power Administration; deposit and availability of advance payments"
identifier: "USC-T16-S825s–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section825s–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. C, title III](/us/pl/108/447/dC/tIII), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 2956](/us/stat/118/2956).)"
---
# § 825s–4. Southwestern Power Administration; deposit and availability of advance payments

##### § 825s–4. Southwestern Power Administration; deposit and availability of advance payments

Notwithstanding [section 3302 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3302), beginning in fiscal year 2005 and thereafter, such funds as are received by the Southwestern Power Administration from any State, municipality, corporation, association, firm, district, or individual as advance payment for work that is associated with Southwestern’s transmission facilities, consistent with that authorized in [section 825s of this title](/us/usc/t16/s825s), shall be credited to this account and be available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. C, title III](/us/pl/108/447/dC/tIII), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 2956](/us/stat/118/2956).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2005, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005, and not as part of the Federal Power Act which generally comprises this chapter. Section is based on the proviso in the paragraph under the headings “POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS” and “Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration” in title III of div. C of [Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447).

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in the following prior appropriation act:

[Pub. L. 108–137, title III](/us/pl/108/137/tIII), Dec. 1, 2003, [117 Stat. 1858](/us/stat/117/1858).
