---
title: "§ 1722C. Copayments: prohibition on collection of copayments for first three mental health care outpatient visits of veterans"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1722C"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1722C"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title I, § 193A(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tI/s193A/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5440](/us/stat/136/5440).)"
---
# § 1722C. Copayments: prohibition on collection of copayments for first three mental health care outpatient visits of veterans

##### § 1722C. Copayments: prohibition on collection of copayments for first three mental health care outpatient visits of veterans

(a) Prohibition.— Except as provided in subsection (b), notwithstanding [section 1710(g) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1710/g) or any other provision of law, the Secretary may not impose or collect a copayment for the first three mental health care outpatient visits of a veteran in a calendar year for which the veteran would otherwise be required to pay a copayment under the laws administered by the Secretary.

(b) Copayment for Medications.— The prohibition under subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to the imposition or collection of copayments for medications pursuant to [section 1722A of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1722A).

(c) Mental Health Care Outpatient Visit Defined.— In this section, the term “mental health care outpatient visit” means an outpatient visit with a qualified mental health professional for the primary purpose of seeking mental health care or treatment for substance abuse disorder.

(d) Sunset.— This section shall terminate on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of the Joseph Maxwell Cleland and Robert Joseph Dole Memorial Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2022.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title I, § 193A(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tI/s193A/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5440](/us/stat/136/5440).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Joseph Maxwell Cleland and Robert Joseph Dole Memorial Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2022, referred to in subsec. (d), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328), which was approved Dec. 29, 2022.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2023 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title I, § 193A(b)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tI/s193A/b), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5440](/us/stat/136/5440), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall apply with respect to mental health care outpatient visits occurring on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 29, 2022].”
