---
title: "§ 394. Proceeds from sale of products of or leases of withdrawn or reserved lands"
identifier: "USC-T43-S394"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section394"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([July 19, 1919, ch. 24](/us/act/1919-07-19/ch24), [41 Stat. 202](/us/stat/41/202).)"
---
# § 394. Proceeds from sale of products of or leases of withdrawn or reserved lands

##### § 394. Proceeds from sale of products of or leases of withdrawn or reserved lands

The proceeds heretofore or hereafter received from the lease of any lands reserved or withdrawn under the reclamation law or from the sale of the products therefrom shall be covered into the reclamation fund; and where such lands are affected by a reservation or withdrawal under some other law, the proceeds from the lease of land and the sale of products therefrom shall likewise be covered into the reclamation fund in all cases where such lands are needed for the protection or operation of any reservoir or other works constructed under the reclamation law, and such lands shall be and remain under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior.

*([July 19, 1919, ch. 24](/us/act/1919-07-19/ch24), [41 Stat. 202](/us/stat/41/202).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The reclamation law, referred to in text, is identified in [act July 19, 1919, ch. 24](/us/act/1919-07-19/ch24), [41 Stat. 200](/us/stat/41/200), under the heading “reclamation service”, as [act June 17, 1902, ch. 1093](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093), [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), and Acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto. Act June 17, 1902, popularly known as the Reclamation Act, is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of act June 17, 1902, to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.
