---
title: "§ 3047. Restrictions on intelligence sharing with United Nations"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3047"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3047"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 112, formerly § 110, as added [Pub. L. 104–293, title III, § 308(a)](/us/pl/104/293/tIII/s308/a), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3466](/us/stat/110/3466); renumbered § 112, [Pub. L. 105–107, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/105/107/tIII/s303/b), Nov. 20, 1997, [111 Stat. 2252](/us/stat/111/2252); amended [Pub. L. 107–306, title VIII, § 811(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/107/306/tVIII/s811/b/1/C), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2422](/us/stat/116/2422); [Pub. L."
---
# § 3047. Restrictions on intelligence sharing with United Nations

##### § 3047. Restrictions on intelligence sharing with United Nations

(a) Provision of intelligence information to United Nations

(1) No United States intelligence information may be provided to the United Nations or any organization affiliated with the United Nations, or to any officials or employees thereof, unless the President certifies to the appropriate committees of Congress that the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, has established and implemented procedures, and has worked with the United Nations to ensure implementation of procedures, for protecting from unauthorized disclosure United States intelligence sources and methods connected to such information.

(2) Paragraph (1) may be waived upon written certification by the President to the appropriate committees of Congress that providing such information to the United Nations or an organization affiliated with the United Nations, or to any officials or employees thereof, is in the national security interests of the United States.

(b) Delegation of duties The President may not delegate or assign the duties of the President under this section.

(c) Relationship to existing law Nothing in this section shall be construed to—

(1) impair or otherwise affect the authority of the Director of National Intelligence to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure pursuant to [section 3024(i) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3024/i); or

(2) supersede or otherwise affect the provisions of subchapter III of this chapter.

(d) “Appropriate committees of Congress” defined As used in this section, the term “appropriate committees of Congress” means the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 112, formerly § 110, as added [Pub. L. 104–293, title III, § 308(a)](/us/pl/104/293/tIII/s308/a), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3466](/us/stat/110/3466); renumbered § 112, [Pub. L. 105–107, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/105/107/tIII/s303/b), Nov. 20, 1997, [111 Stat. 2252](/us/stat/111/2252); amended [Pub. L. 107–306, title VIII, § 811(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/107/306/tVIII/s811/b/1/C), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2422](/us/stat/116/2422); [Pub. L. 108–177, title III](/us/pl/108/177/tIII), §§ 361(b), 377(a), Dec. 13, 2003, [117 Stat. 2625](/us/stat/117/2625), 2630; [Pub. L. 108–458, title I](/us/pl/108/458/tI), §§ 1071(a)(1)(K), (L), 1072(a)(4), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3689](/us/stat/118/3689), 3692; [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 347(b)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s347/b), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2698](/us/stat/124/2698); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6742(b)(5)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6742/b/5), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2240](/us/stat/133/2240).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 404g of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404g) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section, and to [section 404d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404d–1) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 105–107](/us/pl/105/107). Some section numbers of this title referenced in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections prior to their editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) substituted “section 3024(i)” for “section 3025(c)(7)”.

2010—Subsecs. (b) to (e). [Pub. L. 111–259](/us/pl/111/259) redesignated subsecs. (c) to (e) as (b) to (d), respectively, and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (b) read as follows:

“(1) The President shall report annually to the appropriate committees of Congress on the types and volume of intelligence provided to the United Nations and the purposes for which it was provided during the period covered by the report. The President shall also report to the appropriate committees of Congress within 15 days after it has become known to the United States Government that there has been an unauthorized disclosure of intelligence provided by the United States to the United Nations.

“(2) The requirement for periodic reports under the first sentence of paragraph (1) shall not apply to the provision of intelligence that is provided only to, and for the use of, appropriately cleared United States Government personnel serving with the United Nations.

“(3) In the case of the annual reports required to be submitted under the first sentence of paragraph (1) to the congressional intelligence committees, the submittal dates for such reports shall be as provided in [section 415b of this title](/us/usc/t50/s415b).”

2004—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 108–458, § 1071(a)(1)(K)](/us/pl/108/458/s1071/a/1/K), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 108–458, § 1072(a)(4)](/us/pl/108/458/s1072/a/4), which directed amendment of par. (1) by substituting “section 403–1(i)” for “section 403–3(c)(6)”, could not be executed because the words “section 403–3(c)(6)” did not appear after the amendment by [Pub. L. 108–177, § 377(a)](/us/pl/108/177/s377/a). See 2003 Amendment note below.

[Pub. L. 108–458, § 1071(a)(1)(L)](/us/pl/108/458/s1071/a/1/L), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.

2003—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–177, § 361(b)(1)](/us/pl/108/177/s361/b/1), substituted “Annual” for “Periodic” in heading.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 108–177, § 361(b)(2)](/us/pl/108/177/s361/b/2), substituted “annually” for “semiannually”.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 108–177, § 361(b)(3)](/us/pl/108/177/s361/b/3), substituted “the annual” for “periodic”.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 108–177, § 377(a)](/us/pl/108/177/s377/a), substituted “section 403–3(c)(7)” for “section 403–3(c)(6)”.

2002—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 107–306](/us/pl/107/306) added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

For Determination by President that amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

Amendment by [section 361(b) of Pub. L. 108–177](/us/pl/108/177/s361/b) effective Dec. 31, 2003, see [section 361(n) of Pub. L. 108–177](/us/pl/108/177/s361/n), set out as a note under [section 1611 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1611), Armed Forces.
