---
title: "§ 10238. Accountability and oversight"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10238"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10238"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, § 1003](/us/pl/106/386/dB/s1003), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1491](/us/stat/114/1491).)"
---
# § 10238. Accountability and oversight

##### § 10238. Accountability and oversight

(a) Report by grant recipients The Attorney General or Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, shall require grantees under any program authorized or reauthorized by this division or an amendment made by this division to report on the effectiveness of the activities carried out with amounts made available to carry out that program, including number of persons served, if applicable, numbers of persons seeking services who could not be served and such other information as the Attorney General or Secretary may prescribe.

(b) Report to Congress The Attorney General or Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, shall report biennially to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Senate on the grant programs described in subsection (a), including the information contained in any report under that subsection.

*([Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, § 1003](/us/pl/106/386/dB/s1003), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1491](/us/stat/114/1491).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This division, referred to in subsec. (a), is division B of [Pub. L. 106–386](/us/pl/106/386), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1491](/us/stat/114/1491), known as the Violence Against Women Act of 2000. For complete classification of division B to the Code, see Short Title of 2000 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Violence Against Women Act of 2000, and also as part of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, and not as part of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 3789p of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3789p), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
