---
title: "§ 3173. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3173"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3173"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title IX, § 903, as added [Pub. L. 104–93, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/104/93/tIII/s303/a), Jan. 6, 1996, [109 Stat. 964](/us/stat/109/964); amended [Pub. L. 107–306, title III, § 353(b)(2)(C)](/us/pl/107/306/tIII/s353/b/2/C), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2402](/us/stat/116/2402).)"
---
# § 3173. Reports

##### § 3173. Reports

Reports to Congress pursuant to sections 3171 and 3172 of this title shall be submitted promptly upon determinations under this subchapter. Such reports shall be submitted to the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate. With respect to determinations relating to intelligence sources and methods, reports shall also be submitted to the congressional intelligence committees. With respect to determinations relating to ongoing criminal investigations, reports shall also be submitted to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title IX, § 903, as added [Pub. L. 104–93, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/104/93/tIII/s303/a), Jan. 6, 1996, [109 Stat. 964](/us/stat/109/964); amended [Pub. L. 107–306, title III, § 353(b)(2)(C)](/us/pl/107/306/tIII/s353/b/2/C), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2402](/us/stat/116/2402).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 441b of this title](/us/usc/t50/s441b) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2002—[Pub. L. 107–306](/us/pl/107/306) substituted “congressional intelligence committees” for “Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.
