---
title: "§ 2224. Details of employees from and to Division of Accounts and Disbursements and bureaus and offices; traveling expenses"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2224"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2224"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1912, ch. 284](/us/act/1912-08-10/ch284), [37 Stat. 294](/us/stat/37/294).)"
---
# § 2224. Details of employees from and to Division of Accounts and Disbursements and bureaus and offices; traveling expenses

##### § 2224. Details of employees from and to Division of Accounts and Disbursements and bureaus and offices; traveling expenses

Employees of the Division of Accounts and Disbursements may be detailed by the Secretary of Agriculture for accounting and disbursing work in any of the bureaus and offices of the department for duty in or out of the city of Washington, and employees of the bureaus and offices of the department may also be detailed to the Division of Accounts and Disbursements for duty in or out of the city of Washington, traveling expenses of employees so detailed to be paid from the appropriation of the bureau or office in connection with which such travel is performed.

*([Aug. 10, 1912, ch. 284](/us/act/1912-08-10/ch284), [37 Stat. 294](/us/stat/37/294).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Division of Accounts and Disbursements, referred to in text, was a division of the Department of Agriculture at the time of enactment of this section. The activities of that Division are now performed by the various departmental offices in the Department of Agriculture under the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Administration. In a similar consolidation of operations, but one carried out in a different department, the Division of Disbursement and certain other offices and agencies and their functions in the Treasury Department were consolidated into the Fiscal Service of the Treasury Department by 1940 Reorg. Plan No. III, § 1(a), eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2107, [54 Stat. 1231](/us/stat/54/1231), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 533 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s533) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers, agencies, and employees of Department of Agriculture transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2201).
