---
title: "§ 3313. Compliance with certificate of inspection"
identifier: "USC-T46-S3313"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section3313"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 515](/us/stat/97/515).)"
---
# § 3313. Compliance with certificate of inspection

##### § 3313. Compliance with certificate of inspection

(a) During the term of a vessel’s certificate of inspection, the vessel must be in compliance with its conditions, unless relieved by a suspension or an exemption granted under [section 3306(e) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s3306/e).

(b) When a vessel is not in compliance with its certificate or fails to meet a standard prescribed by this part or a regulation prescribed under this part—

(1) the owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, master, or individual in charge shall be ordered in writing to correct the noted deficiencies promptly;

(2) the Secretary may permit any repairs to be made at a place most convenient to the owner, charterer, or managing operator when the Secretary decides the repairs can be made with safety to those on board and the vessel;

(3) the vessel may be required to cease operating at once; and

(4) if necessary, the certificate shall be suspended or revoked.

(c) The vessel’s certificate of inspection shall be revoked if a condition unsafe to life that is ordered to be corrected under this section is not corrected at once.

(d) The owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, master, or individual in charge of a vessel whose certificate has been suspended or revoked shall be given written notice immediately of the suspension or revocation. The owner or master may appeal to the Secretary the suspension or revocation within 30 days of receiving the notice, as provided by regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 515](/us/stat/97/515).)*

Section 3313 requires a vessel to be maintained in a condition so as to always be in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Here the master, owner, or other responsible party is required to maintain the vessel to inspection standards and to correct all deficiencies observed. When a vessel is not in compliance with its certificate the responsible parties shall be ordered in writing to correct the deficiencies promptly. The section provides flexibility as to when and where these deficiencies may be corrected consistent with the safety of the vessel and crew. The section provides authority to require the vessel to cease operating or, if necessary, to suspend or revoke its certificate of inspection when found not to be in compliance with its certificate or regulations. The owner or master, or other responsible party must be given written notice and may appeal this action within 30 days of receiving the notice.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 3313 | 46:390c46:391a(8)46:435 |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Apr. 15, 1984, see [section 2(g)(1) of Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89/s2/g/1), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s3101).
