---
title: "§ 107b–3. Audit of nonappropriated fund activities"
identifier: "USC-T20-S107b–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section107b–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–516, title II, § 211](/us/pl/93/516/tII/s211), Dec. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1630](/us/stat/88/1630); [Pub. L. 93–651, title II, § 211](/us/pl/93/651/tII/s211), Nov. 21, 1974, [89 Stat. 2–15](/us/stat/89/2-15).)"
---
# § 107b–3. Audit of nonappropriated fund activities

##### § 107b–3. Audit of nonappropriated fund activities

The Comptroller General is authorized to conduct regular and periodic audits of all nonappropriated fund activities which receive income from vending machines on Federal property, under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe. In the conduct of such audits he and his duly authorized representatives shall have access to any relevant books, documents, papers, accounts, and records of such activities as he deems necessary.

*([Pub. L. 93–516, title II, § 211](/us/pl/93/516/tII/s211), Dec. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1630](/us/stat/88/1630); [Pub. L. 93–651, title II, § 211](/us/pl/93/651/tII/s211), Nov. 21, 1974, [89 Stat. 2–15](/us/stat/89/2-15).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Randolph-Sheppard Act Amendments of 1974, and not as part of the Randolph-Sheppard Act which comprises this chapter.

The content of [Pub. L. 93–516](/us/pl/93/516), including provisions of section 211 thereof which enacted this section, were originally contained in H.R. 14225, 93rd Congress, Second Session, which was pocket-vetoed during the 31-day intrasession adjournment of the 93rd Congress for the Congressional elections in November, 1974.

Pursuant to an order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (*Kennedy v. Jones*, D.C.D.C. 1976, 412 F.Supp. 353) H.R. 14225 was deemed to have become law without the approval of the President on Nov. 21, 1974, and was given the designation [Pub. L. 93–651](/us/pl/93/651). Therefore, for purposes of codification, this section should be deemed to have been enacted by [Pub. L. 93–651, title II, § 211](/us/pl/93/651/tII/s211), Nov. 21, 1974, [89 Stat. 2–15](/us/stat/89/2-15), in exactly the same manner as it was enacted by [Pub. L. 93–516](/us/pl/93/516).
