---
title: "§ 5591. Media support services"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5591"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5591"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–289, div. B, title II, § 20702(b)](/us/pl/109/289/dB/tII/s20702/b), as added [Pub. L. 110–5, § 2](/us/pl/110/5/s2), Feb. 15, 2007, [121 Stat. 38](/us/stat/121/38).)"
---
# § 5591. Media support services

##### § 5591. Media support services

(a) Support services for presidential nominating conventions The responsibilities of positions under the House Press Gallery, the House Periodical Press Gallery, and the House Radio and Television Correspondents’ Gallery shall include providing media support services with respect to the presidential nominating conventions of the national committees of political parties.

(b) Agreements with national committees The Standing Committee of Correspondents may enter into agreements with national committees of political parties under which the committees and persons authorized by the committees may reimburse employees for necessary expenses incurred in carrying out the responsibilities described in subsection (a) and employees may accept such reimbursement.

(c) Terms and conditions The terms and conditions under which employees exercise responsibilities under subsection (a), and the terms and conditions of any agreement entered into under subsection (b), shall be subject to the approval of the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

(d) Definition In this section, the terms “national committee” and “political party” have the meaning given such terms in [section 30101 of title 52](/us/usc/t52/s30101).

*([Pub. L. 109–289, div. B, title II, § 20702(b)](/us/pl/109/289/dB/tII/s20702/b), as added [Pub. L. 110–5, § 2](/us/pl/110/5/s2), Feb. 15, 2007, [121 Stat. 38](/us/stat/121/38).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 130*l* of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007, which is div. B of [Pub. L. 109–289](/us/pl/109/289), and is based on section 107 of title I of H.R. 5521, as passed by the House of Representatives on June 7, 2006, which was enacted into law by [section 20702(b) of Pub. L. 109–289](/us/pl/109/289/s20702/b), as added by [Pub. L. 110–5](/us/pl/110/5).
