---
title: "§ 2649. State and Federal law"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2649"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2649"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–469, title II, § 209](/us/pl/94/469/tII/s209), as added [Pub. L. 99–519, § 2](/us/pl/99/519/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2986](/us/stat/100/2986).)"
---
# § 2649. State and Federal law

##### § 2649. State and Federal law

(a) No preemption Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed, interpreted, or applied to preempt, displace, or supplant any other State or Federal law, whether statutory or common.

(b) Cost and damage awards Nothing in this subchapter or any standard, regulation, or requirement promulgated pursuant to this subchapter shall be construed or interpreted to preclude any court from awarding costs and damages associated with the abatement, including the removal, of asbestos-containing material, or a portion of such costs, at any time prior to the actual date on which such material is removed.

(c) State may establish more requirements Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed or interpreted as preempting a State from establishing any additional liability or more stringent requirements with respect to asbestos in school buildings within such State.

(d) No Federal cause of action Nothing in this subchapter creates a cause of action or in any other way increases or diminishes the liability of any person under any other law.

(e) Intent of Congress It is not the intent of Congress that this subchapter or rules, regulations, or orders issued pursuant to this subchapter be interpreted as influencing, in either the plaintiff’s or defendant’s favor, the disposition of any civil action for damages relating to asbestos. This subsection does not affect the authority of any court to make a determination in an adjudicatory proceeding under applicable State law with respect to the admission into evidence or any other use of this subchapter or rules, regulations, or orders issued pursuant to this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 94–469, title II, § 209](/us/pl/94/469/tII/s209), as added [Pub. L. 99–519, § 2](/us/pl/99/519/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2986](/us/stat/100/2986).)*
