---
title: "§ 435. Limitations"
identifier: "USC-T10-S435"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section435"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–88, title V, § 504(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/88/tV/s504/a/2), Aug. 14, 1991, [105 Stat. 439](/us/stat/105/439).)"
---
# § 435. Limitations

##### § 435. Limitations

(a) Lawful Activities.— Nothing in this subchapter authorizes the conduct of any intelligence activity that is not otherwise authorized by law or Executive order.

(b) Domestic Activities.— Personnel conducting commercial activity authorized by this subchapter may only engage in those activities in the United States to the extent necessary to support intelligence activities abroad.

(c) Providing Goods and Services to the Department of Defense.— Commercial activity may not be undertaken within the United States for the purpose of providing goods and services to the Department of Defense, other than as may be necessary to provide security for the activities subject to this subchapter.

(d) Notice to United States Persons.—

(1) In carrying out a commercial activity authorized under this subchapter, the Secretary of Defense may not permit an entity engaged in such activity to employ a United States person in an operational, managerial, or supervisory position, and may not assign or detail a United States person to perform operational, managerial, or supervisory duties for such an entity, unless that person is informed in advance of the intelligence security purpose of that activity.

(2) In this subsection, the term “United States person” means an individual who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–88, title V, § 504(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/88/tV/s504/a/2), Aug. 14, 1991, [105 Stat. 439](/us/stat/105/439).)*
