---
title: "§ 1472. Parity of protection for provision or use of Next Generation 9–1–1 services"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1472"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1472"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6506](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6506), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 242](/us/stat/126/242).)"
---
# § 1472. Parity of protection for provision or use of Next Generation 9–1–1 services

##### § 1472. Parity of protection for provision or use of Next Generation 9–1–1 services

(a) Immunity A provider or user of Next Generation 9–1–1 services, a public safety answering point, and the officers, directors, employees, vendors, agents, and authorizing government entity (if any) of such provider, user, or public safety answering point, shall have immunity and protection from liability under Federal and State law to the extent provided in subsection (b) with respect to—

(1) the release of subscriber information related to emergency calls or emergency services;

(2) the use or provision of 9–1–1 services, E9–1–1 services, or Next Generation 9–1–1 services; and

(3) other matters related to 9–1–1 services, E9–1–1 services, or Next Generation 9–1–1 services.

(b) Scope of immunity and protection from liability The scope and extent of the immunity and protection from liability afforded under subsection (a) shall be the same as that provided under [section 615a of this title](/us/usc/t47/s615a) to wireless carriers, public safety answering points, and users of wireless 9–1–1 service (as defined in paragraphs (4), (3), and (6), respectively, of [section 615b of this title](/us/usc/t47/s615b) 11 See References in Text note below.) with respect to such release, use, and other matters.

*([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6506](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6506), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 242](/us/stat/126/242).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 615b of this title](/us/usc/t47/s615b), referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original a reference to section 6 of the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999, [Pub. L. 106–81](/us/pl/106/81), and was translated as if it had been a reference to [section 7 of Pub. L. 106–81](/us/pl/106/81/s7), which is classified to [section 615b of this title](/us/usc/t47/s615b), to reflect the probable intent of Congress and the renumbering of [section 6 of Pub. L. 106–81](/us/pl/106/81/s6) as section 7 by [Pub. L. 110–283, title I, § 101(1)](/us/pl/110/283/tI/s101/1), July 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 2620](/us/stat/122/2620). [Pub. L. 110–283, title I, § 101(3)](/us/pl/110/283/tI/s101/3), July 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 2620](/us/stat/122/2620) enacted a new section 6 of the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999 which is classified to [section 215a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s215a–1), but that section does not contain definitions.
