---
title: "§ 9221b. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that provide financial services to certain sanctioned persons"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9221b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9221b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–122, title II, § 201B](/us/pl/114/122/tII/s201B), as added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7121(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7121/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2245](/us/stat/133/2245).)"
---
# § 9221b. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that provide financial services to certain sanctioned persons

##### § 9221b. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that provide financial services to certain sanctioned persons

(a) In general The Secretary of the Treasury shall impose one or more of the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to a foreign financial institution that the Secretary determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly, on or after the date that is 120 days after December 20, 2019, provides significant financial services to any person designated for the imposition of sanctions with respect to North Korea under—

(1) subsection (a), (b), or (g) of [section 9214 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9214);

(2) an applicable Executive order; or

(3) an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution.

(b) Sanctions described The sanctions that may be imposed with respect to a foreign financial institution subject to subsection (a) are the following:

(1) Asset blocking The Secretary may block and prohibit, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.), all transactions in all property and interests in property of the foreign financial institution if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.

(2) Restrictions on correspondent and payable-through accounts The Secretary may prohibit, or impose strict conditions on, the opening or maintaining in the United States of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by the foreign financial institution.

(c) Implementation; penalties

(1) Implementation The President may exercise all authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1702](/us/usc/t50/s1702) and 1704) to carry out this section.

(2) Penalties A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1705](/us/usc/t50/s1705)) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.

(d) Regulations Not later than 120 days after December 20, 2019, the President shall, as appropriate, prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

(e) Exception relating to importation of goods

(1) In general Notwithstanding [section 9254(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9254/b) or any provision of this section, the authorities and requirements to impose sanctions under this section shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.

(2) Good defined In this subsection, the term “good” means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.

(f) Definitions In this section:

(1) Account; correspondent account; payable-through account The terms “account”, “correspondent account”, and “payable-through account” have the meanings given those terms in [section 5318A of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5318A).

(2) Foreign financial institution The term “foreign financial institution” has the meaning given that term in section 510.309 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).

(3) Knowingly The term “knowingly”, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

*([Pub. L. 114–122, title II, § 201B](/us/pl/114/122/tII/s201B), as added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXI, § 7121(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXI/s7121/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2245](/us/stat/133/2245).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is title II of [Pub. L. 95–223](/us/pl/95/223), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/91/1626), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s1701) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions and authorities under [section 7121 of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/s7121) with respect to this section delegated to Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, by section 1(b)(iii) of Memorandum of President of the United States, Feb. 21, 2020, 85 F.R. 13717, set out as a note under [section 286yy of this title](/us/usc/t22/s286yy).
