---
title: "§ 20702. Establishment of a grant program to develop, expand, and strengthen assistance programs for certain persons subject to trafficking"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–164, title II, § 202](/us/pl/109/164/tII/s202), Jan. 10, 2006, [119 Stat. 3569](/us/stat/119/3569); [Pub. L. 110–457, title III, § 302(3)](/us/pl/110/457/tIII/s302/3), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5087](/us/stat/122/5087); [Pub. L. 113–4, title XII, § 1241(a)](/us/pl/113/4/tXII/s1241/a), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 149](/us/stat/127/149); [Pub. L. 115–393, title III, § 301(e)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/393/tIII/s301/e/1/A), (3), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5272](/us/stat/132/5272); [Pub. L. 117–348"
---
# § 20702. Establishment of a grant program to develop, expand, and strengthen assistance programs for certain persons subject to trafficking

##### § 20702. Establishment of a grant program to develop, expand, and strengthen assistance programs for certain persons subject to trafficking

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Assistant Secretary The term “Assistant Secretary” means the Assistant Secretary for Children and Families of the Department of Health and Human Services.

(2) Assistant Attorney General The term “Assistant Attorney General” means the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice.

(3) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means a State or unit of local government that—

(A) has significant criminal activity involving sex trafficking of minors;

(B) has demonstrated cooperation between Federal, State, local, and, where applicable, tribal law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, and social service providers in addressing sex trafficking of minors;

(C) has developed a workable, multi-disciplinary plan to combat sex trafficking of minors, including—

(i) building or establishing a residential care facility for minor victims of sex trafficking;

(ii) the provision of rehabilitative care to minor victims of sex trafficking;

(iii) the provision of specialized training for law enforcement officers and social service providers for all forms of sex trafficking, with a focus on sex trafficking of minors;

(iv) prevention, deterrence, and prosecution of offenses involving sex trafficking of minors;

(v) cooperation or referral agreements with organizations providing outreach or other related services to runaway and homeless youth; and

(vi) law enforcement protocols or procedures to screen all individuals arrested for prostitution, whether adult or minor, for victimization by sex trafficking and by other crimes, such as sexual assault and domestic violence; and

(D) provides assurance that a minor victim of sex trafficking shall not be required to collaborate with law enforcement to have access to residential care or services provided with a grant under this section.

(4) Minor victim of sex trafficking The term “minor victim of sex trafficking” means an individual who—

(A) is younger than 18 years of age, and is a victim of an offense described in [section 1591(a) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1591/a) or a comparable State law; or

(B)

(i) is not younger than 18 years of age nor older than 20 years of age;

(ii) before the individual reached 18 years of age, was described in subparagraph (A); and

(iii) was receiving shelter or services as a minor victim of sex trafficking.

(5) Qualified nongovernmental organization The term “qualified nongovernmental organization” means an organization that—

(A) is not a State or unit of local government, or an agency of a State or unit of local government;

(B) has demonstrated experience providing services to victims of sex trafficking or related populations (such as runaway and homeless youth), or employs staff specialized in the treatment of sex trafficking victims; and

(C) demonstrates a plan to sustain the provision of services beyond the period of a grant awarded under this section.

(6) Sex trafficking of a minor The term “sex trafficking of a minor” means an offense described in [section 1591(a) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1591/a) or a comparable State law, against a minor.

(b) Sex trafficking block grants

(1) Grants authorized

(A) In general The Assistant Attorney General, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary, may make block grants to 4 eligible entities located in different regions of the United States to combat sex trafficking of minors.

(B) Requirement Not fewer than 1 of the block grants made under subparagraph (A) shall be awarded to an eligible entity with a State population of less than 5,000,000.

(C) Grant amount Subject to the availability of appropriations under subsection (g) to carry out this section, each grant made under this section shall be for an amount not less than $1,500,000 and not greater than $2,000,000.

(D) Duration

(i) In general A grant made under this section shall be for a period of 1 year.

(ii) Renewal

(I) In general The Assistant Attorney General may renew a grant under this section for up to 3 1-year periods.

(II) Priority In making grants in any fiscal year after the first fiscal year in which grants are made under this section, the Assistant Attorney General shall give priority to an eligible entity that received a grant in the preceding fiscal year and is eligible for renewal under this subparagraph, taking into account any evaluation of the eligible entity conducted under paragraph (4), if available.

(E) Consultation In carrying out this section, the Assistant Attorney General shall consult with the Assistant Secretary with respect to—

(i) evaluations of grant recipients under paragraph (4);

(ii) avoiding unintentional duplication of grants; and

(iii) any other areas of shared concern.

(2) Use of funds

(A) Allocation Not less than 67 percent of each grant made under paragraph (1) shall be used by the eligible entity to provide residential care and services (as described in clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (B)) to minor victims of sex trafficking through qualified nongovernmental organizations.

(B) Authorized activities Grants awarded pursuant to paragraph (2) may be used for—

(i) providing residential care to minor victims of sex trafficking, including temporary or long-term placement as appropriate;

(ii) providing 24-hour emergency social services response for minor victims of sex trafficking;

(iii) providing minor victims of sex trafficking with clothing and other daily necessities needed to keep such victims from returning to living on the street;

(iv) case management services for minor victims of sex trafficking;

(v) mental health counseling for minor victims of sex trafficking, including specialized counseling and substance abuse treatment;

(vi) legal services for minor victims of sex trafficking;

(vii) specialized training for social service providers, public sector personnel, and private sector personnel likely to encounter sex trafficking victims on issues related to the sex trafficking of minors and severe forms of trafficking in persons;

(viii) outreach and education programs to provide information about deterrence and prevention of sex trafficking of minors;

(ix) programs to provide treatment to individuals charged or cited with purchasing or attempting to purchase sex acts in cases where—

(I) a treatment program can be mandated as a condition of a sentence, fine, suspended sentence, or probation, or is an appropriate alternative to criminal prosecution; and

(II) the individual was not charged with purchasing or attempting to purchase sex acts with a minor; and

(x) screening and referral of minor victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.

(3) Application

(A) In general Each eligible entity desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Assistant Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Assistant Attorney General may reasonably require.

(B) Contents Each application submitted pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall—

(i) describe the activities for which assistance under this section is sought; and

(ii) provide such additional assurances as the Assistant Attorney General determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.

(4) Evaluation The Assistant Attorney General shall enter into a contract with an academic or non-profit organization that has experience in issues related to sex trafficking of minors and evaluation of grant programs to conduct an annual evaluation of each grant made under this section to determine the impact and effectiveness of programs funded with the grant.

(5) Pilot demonstration program

(A) Establishment The Assistant Attorney General, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary, shall establish a pilot demonstration program, through which community-based organizations in underserved communities, prioritizing rural communities, in the United States may apply for funding to develop, implement, and build replicable treatment models, based on the type of housing unit that the individual being treated lives in, with supportive services and innovative care, treatment, and services.

(B) Population to be served The program established pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall primarily serve adolescents and youth who—

(i) are transitioning out of foster care;

(ii) struggle with substance use disorder;

(iii) are pregnant or parenting; or

(iv) have experienced foster care involvement or involvement in the child welfare system, child poverty, child abuse or neglect, human trafficking, juvenile justice involvement, gang involvement, or homelessness.

(C) Authorized activities Funding provided under subparagraph (A) may be used for—

(i) providing residential care, including temporary or long-term placement as appropriate;

(ii) providing 24-hour emergency social services response;

(iii) providing clothing and other daily necessities needed to keep individuals from returning to living on the street;

(iv) case management services;

(v) mental health counseling, including specialized counseling and substance abuse treatment;

(vi) legal services;

(vii) specialized training for social service providers, public sector personnel, and private sector personnel likely to encounter sex trafficking and labor trafficking victims on issues related to the sex trafficking and labor trafficking of minors; and

(viii) outreach and education programs to provide information about deterrence and prevention of sex trafficking and labor trafficking of minors.

(D) Funding priority The Assistant Attorney General shall give funding priority to community-based programs that provide crisis stabilization, emergency shelter, and addiction treatment for adolescents and transitional age residential programs that have reputable outcomes.

(c) Mandatory exclusion An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section that is found to have utilized grant funds for any unauthorized expenditure or otherwise unallowable cost shall not be eligible for any grant funds awarded under the grant for 2 fiscal years following the year in which the unauthorized expenditure or unallowable cost is reported.

(d) Compliance requirement An eligible entity shall not be eligible to receive a grant under this section if, during the 5 fiscal years before the eligible entity submits an application for the grant, the eligible entity has been found to have violated the terms or conditions of a Government grant program by utilizing grant funds for unauthorized expenditures or otherwise unallowable costs.

(e) Administrative cap The cost of administering the grants authorized by this section shall not exceed 3 percent of the total amount appropriated to carry out this section.

(f) Audit requirement For fiscal years 2016 and 2017, the Inspector General of the Department of Justice shall conduct an audit of all 4 eligible entities that receive block grants under this section.

(g) Match requirement An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall provide a non-Federal match in an amount equal to not less than—

(1) 15 percent of the grant during the first year;

(2) 25 percent of the grant during the first renewal period;

(3) 40 percent of the grant during the second renewal period; and

(4) 50 percent of the grant during the third renewal period.

(h) No limitation on section 20705 grants An entity that applies for a grant under [section 20705 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20705) is not prohibited from also applying for a grant under this section.

(i) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated $8,000,000 to the Attorney General for each of the fiscal years 2018 through 2021 to carry out this section.

(j) GAO evaluation Not later than 30 months after March 7, 2013, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report to Congress that contains—

(1) an evaluation of the impact of this section in aiding minor victims of sex trafficking in the jurisdiction of the entity receiving the grant; and

(2) recommendations, if any, regarding any legislative or administrative action the Comptroller General determines appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 109–164, title II, § 202](/us/pl/109/164/tII/s202), Jan. 10, 2006, [119 Stat. 3569](/us/stat/119/3569); [Pub. L. 110–457, title III, § 302(3)](/us/pl/110/457/tIII/s302/3), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5087](/us/stat/122/5087); [Pub. L. 113–4, title XII, § 1241(a)](/us/pl/113/4/tXII/s1241/a), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 149](/us/stat/127/149); [Pub. L. 115–393, title III, § 301(e)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/393/tIII/s301/e/1/A), (3), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5272](/us/stat/132/5272); [Pub. L. 117–348, title I, § 103](/us/pl/117/348/tI/s103), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6215](/us/stat/136/6215).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

March 7, 2013, referred to in subsec. (j), was in the original “the date of the enactment of this Act”, which was translated as meaning the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4), which amended this section generally, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14044a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14044a), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 117–348](/us/pl/117/348) added par. (5).

2018—[Pub. L. 115–393, § 301(e)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/393/s301/e/1/A), amended section to read as it read on Mar 6, 2017. See 2013 Amendment note below. Prior to amendment, section consisted of subsecs. (a) to (d) relating to grant programs to develop, expand, and strengthen assistance programs for certain persons subject to trafficking.

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 115–393, § 301(e)(3)](/us/pl/115/393/s301/e/3), substituted “2018 through 2021” for “2014 through 2017”.

2013—[Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) temporarily amended section generally, so as to consist of subsecs. (a) to (j) relating to grant programs to develop, expand, and strengthen assistance programs for certain persons subject to trafficking. See Effective and Termination Dates of 2013 Amendment note below.

2008—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 110–457](/us/pl/110/457) substituted “$8,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2011” for “$10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2006 and 2007”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–393, title III, § 301(e)(2)](/us/pl/115/393/tIII/s301/e/2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5272](/us/stat/132/5272), provided that: “The amendments made by paragraph (1) [amending this section and repealing provisions set out as a note under this section] shall take effect as though enacted on March 6, 2017.”

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2013 Amendment

[Pub. L. 113–4, title XII, § 1241(b)](/us/pl/113/4/tXII/s1241/b), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 153](/us/stat/127/153), which provided that the amendment made to this section by [section 1241(a) of Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4/s1241/a) would be effective during the 4-year period beginning on Mar. 7, 2013, was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–393, title III, § 301(e)(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/393/tIII/s301/e/1/B), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5272](/us/stat/132/5272).
