---
title: "§ 1952. Payments from Fund for families of Detective Gibson and Private First Class Chestnut and certain other United States Capitol Police employees"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1952"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1952"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–223, § 2](/us/pl/105/223/s2), Aug. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1250](/us/stat/112/1250); [Pub. L. 115–45, § 2(a)](/us/pl/115/45/s2/a), Aug. 4, 2017, [131 Stat. 956](/us/stat/131/956).)"
---
# § 1952. Payments from Fund for families of Detective Gibson and Private First Class Chestnut and certain other United States Capitol Police employees

##### § 1952. Payments from Fund for families of Detective Gibson and Private First Class Chestnut and certain other United States Capitol Police employees

(a) In general Except to the extent used or reserved for use under subsection (b) and subject to the regulations issued under [section 1954 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1954), amounts in the Fund shall be paid to the families of Detective John Michael Gibson and Private First Class Jacob Joseph Chestnut of the United States Capitol Police as follows:

(1) Fifty percent of such amounts shall be paid to the widow and children of Detective Gibson.

(2) Fifty percent of such amounts shall be paid to the widow and children of Private First Class Chestnut.

(b) Payments for employees killed in the line of duty or sustaining serious line-of-duty injuries In addition to the amounts paid under subsection (a), and in accordance with the regulations issued under [section 1954(b) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1954/b), amounts in the Fund may be paid to—

(1) families of employees of the United States Capitol Police who were killed in the line of duty; or

(2) employees of the United States Capitol Police who have sustained serious line-of-duty injuries.

*([Pub. L. 105–223, § 2](/us/pl/105/223/s2), Aug. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1250](/us/stat/112/1250); [Pub. L. 115–45, § 2(a)](/us/pl/115/45/s2/a), Aug. 4, 2017, [131 Stat. 956](/us/stat/131/956).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 207c–1 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–45](/us/pl/115/45) inserted “and certain other United States Capitol Police employees” at end of section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, substituted “Except to the extent used or reserved for use under subsection (b) and subject to the regulations” for “Subject to the regulations”, and added subsec. (b).
