---
title: "§ 3030. Temporary appointment or advancement of commissioned officers in time of war or national emergency"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3030"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3030"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 230](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s230), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3087](/us/stat/116/3087).)"
---
# § 3030. Temporary appointment or advancement of commissioned officers in time of war or national emergency

##### § 3030. Temporary appointment or advancement of commissioned officers in time of war or national emergency

(a) In general Officers of the Administration shall be subject in like manner and to the same extent as personnel of the Navy to all laws authorizing temporary appointment or advancement of commissioned officers in time of war or national emergency.

(b) Limitations Subsection (a) shall be applied subject to the following limitations:

(1) A commissioned officer in the service of a military department under [section 3061 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3061) may, upon the recommendation of the Secretary of the military department concerned, be temporarily promoted to a higher rank or grade.

(2) A commissioned officer in the service of the Administration may be temporarily promoted to fill vacancies in ranks and grades caused by the transfer of commissioned officers to the service and jurisdiction of a military department under [section 3061 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3061).

(3) Temporary appointments may be made in all grades to which original appointments in the Administration are authorized, except that the number of officers holding temporary appointments may not exceed the number of officers transferred to a military department under [section 3061 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3061).

*([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 230](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s230), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3087](/us/stat/116/3087).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Provisions similar to this section are contained in [section 854a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s854a–1).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under subsec. (b) of this section delegated to Secretary of Commerce by section 1(h)–(j) of Ex. Ord. No. 11023, May 28, 1962, 27 F.R. 5131, as amended, set out as a note under [section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), The President.
