---
title: "§ 300hh–37. One Health framework"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300hh–37"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300hh–37"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2235](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2235), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5755](/us/stat/136/5755).)"
---
# § 300hh–37. One Health framework

##### § 300hh–37. One Health framework

(a) One Health framework The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”), acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall develop, or update as appropriate, in coordination with other Federal departments and agencies, as appropriate, a One Health framework to address zoonotic diseases and advance public health preparedness.

(b) One Health coordination The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall coordinate with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior to develop a One Health coordination mechanism at the Federal level to strengthen One Health collaboration related to prevention, detection, control, and response for zoonotic diseases and related One Health work across the Federal Government.

(c) Reporting Not later than 1 year after December 29, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report providing an update on the activities under subsections (a) and (b).

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2235](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2235), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5755](/us/stat/136/5755).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Prepare for and Respond to Existing Viruses, Emerging New Threats, and Pandemics Act, also known as the PREVENT Pandemics Act, and also as part of the Health Extenders, Improving Access to Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP, and Strengthening Public Health Act of 2022, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
