---
title: "§ 505a–1. Asset Management Report enhancements for reserved works"
identifier: "USC-T43-S505a–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section505a–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–9, title VIII, § 8602](/us/pl/116/9/tVIII/s8602), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 827](/us/stat/133/827).)"
---
# § 505a–1. Asset Management Report enhancements for reserved works

##### § 505a–1. Asset Management Report enhancements for reserved works

(a) In general Not later than 2 years after March 12, 2019, the Secretary shall submit to Congress an Asset Management Report that—

(1) describes the efforts of the Bureau—

(A) to maintain in a reliable manner all reserved works at Reclamation facilities; and

(B) to standardize and streamline data reporting and processes across regions and areas for the purpose of maintaining reserved works at Reclamation facilities; and

(2) expands on the information otherwise provided in an Asset Management Report, in accordance with subsection (b).

(b) Infrastructure maintenance needs assessment

(1) In general The Asset Management Report submitted under subsection (a) shall include—

(A) a detailed assessment of major repair and rehabilitation needs for all reserved works at all Reclamation projects; and

(B) to the maximum extent practicable, an itemized list of major repair and rehabilitation needs of individual Reclamation facilities at each Reclamation project.

(2) Inclusions To the maximum extent practicable, the itemized list of major repair and rehabilitation needs under paragraph (1)(B) shall include—

(A) a budget level cost estimate of the appropriations needed to complete each item; and

(B) an assignment of a categorical rating for each item, consistent with paragraph (3).

(3) Rating requirements

(A) In general The system for assigning ratings under paragraph (2)(B) shall be—

(i) consistent with existing uniform categorization systems to inform the annual budget process and agency requirements; and

(ii) subject to the guidance and instructions issued under subparagraph (B).

(B) Guidance As soon as practicable after March 12, 2019, the Secretary shall issue guidance that describes the applicability of the rating system applicable under paragraph (2)(B) to Reclamation facilities.

(4) Public availability Except as provided in paragraph (5), the Secretary shall make publicly available, including on the internet, the Asset Management Report required under subsection (a).

(5) Confidentiality The Secretary may exclude from the public version of the Asset Management Report made available under paragraph (4) any information that the Secretary identifies as sensitive or classified, but shall make available to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a version of the report containing the sensitive or classified information.

(c) Updates Not later than 2 years after the date on which the Asset Management Report is submitted under subsection (a) and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall update the Asset Management Report, subject to the requirements of [section 505a–2(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t43/s505a–2/b/2).

(d) Consultation To the extent that such consultation would assist the Secretary in preparing the Asset Management Report under subsection (a) and updates to the Asset Management Report under subsection (c), the Secretary shall consult with—

(1) the Secretary of the Army (acting through the Chief of Engineers); and

(2) water and power contractors.

*([Pub. L. 116–9, title VIII, § 8602](/us/pl/116/9/tVIII/s8602), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 827](/us/stat/133/827).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition of “Secretary”

Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 116–9](/us/pl/116/9/s2), set out as a note under [section 1 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1), Conservation.
