---
title: "§ 7509. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S7509"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section7509"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–153, § 10](/us/pl/108/153/s10), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1931](/us/stat/117/1931).)"
---
# § 7509. Definitions

##### § 7509. Definitions

(1) Advisory Panel The term “Advisory Panel” means the President’s National Nanotechnology Advisory Panel established or designated under [section 7503 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7503).

(2) Nanotechnology The term “nanotechnology” means the science and technology that will enable one to understand, measure, manipulate, and manufacture at the atomic, molecular, and supramolecular levels, aimed at creating materials, devices, and systems with fundamentally new molecular organization, properties, and functions.

(3) Program The term “Program” means the National Nanotechnology Program established under [section 7501 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7501).

(4) Council The term “Council” means the National Science and Technology Council or an appropriate subgroup designated by the Council under [section 7501(c) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7501/c).

(5) Advanced technology user facility The term “advanced technology user facility” means a nanotechnology research and development facility supported, in whole or in part, by Federal funds that is open to all United States researchers on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis.

(6) Program component area The term “program component area” means a major subject area established under [section 7501(c)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7501/c/2) under which is 11 So in original. Probably should be “are”. grouped related individual projects and activities carried out under the Program.

*([Pub. L. 108–153, § 10](/us/pl/108/153/s10), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1931](/us/stat/117/1931).)*
