---
title: "§ 3707. NASA ocean acidification activities"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12408](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12408), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/123/1441); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10648](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10648), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1681](/us/stat/136/1681).)"
---
# § 3707. NASA ocean acidification activities

##### § 3707. NASA ocean acidification activities

(a) Ocean acidification activities The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, in coordination with other relevant agencies, shall ensure that space-based monitoring assets are used in as productive a manner as possible for monitoring of ocean acidification and coastal acidification and their respective impacts.

(b) Program consistency The Administrator shall ensure that the Agency’s research and monitoring activities on ocean acidification and coastal acidification are carried out in a manner consistent with the strategic research plan developed by the Subcommittee under [section 3704 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3704).

(c) Coordination The Administrator shall encourage coordination of the Agency’s ocean acidification and coastal acidification activities with such activities of other nations and international organizations.

(d) Requirement Researchers from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration under this subtitle that collect data described under [section 3705(d) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3705/d) shall—

(1) collect such data in accordance with the standards, protocols, or procedures established pursuant to [section 3705(d) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3705/d); and

(2) submit such data to the Administrator and the Secretary, in accordance with any rules promulgated by the Administrator or the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12408](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12408), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/123/1441); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10648](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10648), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1681](/us/stat/136/1681).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–167, § 10648(1)](/us/pl/117/167/s10648/1), substituted “ocean acidification and coastal acidification” for “ocean acidification” wherever appearing in text.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10648(2)](/us/pl/117/167/s10648/2), substituted “their respective impacts” for “its impacts”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10648(3)](/us/pl/117/167/s10648/3), added subsec. (d).
