---
title: "§ 192. Default in payment of circulating notes"
identifier: "USC-T12-S192"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section192"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 5234; [May 15, 1916, ch. 121](/us/act/1916-05-15/ch121), [39 Stat. 121](/us/stat/39/121); [Aug. 23, 1935, ch. 614](/us/act/1935-08-23/ch614), title III, § 339, [49 Stat. 721](/us/stat/49/721); [Pub. L. 86–230, § 17](/us/pl/86/230/s17), Sept. 8, 1959, [73 Stat. 458](/us/stat/73/458); [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(11)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/11), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2294](/us/stat/108/2294).)"
---
# § 192. Default in payment of circulating notes

##### § 192. Default in payment of circulating notes

On becoming satisfied, as specified in sections 131 and 132 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, that any association is in default, the Comptroller of the Currency may forthwith appoint a receiver, and require of him such bond and security as he deems proper. Such receiver, under the direction of the Comptroller, shall take possession of the books, records, and assets of every description of such association, collect all debts, dues, and claims belonging to it, and, upon the order of a court of record of competent jurisdiction, may sell or compound all bad or doubtful debts, and, on a like order, may sell all the real and personal property of such association, on such terms as the court shall direct. Such receiver shall pay over all money so made to the Treasurer of the United States, subject to the order of the Comptroller, and also make report to the Comptroller of all his acts and proceedings.

*(R.S. § 5234; [May 15, 1916, ch. 121](/us/act/1916-05-15/ch121), [39 Stat. 121](/us/stat/39/121); [Aug. 23, 1935, ch. 614](/us/act/1935-08-23/ch614), title III, § 339, [49 Stat. 721](/us/stat/49/721); [Pub. L. 86–230, § 17](/us/pl/86/230/s17), Sept. 8, 1959, [73 Stat. 458](/us/stat/73/458); [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(11)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/11), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2294](/us/stat/108/2294).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 131 and 132 of this title, referred to in text, were repealed by [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(e)(14)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/e/14), (15), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2292](/us/stat/108/2292).

Section 12B of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, referred to in text, formerly classified to [section 264 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s264), has been withdrawn from the Federal Reserve Act and incorporated in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§ 1811 et seq.) of this title.

#### Codification

R.S. § 5234 derived from [act June 3, 1864, ch. 106, § 50](/us/act/1864-06-03/ch106/s50), [13 Stat. 114](/us/stat/13/114), which was part of the National Bank Act. See [section 38 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s38).

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–325](/us/pl/103/325) struck out “has refused to pay its circulating notes as therein mentioned, and” before “is in default”.

1959—[Pub. L. 86–230](/us/pl/86/230) struck out provisions which required receiver to enforce the personal liability of shareholders.

1935—Act Aug. 23, 1935, inserted second proviso in second par.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Application to District of Columbia

Provisions of this section were made applicable to banks, etc., in the District of Columbia by [act Mar. 4, 1933, ch. 274, § 4](/us/act/1933-03-04/ch274/s4), [47 Stat. 1567](/us/stat/47/1567).

#### Interest on Deposits

So much of existing law requiring the payment of interest with respect to any funds deposited by the United States or by any public instrumentality, agency, or officer thereof, as is inconsistent with former section 371a, sections 371b, 374, 374a, and 461, former sections 462 to 465, and [section 466 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s466), repealed, see former [section 371a of this title](/us/usc/t12/s371a).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions to Secretary of the Treasury, see note set out under [section 55 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s55).
