---
title: "§ 2653. Evacuation of family pets and contract working dogs during noncombatant evacuations of foreign countries"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2653"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2653"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title III, § 372](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tIII/s372), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 836](/us/stat/139/836).)"
---
# § 2653. Evacuation of family pets and contract working dogs during noncombatant evacuations of foreign countries

##### § 2653. Evacuation of family pets and contract working dogs during noncombatant evacuations of foreign countries

(a) Authority to Evacuate.— Subject to the limitations under subsection (b), in the event of a situation during which the Department of Defense evacuates noncombatants from a foreign country, the Secretary of Defense may enter into agreements with appropriate nonprofit entities under which such entities provide for the evacuation of—

(1) the family pets of citizens of the United States who are evacuated by the Department; and

(2) contract working dogs located in such country.

(b) Limitations.— The limitations under this subsection are as follows:

(1) The Department of Defense is not responsible for providing veterinary care for a family pet or contract working dog by reason of the evacuation of the pet or dog pursuant to subsection (a).

(2) The Secretary may not exercise the authority under subsection (a) if the exercise of such authority would result in a reduction in the number of individuals who would otherwise be evacuated.

(3) The operator of a vehicle used for evacuation may refuse to evacuate a family pet or contract working dog if the operator determines that the evacuation would create a safety risk to other passengers or personnel.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title III, § 372](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tIII/s372), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 836](/us/stat/139/836).)*
