---
title: "§ 44934. Foreign Security Liaison Officers"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44934"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44934"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1217](/us/stat/108/1217); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 101(f)(4)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s101/f/4), (5), (7), (9), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 603](/us/stat/115/603); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(d)(25)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/d/25), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3638](/us/stat/132/3638).)"
---
# § 44934. Foreign Security Liaison Officers

##### § 44934. Foreign Security Liaison Officers

(a) Establishment, Designation, and Stationing.— The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall establish the position of Foreign Security Liaison Officer for each airport outside the United States at which the Administrator decides an Officer is necessary for air transportation security. In coordination with the Secretary of State, the Administrator shall designate an Officer for each of those airports. In coordination with the Secretary of State, the Administrator shall designate an Officer for each of those airports where extraordinary security measures are in place. The Secretary of State shall give high priority to stationing those Officers.

(b) Duties and Powers.— An Officer reports directly to the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration. The Officer at each airport shall—

(1) serve as the liaison of the Administrator to foreign security authorities (including governments of foreign countries and foreign airport authorities) in carrying out United States Government security requirements at that airport; and

(2) to the extent practicable, carry out duties and powers referred to in [section 44933(b) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s44933/b).

(c) Coordination of Activities.— The activities of each Officer shall be coordinated with the chief of the diplomatic mission of the United States to which the Officer is assigned. Activities of an Officer under this section shall be consistent with the duties and powers of the Secretary of State and the chief of mission to a foreign country under section 103 of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 ([22 U.S.C. 4802](/us/usc/t22/s4802)) and section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 ([22 U.S.C. 3927](/us/usc/t22/s3927)).

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1217](/us/stat/108/1217); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 101(f)(4)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s101/f/4), (5), (7), (9), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 603](/us/stat/115/603); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(d)(25)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/d/25), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3638](/us/stat/132/3638).)*

In subsection (a), the words “Not later than 90 days after November 16, 1990” are omitted as obsolete. The words “shall designate” are substituted for “shall begin assigning” for consistency with the source provisions restated in section 44933 of the revised title and because of the restatement. The words “Not later than 2 years after November 16, 1990” are omitted as obsolete. The word “designate” is substituted for “assign” for consistency with the source provisions restated in section 44933 of the revised title. The words “outside the United States” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), before clause (1), the words “to the office of” are omitted as unnecessary. In clause (1), the words “governments of foreign countries and foreign airport authorities” are substituted for “foreign governments and airport authorities” for clarity and consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code. In clause (2), the words “duties and powers” are substituted for “responsibilities” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code.

In subsection (c), the words “duties and powers” are substituted for “authorities” for clarity and consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 44934(a) | 49 App.:1358b(b)(1), (2). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 319(b); added Nov. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101–604, § 104, 104 Stat. 3071. |
| 44934(b) | 49 App.:1358b(b)(3), (4). |  |
| 44934(c) | 49 App.:1358b(b)(5). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(25)(A)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/25/A), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security”, “airports. In coordination with the Secretary of State” for “airports. In coordination with the Secretary”, “The Secretary of State shall give high priority” for “The Secretary shall give high priority”, and, wherever appearing, “Administrator” for “Under Secretary”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(25)(B)(i)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/25/B/i), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(25)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/25/B/ii), substituted “Administrator” for “Under Secretary”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(25)(C)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/25/C), substituted “the Secretary of State and the chief” for “the Secretary and the chief”.

2001—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 101(f)(7)](/us/pl/107/71/s101/f/7), (9), substituted “Under Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing and “of Transportation for Security” for “of the Federal Aviation Administration”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 101(f)(4)](/us/pl/107/71/s101/f/4), substituted “Under Secretary” for “Assistant Administrator for Civil Aviation Security” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 101(f)(5)](/us/pl/107/71/s101/f/5), substituted “Under Secretary” for “Assistant Administrator”.
