---
title: "§ 2401e. Qualifying requirements for agricultural commodity producers"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2401e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2401e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–618, title II, § 296](/us/pl/93/618/tII/s296), as added [Pub. L. 107–210, div. A, title I, § 141(a)](/us/pl/107/210/dA/tI/s141/a), Aug. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 949](/us/stat/116/949); amended [Pub. L. 108–429, title II, § 2004(a)(9)](/us/pl/108/429/tII/s2004/a/9), Dec. 3, 2004, [118 Stat. 2590](/us/stat/118/2590); [Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, § 1883(a)](/us/pl/111/5/dB/tI/s1883/a), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 416](/us/stat/123/416); [Pub. L. 112–40, title II, § 201(b)](/us/pl/112/40/t"
---
# § 2401e. Qualifying requirements for agricultural commodity producers

##### § 2401e. Qualifying requirements for agricultural commodity producers

(a) In general

(1) Requirements Payment of a 11 So in original. Probably should be “an”. adjustment assistance under this part shall be made to an adversely affected agricultural commodity producer covered by a certification under this part who files an application for such assistance within 90 days after the date on which the Secretary makes a determination and issues a certification of eligibility under [section 2401b of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2401b), if the following conditions are met:

(A) The producer submits to the Secretary sufficient information to establish the amount of agricultural commodity covered by the application filed under this subsection that was produced by the producer in the most recent year.

(B) The producer certifies that the producer has not received cash benefits under any provision of this subchapter other than this part.

(C) The producer’s net farm income (as determined by the Secretary) for the most recent year is less than the producer’s net farm income for the latest year in which no adjustment assistance was received by the producer under this part.

(D) The producer certifies that the producer has met with an Extension Service employee or agent to obtain, at no cost to the producer, information and technical assistance that will assist the producer in adjusting to import competition with respect to the adversely affected agricultural commodity, including—

(i) information regarding the feasibility and desirability of substituting 1 or more alternative commodities for the adversely affected agricultural commodity; and

(ii) technical assistance that will improve the competitiveness of the production and marketing of the adversely affected agricultural commodity by the producer, including yield and marketing improvements.

(2) Limitations

(A) Adjusted gross income

(i) In general Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, an agricultural commodity producer shall not be eligible for assistance under this part in any year in which the average adjusted gross income of the producer exceeds the level set forth in [section 1308–3a of title 7](/us/usc/t7/s1308–3a).

(ii) Certification To comply with the limitation under subparagraph (A),22 So in original. Probably should be a reference to clause (i). an individual or entity shall provide to the Secretary—

(I) a certification by a certified public accountant or another third party that is acceptable to the Secretary that the average adjusted gross income of the producer does not exceed the level set forth in [section 1308–3a of title 7](/us/usc/t7/s1308–3a); or

(II) information and documentation regarding the adjusted gross income of the producer through other procedures established by the Secretary.

(B) Counter-cyclical payments The total amount of payments made to an agricultural producer under this part during any crop year may not exceed the limitation on counter-cyclical payments set forth in section 1308(c) 33 See References in Text note below. of title 7.

(C) Definitions In this subsection:

(i) Adjusted gross income The term “adjusted gross income” means adjusted gross income of an agricultural commodity producer—

(I) as defined in [section 62 of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s62) and implemented in accordance with procedures established by the Secretary; and

(II) that is earned directly or indirectly from all agricultural and nonagricultural sources of an individual or entity for a fiscal or corresponding crop year.

(ii) Average adjusted gross income

(I) In general The term “average adjusted gross income” means the average adjusted gross income of a producer for each of the 3 preceding taxable years.

(II) Effective adjusted gross income In the case of a producer that does not have an adjusted gross income for each of the 3 preceding taxable years, the Secretary shall establish rules that provide the producer with an effective adjusted gross income for the applicable year.

(b) Amount of cash benefits

(1) In general Subject to the provisions of [section 2401g of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2401g), an adversely affected agricultural commodity producer described in subsection (a) shall be entitled to adjustment assistance under this part in an amount equal to the product of—

(A) one-half of the difference between—

(i) an amount equal to 80 percent of the average of the national average price of the agricultural commodity covered by the application described in subsection (a) for the 5 marketing years preceding the most recent marketing year, and

(ii) the national average price of the agricultural commodity for the most recent marketing year, and

(B) the amount of the agricultural commodity produced by the agricultural commodity producer in the most recent marketing year.

(2) Special rule for subsequent qualified years The amount of cash benefits for a qualified year shall be determined in the same manner as cash benefits are determined under paragraph (1), except that the average national price of the agricultural commodity shall be determined under paragraph (1)(A)(i) by using the 5-marketing-year period used to determine the amount of cash benefits for the first certification.

(c) Maximum amount of cash assistance The maximum amount of cash benefits an agricultural commodity producer may receive in any 12-month period shall not exceed $10,000.

(d) Limitations on other assistance An agricultural commodity producer entitled to receive a cash benefit under this part—

(1) shall not be eligible for any other cash benefit under this subchapter, and

(2) shall be entitled to employment services and training benefits under division II of subpart B of part 2.

*([Pub. L. 93–618, title II, § 296](/us/pl/93/618/tII/s296), as added [Pub. L. 107–210, div. A, title I, § 141(a)](/us/pl/107/210/dA/tI/s141/a), Aug. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 949](/us/stat/116/949); amended [Pub. L. 108–429, title II, § 2004(a)(9)](/us/pl/108/429/tII/s2004/a/9), Dec. 3, 2004, [118 Stat. 2590](/us/stat/118/2590); [Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, § 1883(a)](/us/pl/111/5/dB/tI/s1883/a), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 416](/us/stat/123/416); [Pub. L. 112–40, title II, § 201(b)](/us/pl/112/40/tII/s201/b), (c), Oct. 21, 2011, [125 Stat. 403](/us/stat/125/403); [Pub. L. 114–27, title IV, § 402(b)](/us/pl/114/27/tIV/s402/b), (c), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 374](/us/stat/129/374).)*

#### Termination of Assistance

For termination of assistance under this part after June 30, 2022, see Termination Date note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1308(c) of title 7](/us/usc/t7/s1308/c), referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(B), was struck out, and new subsecs. (b) and (c) containing provisions relating to counter-cyclical payments were added, by [Pub. L. 110–246, § 1603(b)(2)](/us/pl/110/246/s1603/b/2). Those subsecs. (b) and (c) were subsequently struck out, and new subsecs. (b) and (c) relating to limitations on total amount of payments were added, by [Pub. L. 113–79, § 1603(a)](/us/pl/113/79/s1603/a).

#### Codification

Section reflects the July 1, 2021, reversion to provisions in effect on Jan. 1, 2014. See Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival note below.

[Section 233 of Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40/s233), which provided for the Jan. 1, 2014, revival of this section as in effect on Feb. 13, 2011, was repealed by [Pub. L. 114–27, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/114/27/tIV/s402/a), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 374](/us/stat/129/374), and the provisions of this section, as in effect on Dec. 31, 2013, were temporarily revived, effective June 29, 2015, until July 1, 2021, by [Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27), §§ 402(b), (c), 406. See 2011 and 2015 Amendment notes, Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival notes, and Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival notes below.

[Section 1893 of Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5/s1893), which provided for Feb. 13, 2011, termination of amendment by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), was repealed by [Pub. L. 112–40, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/112/40/tII/s201/a), Oct. 21, 2011, [125 Stat. 403](/us/stat/125/403), and the provisions of this section, as amended by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5) and as in effect on Feb. 12, 2011, were temporarily revived, effective Oct. 21, 2011, until Jan. 1, 2014, by [Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), §§ 201(b), (c), 233. See 2009 and 2011 Amendment notes, Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment notes, and Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival notes below.

#### Amendments

2015—[Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27), §§ 402(b), (c), 406, temporarily revived the provisions of this section, as in effect on Dec. 31, 2013. See Codification note above and 2011 Amendment and Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival notes below.

2011—[Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), §§ 201(b), (c), 233, temporarily revived the provisions of this section, as in effect on Feb. 12, 2011. See Codification note above and 2009 Amendment and Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival notes below.

2009—[Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), §§ 1883(a), 1893, temporarily amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to qualifying requirements for adjustment assistance, amount of cash benefits, maximum amount in any 12-month period, and limitations on other assistance. See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note below.

2004—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 108–429, § 2004(a)(9)(A)(i)](/us/pl/108/429/s2004/a/9/A/i), substituted “adjustment assistance under this part” for “trade adjustment allowance” and “such assistance” for “such allowance” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 108–429, § 2004(a)(9)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/108/429/s2004/a/9/A/ii), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to this subsection.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 108–429, § 2004(a)(9)(B)](/us/pl/108/429/s2004/a/9/B), substituted “paragraph (1), except” for “paragraph (1) except”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival

For revival and applicability, beginning on June 29, 2015, of the provisions of this section as in effect on Dec. 31, 2013, see section 402(b), (c) of [Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27), set out as a note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).

For reversion, beginning on July 1, 2021, to the provisions of this section as in effect on Jan. 1, 2014, with certain exceptions and subject to [section 406(b) of Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27/s406/b), see [section 406 of Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27/s406), set out as a note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival

For revival and applicability, beginning on Oct. 21, 2011, of the provisions of this section as in effect on Feb. 12, 2011, see section 201(b), (c) of [Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), set out as a note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).

[Section 233 of Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40/s233), formerly set out as a note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271), which provided for the reversion, beginning on Jan. 1, 2014, of the provisions of this section to those in effect on Feb. 13, 2011, subject to certain exceptions, was repealed by [Pub. L. 114–27, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/114/27/tIV/s402/a), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 374](/us/stat/129/374), effective June 29, 2015. See Codification note above.

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment

Except as otherwise provided and subject to certain applicability provisions, amendment by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5) effective upon the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on Feb. 17, 2009, see [section 1891 of Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5/s1891), set out as a note under [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).

[Section 1893 of Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5/s1893), formerly set out as a Termination Date of 2009 Amendment note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271), which provided that, except as otherwise provided, amendment by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5) not applicable on or after Feb. 13, 2011, and that this section be applied and administered beginning Feb. 13, 2011, as if amendment by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5) had never been enacted, was repealed by [Pub. L. 112–40, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/112/40/tII/s201/a), Oct. 21, 2011, [125 Stat. 403](/us/stat/125/403), effective Oct. 21, 2011. See Codification note above.

#### Termination Date

Except as otherwise provided, technical assistance and financial assistance may not be provided under this part after June 30, 2022, see [section 285 of Pub. L. 93–618](/us/pl/93/618/s285), as modified by [section 406(a)(7) of Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27/s406/a/7), set out as notes preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).
