---
title: "§ 2565. Wayne Morse Chair of Law and Politics"
identifier: "USC-T20-S2565"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section2565"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–482, title V, § 525](/us/pl/94/482/tV/s525), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2241](/us/stat/90/2241); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)"
---
# § 2565. Wayne Morse Chair of Law and Politics

##### § 2565. Wayne Morse Chair of Law and Politics

(a) Establishment The Secretary of Education (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Secretary”) is authorized to provide financial assistance in accordance with the provisions of this section to assist in establishing the Wayne Morse Chair of Law and Politics at the University of Oregon, of Eugene, Oregon.

(b) Federal share; application for financial assistance

(1) For purposes of this section, the Federal share of the cost of establishing the Wayne Morse Chair of Law and Politics shall not exceed 50 per centum.

(2) No financial assistance under this section may be made except upon an application at such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by such information, as the Secretary may reasonably require.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums, not to exceed $500,000, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section. Funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 94–482, title V, § 525](/us/pl/94/482/tV/s525), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2241](/us/stat/90/2241); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 30 days after Oct. 12, 1976, except either as specifically otherwise provided or, if not so specifically otherwise provided, effective July 1, 1976, where section provides for authorization of appropriations, see [section 532 of Pub. L. 94–482](/us/pl/94/482/s532), set out as an Effective Date of 1976 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary” substituted for “Commissioner” in subsecs. (a) and (b) pursuant to sections 301(a)(1) and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441(a)(1) and 3507 of this title and which transferred functions of Commissioner of Education to Secretary of Education.
