---
title: "§ 3684A. Procedures relating to computer matching program"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3684A"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3684A"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–366, title II, § 206(a)](/us/pl/101/366/tII/s206/a), Aug. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 441](/us/stat/104/441), § 1784A; renumbered § 3684A, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)"
---
# § 3684A. Procedures relating to computer matching program

##### § 3684A. Procedures relating to computer matching program

(a)

(1) Notwithstanding [section 552a(p) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a/p) and subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Secretary may suspend, terminate, reduce, or make a final denial of any financial assistance or payment under an educational assistance program provided for in chapter 30 or 32 of this title or in chapter 106 of title 10 in the case of any individual, or take other adverse action against such individual, based on information produced by a matching program with the Department of Defense.

(2) The Secretary may not take any action referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection until—

(A) the individual concerned has been provided a written notice containing a statement of the findings of the Secretary based on the matching program, a description of the proposed action, and notice of the individual’s right to contest such findings within 10 days after the date of the notice; and

(B) the 10-day period referred to in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph has expired.

(3) In computing the 10-day period referred to in paragraph (2) of this subsection, Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays shall be excluded.

(b) For the purposes of subsection (q) of [section 552a of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a), compliance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall be considered compliance with the provisions of subsection (p) of such section 552a.

(c) For purposes of this section, the term “matching program” has the same meaning provided in [section 552a(a)(8) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a/a/8).

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–366, title II, § 206(a)](/us/pl/101/366/tII/s206/a), Aug. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 441](/us/stat/104/441), § 1784A; renumbered § 3684A, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) renumbered [section 1784A of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1784A) as this section.
