---
title: "§ 6712. Powers of other agencies and instrumentalities in the development area"
identifier: "USC-T40-S6712"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section6712"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1197](/us/stat/116/1197).)"
---
# § 6712. Powers of other agencies and instrumentalities in the development area

##### § 6712. Powers of other agencies and instrumentalities in the development area

This subchapter and the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act of 1972 ([Public Law 92–578](/us/pl/92/578), [86 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/86/1266)) do not preclude other agencies or instrumentalities of the Federal Government or of the District of Columbia from exercising any lawful powers in the development area consistent with the development plan described in section 5(a) of the Act ([86 Stat. 1269](/us/stat/86/1269)) or the provisions and purposes of this subchapter and the Act. However, the agency or instrumentality shall not release, modify, or depart from any feature or detail of the development plan without the prior approval of the Administrator of General Services.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1197](/us/stat/116/1197).)*

In this subchapter, the words “Administrator of General Services” are substituted for “Corporation” to reflect the transfer of the responsibilities of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation. See section 6702 of the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6712 | 40:876(a). | Pub. L. 92–578, § 7(a), Oct. 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1272. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act of 1972, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 92–578](/us/pl/92/578), Oct. 27, 1972, [86 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/86/1266), which was classified to chapter 19 (§ 871 et seq.) of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, prior to repeal and reenactment as [section 6701 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s6701) and this subchapter by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304. Section 5(a) of the Act was classified to section 874(a) of former Title 40 prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
