---
title: "§ 3311. Reporting requirements"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–8, § 12](/us/pl/96/8/s12), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 20](/us/stat/93/20); [Pub. L. 98–164, title X, § 1011(a)(3)](/us/pl/98/164/tX/s1011/a/3), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1061](/us/stat/97/1061).)"
---
# § 3311. Reporting requirements

##### § 3311. Reporting requirements

(a) Texts of agreements to be transmitted to Congress; secret agreements to be transmitted to Senate Foreign Relations Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee The Secretary of State shall transmit to the Congress the text of any agreement to which the Institute is a party. However, any such agreement the immediate public disclosure of which would, in the opinion of the President, be prejudicial to the national security of the United States shall not be so transmitted to the Congress but shall be transmitted to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives under an appropriate injunction of secrecy to be removed only upon due notice from the President.

(b) Agreements For purposes of subsection (a), the term “agreement” includes—

(1) any agreement entered into between the Institute and the governing authorities on Taiwan or the instrumentality established by Taiwan; and

(2) any agreement entered into between the Institute and an agency of the United States Government.

(c) Congressional notification, review, and approval requirements and procedures Agreements and transactions made or to be made by or through the Institute shall be subject to the same congressional notification, review, and approval requirements and procedures as if such agreements and transactions were made by or through the agency of the United States Government on behalf of which the Institute is acting.

*([Pub. L. 96–8, § 12](/us/pl/96/8/s12), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 20](/us/stat/93/20); [Pub. L. 98–164, title X, § 1011(a)(3)](/us/pl/98/164/tX/s1011/a/3), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1061](/us/stat/97/1061).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1983—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 98–164](/us/pl/98/164) struck out subsec. (d) which required the Secretary of State to make semi-annual reports respecting economic relations between the United States and Taiwan.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as of January 1, 1979, see [section 18 of Pub. L. 96–8](/us/pl/96/8/s18), set out as a note under [section 3301 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3301).
