---
title: "§ 3315A. National tests"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3315A"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3315A"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–377, title I, § 108(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/377/tI/s108/a/1), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4118](/us/stat/124/4118); amended [Pub. L. 115–48, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/48/tI/s108/b), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 978](/us/stat/131/978).)"
---
# § 3315A. National tests

##### § 3315A. National tests

(a) In General.— An individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter shall also be entitled to educational assistance for the following:

(1) A national test for admission to an institution of higher learning as described in the last sentence of section 3452(b).

(2) A national test providing an opportunity for course credit at an institution of higher learning as so described.

(3) A national test that evaluates prior learning and knowledge and provides an opportunity for course credit at an institution of higher learning as so described.

(b) Amount.— The amount of educational assistance payable under this chapter for a test described in subsection (a) is the lesser of—

(1) the fee charged for the test; or

(2) the amount of entitlement available to the individual under this chapter at the time of payment for the test under this section.

(c) Charge Against Entitlement.— The number of months of entitlement charged an individual under this chapter for a test described in subsection (a) shall be pro-rated based on the actual amount of the fee charged for the test relative to the rate for 1 month payable—

(1) for the academic year beginning on August 1, 2011, $1,460; or

(2) for an academic year beginning on any subsequent August 1, the amount for the previous academic year beginning on August 1 under this subsection, as increased by the percentage increase equal to the most recent percentage increase determined under section 3015(h).

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–377, title I, § 108(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/377/tI/s108/a/1), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4118](/us/stat/124/4118); amended [Pub. L. 115–48, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/48/tI/s108/b), Aug. 16, 2017, [131 Stat. 978](/us/stat/131/978).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 115–48, § 108(b)(1)](/us/pl/115/48/s108/b/1), added par. (3).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–48, § 108(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/48/s108/b/2), in introductory provisions, substituted “shall be pro-rated based on the actual amount of the fee charged for the test relative to the rate for 1 month payable” for “shall be determined at the rate of one month (rounded to the nearest whole month) for each amount paid that equals”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–48](/us/pl/115/48) applicable to a test taken on or after Aug. 1, 2018, see [section 108(d) of Pub. L. 115–48](/us/pl/115/48/s108/d), set out as a note under [section 3315 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3315).

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 111–377, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/111/377/tI/s108/b), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4119](/us/stat/124/4119), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section] shall take effect on August 1, 2011, and shall apply with respect to national tests taken on or after that date.”
