---
title: "§ 2263a. Aquatic invasive species research"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2263a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2263a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1108](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1108), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3774](/us/stat/132/3774); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title V, § 502](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/tV/s502), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2744](/us/stat/134/2744); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. H, title LXXXI, § 8305(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dH/tLXXXI/s8305/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3778](/us/stat/136/3778).)"
---
# § 2263a. Aquatic invasive species research

##### § 2263a. Aquatic invasive species research

(a) In general As part of the ongoing activities of the Engineer Research and Development Center to address the spread and impacts of aquatic invasive species, the Secretary shall undertake research on the prevention, management, and eradication of aquatic invasive species, including Asian carp, elodea, hydrilla, quagga mussels, and zebra mussels.

(b) Locations In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall work with Corps of Engineers district offices representing diverse geographical regions of the continental United States that are impacted or could be impacted in the future by aquatic invasive species, such as the Atlantic, Pacific, Arctic, and Gulf Coasts, the Great Lakes, and reservoirs operated and maintained by the Secretary.

(c) Report Not later than 180 days after October 23, 2018, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report recommending a plan to address the spread and impacts of aquatic invasive species.

*([Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1108](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1108), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3774](/us/stat/132/3774); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title V, § 502](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/tV/s502), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2744](/us/stat/134/2744); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. H, title LXXXI, § 8305(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dH/tLXXXI/s8305/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3778](/us/stat/136/3778).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018, and also as part of the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) inserted “, hydrilla” after “elodea”.

2020—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 502(1)](/us/pl/116/260/s502/1), substituted “prevention, management,” for “management” and inserted “, elodea, quagga mussels,” after “Asian carp”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 502(2)](/us/pl/116/260/s502/2), inserted “or could be impacted in the future” after “that are impacted” and substituted “Pacific, Arctic, and Gulf Coasts, the Great Lakes, and reservoirs operated and maintained by the Secretary.” for “Pacific, and Gulf coasts and the Great Lakes.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 102 of Pub. L. 115–270](/us/pl/115/270/s102), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
