---
title: "§ 2616. Investigative authority"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2616"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2616"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–3, title I, § 106](/us/pl/103/3/tI/s106), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 15](/us/stat/107/15).)"
---
# § 2616. Investigative authority

##### § 2616. Investigative authority

(a) In general To ensure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, or any regulation or order issued under this subchapter, the Secretary shall have, subject to subsection (c), the investigative authority provided under [section 211(a) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s211/a).

(b) Obligation to keep and preserve records Any employer shall make, keep, and preserve records pertaining to compliance with this subchapter in accordance with [section 211(c) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s211/c) and in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary.

(c) Required submissions generally limited to annual basis The Secretary shall not under the authority of this section require any employer or any plan, fund, or program to submit to the Secretary any books or records more than once during any 12-month period, unless the Secretary has reasonable cause to believe there may exist a violation of this subchapter or any regulation or order issued pursuant to this subchapter, or is investigating a charge pursuant to [section 2617(b) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2617/b).

(d) Subpoena powers For the purposes of any investigation provided for in this section, the Secretary shall have the subpoena authority provided for under [section 209 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s209).

*([Pub. L. 103–3, title I, § 106](/us/pl/103/3/tI/s106), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 15](/us/stat/107/15).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 6 months after Feb. 5, 1993, except that, in the case of collective bargaining agreements in effect on that effective date, section applicable on the earlier of (1) the date of termination of such agreement, or (2) the date that occurs 12 months after Feb. 5, 1993, see [section 405(b) of Pub. L. 103–3](/us/pl/103/3/s405/b), set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2601).
