---
title: "§ 2114a. Eligibility of members of foreign militaries to enroll in the University"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2114a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2114a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 553](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s553), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/138/1894).)"
---
# § 2114a. Eligibility of members of foreign militaries to enroll in the University

##### § 2114a. Eligibility of members of foreign militaries to enroll in the University

(a) Authority.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense may permit an individual who is a member of the military of a foreign country—

(A) to enroll (including as a full-time student) and receive instruction—

(i) as a medical student of the University; or

(ii) in a postdoctoral, postgraduate, or certificate program of the University; and

(B) to participate in training exercises of the University.

(2) Enrollment of an individual under this section—

(A) shall be subject to—

(i) the academic capacity of the University described in [section 2112(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2112/b); and

(ii) an international agreement or qualifying non-binding instrument (as such terms are defined in [section 112b of title 1](/us/usc/t1/s112b)); and

(B) may not decrease the number of members of the uniformed services enrolled in the University; and

(C) may not be given priority over the enrollment of a member of the uniformed services.

(3) The number of individuals simultaneously enrolled under this section may not exceed—

(A) 10, in the case of medical students of the University; and

(B) 40, with regards to all postdoctoral, postgraduate, and certificate programs of the University.

(b) Qualifications; Selection.— In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary may select an individual to enroll under this section—

(1) who was nominated for such enrollment by the medical command of the military of a foreign country; and

(2) pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary regarding—

(A) qualifications for such enrollment that are comparable to the qualifications required of a United States citizen; and

(B) procedures for such selection.

(c) Reimbursement.—

(1) The Secretary shall require the foreign country of an individual enrolled under this section to reimburse the United States for the cost of providing instruction to such individual.

(2) The Secretary shall prescribe rates for such reimbursement that equal or exceed the cost to the United States of providing such instruction to a member of the uniformed services.

(3) The Secretary may waive, in whole or in part, reimbursement with regards to an individual enrolled under this section.

(4) Amounts received by the Secretary under this subsection shall—

(A) be used to defray the costs of providing instruction to an individual enrolled under this section;

(B) be credited to appropriations available for the maintenance and operation of the University; and

(C) remain available for until expended.

(5) The source and the disposition of such amounts shall be specifically identified in records of the University.

(d) Applicability of Regulations and Policies.—

(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) through (4), and to the determination of the Secretary, an individual enrolled under this section shall be subject to the same regulations and policies that apply to a member of the uniformed services enrolled in the University.

(2) The Secretary may prescribe regulations regarding access to classified information by an individual enrolled under this section that differ from the regulations that apply to a member of the uniformed services enrolled in the University.

(3) An individual enrolled under this section shall not be entitled to an appointment in a uniformed service by reason of completing of a program of the University.

(4) [Section 2114 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2114) shall not apply to an individual enrolled under this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 553](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s553), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/138/1894).)*
