---
title: "§ 11144. Records: form; inspection; preservation"
identifier: "USC-T49-S11144"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section11144"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 835](/us/stat/109/835).)"
---
# § 11144. Records: form; inspection; preservation

##### § 11144. Records: form; inspection; preservation

(a) The Board may prescribe the form of records required to be prepared or compiled under this subchapter—

(1) by rail carriers and lessors, including records related to movement of traffic and receipts and expenditures of money; and

(2) by persons furnishing cars to or for a rail carrier providing transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Board under this part to the extent related to those cars or that service.

(b) The Board, or an employee designated by the Board, may on demand and display of proper credentials—

(1) inspect and examine the lands, buildings, and equipment of a rail carrier or lessor; and

(2) inspect and copy any record of—

(A) a rail carrier, lessor, or association;

(B) a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with a rail carrier if the Board considers inspection relevant to that person’s relation to, or transaction with, that rail carrier; and

(C) a person furnishing cars to or for a rail carrier if the Board prescribed the form of that record.

(c) The Board may prescribe the time period during which operating, accounting, and financial records must be preserved by rail carriers, lessors, and persons furnishing cars.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 835](/us/stat/109/835).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 11144, [Pub. L. 95–473](/us/pl/95/473), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1426](/us/stat/92/1426); [Pub. L. 96–296, § 24(c)](/us/pl/96/296/s24/c), July 1, 1980, [94 Stat. 816](/us/stat/94/816), related to form, inspection, and preservation of records, prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a). See sections 11144, 14122, and 15722 of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
