---
title: "§ 18325. NASA launch support and infrastructure modernization program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18325"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18325"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–267, title III, § 305](/us/pl/111/267/tIII/s305), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2817](/us/stat/124/2817).)"
---
# § 18325. NASA launch support and infrastructure modernization program

##### § 18325. NASA launch support and infrastructure modernization program

(a) In general The Administrator shall carry out a program the primary purpose of which is to prepare infrastructure at the Kennedy Space Center that is needed to enable processing and launch of the Space Launch System. Vehicle interfaces and other ground processing and payload integration areas should be simplified to minimize overall costs, enhance safety, and complement the purpose of this section.

(b) Elements The program required by this section shall include—

(1) investments to improve civil and national security operations at the Kennedy Space Center, to enhance the overall capabilities of the Center, and to reduce the long term cost of operations and maintenance;

(2) measures to provide multi-vehicle support, improvements in payload processing, and partnering at the Kennedy Space Center; and

(3) such other measures, including investments to improve launch infrastructure at NASA flight facilities scheduled to launch cargo to the ISS under the commercial orbital transportation services program as the Administrator may consider appropriate.

(c) Report on NASA launch support and infrastructure modernization program

(1) Report required Not later than 120 days after October 11, 2010, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the plan for the implementation of the NASA launch support and infrastructure modernization program.

(2) Elements The report required by this subsection shall include—

(A) a description of the ground infrastructure plan tied to the Space Launch System and potential ground investment activities at other NASA centers related to supporting the development of the Space Launch System;

(B) a description of proposed initiatives intended to be conducted jointly or in cooperation with Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, or other installations or components of the United States Government; and

(C) a description of plans to use funds authorized to be appropriated by this chapter to improve non-NASA facilities, which plans shall include a business plan outlining the nature and scope of investments planned by other parties.

*([Pub. L. 111–267, title III, § 305](/us/pl/111/267/tIII/s305), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2817](/us/stat/124/2817).)*
