---
title: "§ 151. Bonded warehouses for storage and cleansing of imported garbanzo; withdrawals"
identifier: "USC-T19-S151"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section151"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 28, 1916, ch. 180](/us/act/1916-06-28/ch180), [39 Stat. 239](/us/stat/39/239); [Pub. L. 91–271, title III, § 310](/us/pl/91/271/tIII/s310), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 292](/us/stat/84/292).)"
---
# § 151. Bonded warehouses for storage and cleansing of imported garbanzo; withdrawals

##### § 151. Bonded warehouses for storage and cleansing of imported garbanzo; withdrawals

Under such regulations and conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, bonded warehouses may be established in which imported Mexican peas, commonly called garbanzo may be stored, cleaned, repacked or otherwise changed in condition, but not manufactured, and withdrawn for exportation without the payment of duty thereon. The whole or any part of such imported garbanzo, and the waste material and by-products incident to cleaning or otherwise treating said imported garbanzo, may be withdrawn for domestic consumption upon the payment on the quantity so withdrawn of the duty imposed by law on such garbanzo in their condition as imported. The compensation of customs officers and storekeepers for all services in the supervision of such warehouses shall be paid from moneys advanced by the warehouse proprietor to the appropriate customs officer and be carried in a special account and disbursed for such purposes, and all expenses incurred shall be paid by the warehouse proprietor.

*([June 28, 1916, ch. 180](/us/act/1916-06-28/ch180), [39 Stat. 239](/us/stat/39/239); [Pub. L. 91–271, title III, § 310](/us/pl/91/271/tIII/s310), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 292](/us/stat/84/292).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1970—[Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271) substituted reference to the appropriate customs officer for reference to the collector of customs.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271) effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after Oct. 1, 1970, and such other articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption prior to such date, or with respect to which a protest has not been disallowed in whole or in part before Oct. 1, 1970, see [section 203 of Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271/s203), set out as a note under [section 1500 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1500).
