---
title: "§ 4875. Prohibition on acquisition of personal protective equipment and certain other items from non-allied foreign nations"
identifier: "USC-T10-S4875"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4875"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VIII, § 802(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVIII/s802/a/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/135/1812), § 2533e; renumbered § 4875, [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VIII, § 802(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVIII/s802/b/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1813](/us/stat/135/1813).)"
---
# § 4875. Prohibition on acquisition of personal protective equipment and certain other items from non-allied foreign nations

##### § 4875. Prohibition on acquisition of personal protective equipment and certain other items from non-allied foreign nations

(a) In General.— Except as provided in subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense may not procure any covered item from any covered nation.

(b) Applicability.— Subsection (a) shall apply to prime contracts and subcontracts at any tier.

(c) Exceptions.—

(1) In general.— Subsection (a) does not apply under the following circumstances:

(A) If the Secretary of Defense determines that covered materials of satisfactory quality and quantity, in the required form, cannot be procured as and when needed from nations other than covered nations to meet requirements at a reasonable price.

(B) The procurement of a covered item for use outside of the United States.

(C) Purchases for amounts not greater than $150,000.

(2) Limitation.— A proposed procurement in an amount greater than $150,000 may not be divided into several purchases or contracts for lesser amounts in order to qualify for this exception.

(d) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Covered item.— The term “covered item” means an article or item of—

(A) personal protective equipment for use in preventing spread of disease, such as by exposure to infected individuals or contamination or infection by infectious material (including nitrile and vinyl gloves, surgical masks, respirator masks and powered air purifying respirators and required filters, face shields and protective eyewear, surgical and isolation gowns, and head and foot coverings) or clothing, and the materials and components thereof, other than sensors, electronics, or other items added to and not normally associated with such personal protective equipment or clothing; or

(B) sanitizing and disinfecting wipes, testing swabs, gauze, and bandages.

(2) Covered nation.— The term “covered nation” means—

(A) the Democratic People’s Republic of North Korea;

(B) the People’s Republic of China;

(C) the Russian Federation; and

(D) the Islamic Republic of Iran.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VIII, § 802(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVIII/s802/a/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/135/1812), § 2533e; renumbered § 4875, [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VIII, § 802(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVIII/s802/b/1), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1813](/us/stat/135/1813).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) renumbered [section 2533e of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2533e) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81), which renumbered [section 2533e of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2533e) as this section, deemed to have taken effect immediately before [section 1881 of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1881), subsec. (a) of which had repealed chapter 148 of this title, where section 2533c was located. See [section 881(a) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s881/a), set out as a note under [section 4027 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4027).

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VIII, § 802(b)(3)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVIII/s802/b/3), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1814](/us/stat/135/1814), provided that: “The transfer, redesignation, and amendments made by this subsection [renumbering [section 2533e of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2533e) as this section] shall take effect immediately after the amendments made by title XVIII of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 [[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283)] take effect [Jan. 1, 2022].” See note above.

#### References; Savings Provision; Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VIII, § 802(b)(4)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVIII/s802/b/4), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1814](/us/stat/135/1814), provided that: “Sections 1883 through 1885 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ([Public Law 116–283](/us/pl/116/283)) [set out as notes preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001)] shall apply with respect to the transfers, redesignations, and amendments made under this subsection [see Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note above] as if such transfers, redesignations, and amendments were made under title XVIII of such Act.”
