---
title: "§ 551c–1. Limitations on prescribed burns"
identifier: "USC-T16-S551c–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section551c–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–275, § 3](/us/pl/114/275/s3), Dec. 14, 2016, [130 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/130/1405).)"
---
# § 551c–1. Limitations on prescribed burns

##### § 551c–1. Limitations on prescribed burns

(a) In general Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary shall not authorize a prescribed burn on Forest Service land if, for the county or contiguous county in which the land is located, the national fire danger rating system indicates an extreme fire danger level.

(b) Exception The Secretary may authorize a prescribed burn under a condition described in subsection (a) if the Secretary coordinates with the applicable State government and local fire officials.

(c) Report At the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing—

(1) the number and locations of prescribed burns during that fiscal year; and

(2) each prescribed burn during that fiscal year that was authorized by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 114–275, § 3](/us/pl/114/275/s3), Dec. 14, 2016, [130 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/130/1405).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

[Pub. L. 114–275, § 2](/us/pl/114/275/s2), Dec. 14, 2016, [130 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/130/1405), provided that: “In this Act [enacting this section and provisions set out as a note under [section 551 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s551)]: “(1) National fire danger rating system.—The term ‘national fire danger rating system’ means the national system used to provide a measure of fire danger according to a range of low to moderate to high to very high to extreme. “(2) Prescribed burn.—The term ‘prescribed burn’ means a planned fire intentionally ignited. “(3) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.”
