---
title: "§ 2182. Multirater assessment of certain personnel"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2182"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2182"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 214(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s214/a/1), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 43](/us/stat/130/43), § 429; amended [Pub. L. 114–328, div. C, title XXXV, § 3503(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dC/tXXXV/s3503/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/130/2775); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(c)(12)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3531/c/12), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2320](/us/stat/132/2320); renumbered § 2182, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 112(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s112/b), "
---
# § 2182. Multirater assessment of certain personnel

##### § 2182. Multirater assessment of certain personnel

(a) Multirater Assessment of Certain Personnel.—

(1) In general.— Commencing not later than one year after the date of the enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016, the Commandant shall develop and implement a plan to conduct every two years a multirater assessment for each of the following:

(A) Each flag officer of the Coast Guard.

(B) Each member of the Senior Executive Service of the Coast Guard.

(C) Each officer of the Coast Guard nominated for promotion to the grade of flag officer.

(2) Officers.— Each officer of the Coast Guard shall undergo a multirater assessment before promotion to—

(A) the grade of O–4;

(B) the grade of O–5; and

(C) the grade of O–6.

(3) Enlisted members.— Each enlisted member of the Coast Guard shall undergo a multirater assessment before advancement to—

(A) the grade of E–7;

(B) the grade of E–8;

(C) the grade of E–9; and

(D) the grade of E–10.

(4) Selection.— An individual assessed shall not be permitted to select the peers and subordinates who provide opinions for the multirater assessment of such individual.

(5) Post-assessment elements.—

(A) In general.— Following an assessment of an individual pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3), the individual shall be provided appropriate post-assessment counseling and leadership coaching.

(B) Availability of results.— The supervisor of the individual assessed shall be provided with the results of the multirater assessment.

(b) Multirater Assessment Defined.— In this section, the term “multirater assessment” means a review that seeks opinion from members senior to the reviewee and the peers and subordinates of the reviewee.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 214(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s214/a/1), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 43](/us/stat/130/43), § 429; amended [Pub. L. 114–328, div. C, title XXXV, § 3503(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dC/tXXXV/s3503/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/130/2775); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(c)(12)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3531/c/12), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2320](/us/stat/132/2320); renumbered § 2182, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 112(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s112/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4216](/us/stat/132/4216); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, § 11244(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXII/s11244/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4042](/us/stat/136/4042).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 114–120](/us/pl/114/120), which was approved Feb. 8, 2016.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a)(2) to (5). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) added pars. (2) to (5) and struck out former par. (2). Prior to amendment, text of par. (2) read as follows: “Following an assessment of an individual pursuant to paragraph (1), the individual shall be provided appropriate post-assessment counseling and leadership coaching.”

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 429 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s429) as this section.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) substituted “Commandant” for “Commandant of the Coast Guard” in introductory provisions.

2016—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) substituted “Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016” for “Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

[Pub. L. 114–328, div. C, title XXXV, § 3503(e)](/us/pl/114/328/dC/tXXXV/s3503/e), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/130/2775), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section, sections 315, 676a, and 2702 of this title, sections 3104, 4503, and 7510 of Title 46, Shipping, and provisions set out as a note under [section 1151 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1151), Conservation] shall take effect as if included in the enactment of [Public Law 114–120](/us/pl/114/120) [Feb. 8, 2016].”
