---
title: "§ 30511. Service of process"
identifier: "USC-T36-S30511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section30511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1322](/us/stat/112/1322).)"
---
# § 30511. Service of process

##### § 30511. Service of process

The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process, notice, or demand for the corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of the Mayor of the District of Columbia or another office designated by the Mayor. Notice to or service on the agent is notice to or service on the corporation.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1322](/us/stat/112/1322).)*

The words “at all times” and “authorized” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “Designation of the agent shall be filed” are substituted for “The corporation shall file . . . a statement designating the initial and each successor registered agent of the corporation and the initial and each successor registered office of the corporation immediately following any such designation” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “office of Mayor of the District of Columbia” are substituted for “Commissioners of the District of Columbia” in [section 8 of the Act of July 14, 1960](/us/act/1960-07-14/s8) ([Public Law 86–653](/us/pl/86/653), [74 Stat. 517](/us/stat/74/517)), because under section 401 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1967 (5 App. U.S.C.), the functions of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia were transferred to the Commissioner of the District of Columbia, and under sections 421 and 711 of the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act ([Public Law 93–198](/us/pl/93/198), [87 Stat. 789](/us/stat/87/789), 818), the office of Commissioner of the District of Columbia was abolished and replaced by the office of Mayor of the District of Columbia. The words “Notice to or service on the agent is notice to or service on the corporation” are substituted for “service of such process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon the corporation may be served upon such agent” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30511 | 36:948 (1st sentence 15th–last words, 2d, last sentences). | July 14, 1960, Pub. L. 86–653, § 8 (1st sentence 15th–last words, 2d, last sentences), 74 Stat. 517. |
