---
title: "§ 14501. Application"
identifier: "USC-T46-S14501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section14501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(3)](/us/pl/99/509/tV/s5101/3), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/100/1923); [Pub. L. 111–281, title III, § 303(g)](/us/pl/111/281/tIII/s303/g), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2925](/us/stat/124/2925).)"
---
# § 14501. Application

##### § 14501. Application

(1) A vessel not measured under chapter 143 of this title if the application of an international agreement or other law of the United States to the vessel depends on the vessel’s tonnage.

(2) A vessel measured under chapter 143 of this title if the owner requests that the vessel also be measured under this chapter as provided in [section 14305 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14305).

*([Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(3)](/us/pl/99/509/tV/s5101/3), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/100/1923); [Pub. L. 111–281, title III, § 303(g)](/us/pl/111/281/tIII/s303/g), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2925](/us/stat/124/2925).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

*Revised section 14501*

Source: Section (U.S. Code) 46 App. U.S.C. 71.

Section 14501 delineates the vessels that must be measured under this chapter, i.e. under the regulatory tonnage measurement system. Section 14501(1) states that a vessel must be measured under this chapter if the vessel has not been measured under the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, and if the vessel is to be documented as a vessel of the United States under chapter 121 of this subtitle, or if the application of a United States law depends on the vessels tonnage. Section 14501(2) states that a vessel must be measured under the regulatory measurement system if the owner requests.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 303(g)(1)](/us/pl/111/281/s303/g/1), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “a vessel not measured under chapter 143 of this title if—

“(A) the vessel is to be documented under chapter 121 of this title; or

“(B) the application of a law of the United States to the vessel depends on the vessel’s tonnage.”

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 303(g)(2)](/us/pl/111/281/s303/g/2), substituted “A vessel” for “a vessel”.
