---
title: "§ 1665c. Comprehensive behavioral health prevention and treatment program"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1665c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1665c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s704), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1665c. Comprehensive behavioral health prevention and treatment program

##### § 1665c. Comprehensive behavioral health prevention and treatment program

(a) Establishment

(1) In general The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall provide a program of comprehensive behavioral health, prevention, treatment, and aftercare, which may include, if feasible and appropriate, systems of care, and shall include—

(A) prevention, through educational intervention, in Indian communities;

(B) acute detoxification, psychiatric hospitalization, residential, and intensive outpatient treatment;

(C) community-based rehabilitation and aftercare;

(D) community education and involvement, including extensive training of health care, educational, and community-based personnel;

(E) specialized residential treatment programs for high-risk populations, including pregnant and postpartum women and their children; and

(F) diagnostic services.

(2) Target populations The target population of such programs shall be members of Indian tribes. Efforts to train and educate key members of the Indian community shall also target employees of health, education, judicial, law enforcement, legal, and social service programs.

(b) Contract health services

(1) In general The Secretary, acting through the Service, may enter into contracts with public or private providers of behavioral health treatment services for the purpose of carrying out the program required under subsection (a).

(2) Provision of assistance In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall provide assistance to Indian tribes and tribal organizations to develop criteria for the certification of behavioral health service providers and accreditation of service facilities which meet minimum standards for such services and facilities.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s704), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 704 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s704) is based on section 181 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1665c, [Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s704), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 702(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s702/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4574](/us/stat/106/4574), provided for Indian Health Service program of alcohol and substance abuse detoxification and rehabilitation for Indian youth, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148).
