---
title: "§ 3353. International military education and training cooperation with Taiwan"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3353"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3353"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5504](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5504), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3298](/us/stat/136/3298).)"
---
# § 3353. International military education and training cooperation with Taiwan

##### § 3353. International military education and training cooperation with Taiwan

(a) In general The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense shall establish or expand a comprehensive training program with Taiwan designed to—

(1) enhance interoperability and capabilities for joint operations between the United States and Taiwan;

(2) enhance rapport and deepen partnership between the militaries of the United States and Taiwan, and foster understanding of the United States among individuals in Taiwan;

(3) improve Taiwan’s defense capabilities; and

(4) train future leaders of Taiwan, promote professional military education, civilian control of the military, and protection of human rights.

(b) Elements The training program required by subsection (a) should prioritize relevant and realistic training, including as necessary joint United States-Taiwan contingency tabletop exercises, war games, full-scale military exercises, and an enduring rotational United States military presence that assists Taiwan in maintaining force readiness and utilizing United States defense articles and services transferred from the United States to Taiwan.

(c) Authorization of participation of Taiwan in the International Military Education and Training program The Secretary of State is authorized to provide training and education to relevant entities in Taiwan through the International Military Education and Training program authorized under chapter 5 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 ([22 U.S.C. 2347](/us/usc/t22/s2347) et seq).11 So in original. Probably should be “seq.).”

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5504](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5504), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3298](/us/stat/136/3298).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in subsec. (c), is [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424). Chapter 5 of part II of the Act is classified generally to part V (§ 2347 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 32 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.
