---
title: "§ 44929. Donation of screening equipment to protect the United States"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44929"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44929"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1955(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1955/a/1), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3595](/us/stat/132/3595).)"
---
# § 44929. Donation of screening equipment to protect the United States

##### § 44929. Donation of screening equipment to protect the United States

(a) In General.— Subject to subsection (b), the Administrator is authorized to donate security screening equipment to a foreign last point of departure airport operator if such equipment can be reasonably expected to mitigate a specific vulnerability to the security of the United States or United States citizens.

(b) Conditions.— Before donating any security screening equipment to a foreign last point of departure airport operator the Administrator shall—

(1) ensure that the screening equipment has been restored to commercially available settings;

(2) ensure that no TSA-specific security standards or algorithms exist on the screening equipment; and

(3) verify that the appropriate officials have an adequate system—

(A) to properly maintain and operate the screening equipment; and

(B) to document and track any removal or disposal of the screening equipment to ensure the screening equipment does not come into the possession of terrorists or otherwise pose a risk to security.

(c) Reports.— Not later than 30 days before any donation of security screening equipment under subsection (a), the Administrator shall provide to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a detailed written explanation of the following:

(1) The specific vulnerability to the United States or United States citizens that will be mitigated by such donation.

(2) An explanation as to why the recipient of such donation is unable or unwilling to purchase security screening equipment to mitigate such vulnerability.

(3) An evacuation plan for sensitive technologies in case of emergency or instability in the country to which such donation is being made.

(4) How the Administrator will ensure the security screening equipment that is being donated is used and maintained over the course of its life by the recipient.

(5) The total dollar value of such donation.

(6) How the appropriate officials will document and track any removal or disposal of the screening equipment by the recipient to ensure the screening equipment does not come into the possession of terrorists or otherwise pose a risk to security.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1955(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1955/a/1), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3595](/us/stat/132/3595).)*
