---
title: "§ 356. Allowance of undisputed claims of restricted allottees of Five Civilized Tribes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S356"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section356"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Feb. 14, 1920, ch. 75, § 18](/us/act/1920-02-14/ch75/s18), [41 Stat. 426](/us/stat/41/426).)"
---
# § 356. Allowance of undisputed claims of restricted allottees of Five Civilized Tribes

##### § 356. Allowance of undisputed claims of restricted allottees of Five Civilized Tribes

No undisputed claims to be paid from individual moneys of restricted allottees, or their heirs, or uncontested agricultural and mineral leases (excluding oil and gas leases) made by individual restricted Indian allottees, or their heirs, shall be forwarded to the Secretary of the Interior for approval, but all such undisputed claims or uncontested leases (except oil and gas leases) shall be paid, approved, rejected, or disapproved by the Superintendent for the Five Civilized Tribes of Oklahoma: *Provided, however*, That any party aggrieved by any decision or order of the Superintendent for the Five Civilized Tribes of Oklahoma may appeal from the same to the Secretary of the Interior within thirty days from the date of said decision or order.

*([Feb. 14, 1920, ch. 75, § 18](/us/act/1920-02-14/ch75/s18), [41 Stat. 426](/us/stat/41/426).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The clause “heretofore required to be approved under existing law by the Secretary of the Interior” after the words “but all such undisputed claims or uncontested leases (except oil and gas leases)” omitted from text as superfluous.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
