---
title: "§ 8547. Students at institutions of higher education: admission"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8547"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8547"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title X, § 1073(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/484/dA/tX/s1073/a/2), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2510](/us/stat/106/2510), § 7047; renumbered § 8547, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/c/1), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)"
---
# § 8547. Students at institutions of higher education: admission

##### § 8547. Students at institutions of higher education: admission

(a) Admission Pursuant to Reciprocal Agreement.— The Secretary of the Navy may enter into an agreement with an accredited institution of higher education to permit a student described in subsection (b) enrolled at that institution to receive instruction at the Naval Postgraduate School on a tuition-free basis. In exchange for the admission of the student, the institution of higher education shall be required to permit an officer of the armed forces to attend on a tuition-free basis courses offered by that institution corresponding in length to the instruction provided to the student at the Naval Postgraduate School.

(b) Eligible Students.— A student enrolled at an institution of higher education that is party to an agreement under subsection (a) may be admitted to the Naval Postgraduate School pursuant to that agreement if—

(1) the student is a citizen of the United States or lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States; and

(2) the Secretary of the Navy determines that the student has a demonstrated ability in a field of study designated by the Secretary as related to naval warfare and national security.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title X, § 1073(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/484/dA/tX/s1073/a/2), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2510](/us/stat/106/2510), § 7047; renumbered § 8547, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/c/1), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8547 was renumbered [section 9217 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9217).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 7047 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7047) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
