---
title: "§ 633. Potential liability on foreign accounts"
identifier: "USC-T12-S633"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section633"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 25C](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s25C), as added [Pub. L. 103–325, title III, § 326(a)](/us/pl/103/325/tIII/s326/a), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2229](/us/stat/108/2229).)"
---
# § 633. Potential liability on foreign accounts

##### § 633. Potential liability on foreign accounts

(a) Exceptions from repayment requirement A member bank shall not be required to repay any deposit made at a foreign branch of the bank if the branch cannot repay the deposit due to—

unless the member bank has expressly agreed in writing to repay the deposit under those circumstances.

(1) an act of war, insurrection, or civil strife; or

(2) an action by a foreign government or instrumentality (whether de jure or de facto) in the country in which the branch is located;

(b) Regulations The Board and the Comptroller of the Currency may jointly prescribe such regulations as they deem necessary to implement this section.

*([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 25C](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s25C), as added [Pub. L. 103–325, title III, § 326(a)](/us/pl/103/325/tIII/s326/a), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2229](/us/stat/108/2229).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as section 25C of the Federal Reserve Act, and not as part of section 25A of that Act which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Existing Claims Not Affected

[Pub. L. 103–325, title III, § 326(c)](/us/pl/103/325/tIII/s326/c), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2229](/us/stat/108/2229), provided that: “Section 25C of the Federal Reserve Act [this section] (as added by subsection (a)) shall not be applied retroactively and shall not be construed to affect or apply to any claim or cause of action addressed by that section arising from events or circumstances that occurred before the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 23, 1994].”
