---
title: "§ 154302. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T36-S154302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section154302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1434](/us/stat/112/1434).)"
---
# § 154302. Purposes

##### § 154302. Purposes

(1) to encourage, promote, and maintain comradeship among individuals who are or have been in the active service of the United States Navy, the United States Marine Corps, or the United States Coast Guard;

(2) to revere, honor, and perpetuate the memory of individuals described in paragraph (1) of this section who have departed this life;

(3) to promote and encourage further public interest in the United States Navy, the United States Marine Corps, and the United States Coast Guard, and the history of those organizations;

(4) to uphold the spirit and ideals of the United States Navy, the United States Marine Corps, and the United States Coast Guard;

(5) to promote the ideals of American freedom and democracy and to fit its members for the duties of citizenship and to encourage them to serve as ably as citizens as they have served the Nation under arms; and

(6) to maintain true allegiance to American institutions.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1434](/us/stat/112/1434).)*

In this section, the word “individuals” is substituted for “persons” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

In clause (1), the words “further” and “those” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (2), the words “described in clause (1) of this section” are substituted for “those . . . who have been such members” for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 154302 | 36:140a. | June 6, 1940, ch. 239, § 2, 54 Stat. 232. |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
