---
title: "§ 2736c. Professional development opportunities and tools"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2736c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2736c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIV, § 5405](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIV/s5405), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2373](/us/stat/135/2373).)"
---
# § 2736c. Professional development opportunities and tools

##### § 2736c. Professional development opportunities and tools

(a) Expand provision of professional development and career advancement opportunities

(1) In general The Secretary is authorized to expand professional development opportunities that support the mission needs of the Department, such as—

(A) academic programs;

(B) private-public exchanges; and

(C) detail assignments to relevant positions in—

(i) private or international organizations;

(ii) State, local, and Tribal governments;

(iii) other branches of the Federal Government; or

(iv) professional schools of international affairs.

(2) Training for senior positions

(A) In general The Secretary shall offer, or sponsor members of the workforce to participate in, a Senior Executive Service candidate development program or other program that trains members on the skills required for appointment to senior positions in the Department.

(B) Requirements In determining which members of the workforce are granted professional development or career advancement opportunities under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall—

(i) ensure any program offered or sponsored by the Department under such subparagraph comports with the requirements of subpart C of part 412 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto, including merit staffing and assessment requirements;

(ii) consider the number of expected vacancies in senior positions as a factor in determining the number of candidates to select for such programs;

(iii) understand how participation in any program offered or sponsored by the Department under such subparagraph differs by gender, race, national origin, disability status, or other demographic categories; and

(iv) actively encourage participation from a range of demographic categories, especially from categories with consistently low participation.

*([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIV, § 5405](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIV/s5405), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2373](/us/stat/135/2373).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary” and “Department” as used in this section, see [section 5002 of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s5002), set out as a note under [section 263c of this title](/us/usc/t22/s263c).
