---
title: "§ 1322b. Aggregate limit on benefits guaranteed; criteria applicable"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1322b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1322b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–406, title IV, § 4022B](/us/pl/93/406/tIV/s4022B), as added [Pub. L. 96–364, title I, § 102](/us/pl/96/364/tI/s102), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1215](/us/stat/94/1215).)"
---
# § 1322b. Aggregate limit on benefits guaranteed; criteria applicable

##### § 1322b. Aggregate limit on benefits guaranteed; criteria applicable

(a) Notwithstanding sections 1322 and 1322a of this title, no person shall receive from the corporation pursuant to a guarantee by the corporation of basic benefits with respect to a participant under all multiemployer and single employer plans an amount, or amounts, with an actuarial value which exceeds the actuarial value of a monthly benefit in the form of a life annuity commencing at age 65 equal to the amount determined under [section 1322(b)(3)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1322/b/3/B) as of the date of the last plan termination.

(b) For purposes of this section—

(1) the receipt of benefits under a multiemployer plan receiving financial assistance from the corporation shall be considered the receipt of amounts from the corporation pursuant to a guarantee by the corporation of basic benefits except to the extent provided in regulations prescribed by the corporation, and

(2) the date on which a multiemployer plan, whether or not terminated, begins receiving financial assistance from the corporation shall be considered a date of plan termination.

*([Pub. L. 93–406, title IV, § 4022B](/us/pl/93/406/tIV/s4022B), as added [Pub. L. 96–364, title I, § 102](/us/pl/96/364/tI/s102), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1215](/us/stat/94/1215).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Sept. 26, 1980, except as specifically provided, see [section 1461(e) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1461/e).
