---
title: "§ 6416. Equal access to United States missions abroad for conducting religious activities"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6416"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6416"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–292, title I, § 107](/us/pl/105/292/tI/s107), Oct. 27, 1998, [112 Stat. 2796](/us/stat/112/2796).)"
---
# § 6416. Equal access to United States missions abroad for conducting religious activities

##### § 6416. Equal access to United States missions abroad for conducting religious activities

(a) In general Subject to this section, the Secretary of State shall permit, on terms no less favorable than that accorded other nongovernmental activities unrelated to the conduct of the diplomatic mission, access to the premises of any United States diplomatic mission or consular post by any United States citizen seeking to conduct an activity for religious purposes.

(b) Timing and location The Secretary of State shall make reasonable accommodations with respect to the timing and location of such access in light of—

(1) the number of United States citizens requesting the access (including any particular religious concerns regarding the time of day, date, or physical setting for services);

(2) conflicts with official activities and other nonofficial United States citizen requests;

(3) the availability of openly conducted, organized religious services outside the premises of the mission or post;

(4) availability of space and resources; and

(5) necessary security precautions.

(c) Discretionary access for foreign nationals The Secretary of State may permit access to the premises of a United States diplomatic mission or consular post to foreign nationals for the purpose of attending or participating in religious activities conducted pursuant to this section.

*([Pub. L. 105–292, title I, § 107](/us/pl/105/292/tI/s107), Oct. 27, 1998, [112 Stat. 2796](/us/stat/112/2796).)*
