---
title: "§ 1395b–9. Provisions relating to administration"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1395b–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1395b–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVIII, § 1808, as added and amended [Pub. L. 108–173, title IX](/us/pl/108/173/tIX), §§ 900(a), (b), 923(a), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2369](/us/stat/117/2369), 2393; [Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title IV, § 4010](/us/pl/114/255/dA/tIV/s4010), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1185](/us/stat/130/1185); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. CC, title I, § 120(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dCC/tI/s120/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2955](/us/stat/134/2955).)"
---
# § 1395b–9. Provisions relating to administration

##### § 1395b–9. Provisions relating to administration

(a) Coordinated administration of medicare prescription drug and Medicare Advantage programs

(1) In general There is within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services a center to carry out the duties described in paragraph (3).

(2) Director Such center shall be headed by a director who shall report directly to the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.

(3) Duties The duties described in this paragraph are the following:

(A) The administration of parts C and D.

(B) The provision of notice and information under [section 1395b–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395b–2).

(C) Such other duties as the Secretary may specify.

(4) Deadline The Secretary shall ensure that the center is carrying out the duties described in paragraph (3) by not later than January 1, 2008.

(b) Employment of management staff

(1) In general The Secretary may employ, within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, such individuals as management staff as the Secretary determines to be appropriate. With respect to the administration of parts C and D, such individuals shall include individuals with private sector expertise in negotiations with health benefits plans.

(2) Eligibility To be eligible for employment under paragraph (1) an individual shall be required to have demonstrated, by their education and experience (either in the public or private sector), superior expertise in at least one of the following areas:

(A) The review, negotiation, and administration of health care contracts.

(B) The design of health care benefit plans.

(C) Actuarial sciences.

(D) Compliance with health plan contracts.

(E) Consumer education and decision making.

(F) Any other area specified by the Secretary that requires specialized management or other expertise.

(3) Rates of payment

(A) Performance-related pay Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall establish the rate of pay for an individual employed under paragraph (1). Such rate shall take into account expertise, experience, and performance.

(B) Limitation In no case may the rate of compensation determined under subparagraph (A) exceed the highest rate of basic pay for the Senior Executive Service under [section 5382(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5382/b).

(c) Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman

(1) In general The Secretary shall appoint within the Department of Health and Human Services a Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman who shall have expertise and experience in the fields of health care and education of (and assistance to) individuals entitled to benefits under this subchapter.

(2) Duties The Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman shall—

The Ombudsman shall not serve as an advocate for any increases in payments or new coverage of services, but may identify issues and problems in payment or coverage policies.

(A) receive complaints, grievances, and requests for information submitted by individuals entitled to benefits under part A or enrolled under part B, or both, with respect to any aspect of the medicare program;

(B) provide assistance with respect to complaints, grievances, and requests referred to in subparagraph (A), including—

(i) assistance in collecting relevant information for such individuals, to seek an appeal of a decision or determination made by a fiscal intermediary, carrier, MA organization, or the Secretary;

(ii) assistance to such individuals with any problems arising from disenrollment from an MA plan under part C; and

(iii) assistance to such individuals in presenting information under [section 1395r(i)(4)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395r/i/4/C) (relating to income-related premium adjustment; 11 So in original. A closing parenthesis probably should precede the semicolon. and

(C) submit annual reports to Congress and the Secretary that describe the activities of the Office and that include such recommendations for improvement in the administration of this subchapter as the Ombudsman determines appropriate.

(3) Working with health insurance counseling programs To the extent possible, the Ombudsman shall work with health insurance counseling programs (receiving funding under [section 1395b–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395b–4)) to facilitate the provision of information to individuals entitled to benefits under part A or enrolled under part B, or both regarding MA plans and changes to those plans. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude further collaboration between the Ombudsman and such programs.

(d) Pharmaceutical and technology ombudsman

(1) In general Not later than 12 months after December 13, 2016, the Secretary shall provide for a pharmaceutical and technology ombudsman within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services who shall receive and respond to complaints, grievances, and requests that—

(A) are from entities that manufacture pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, or diagnostic products that are covered or for which coverage is being sought under this subchapter; and

(B) are with respect to coverage, coding, or payment under this subchapter for such products.

(2) Application The second sentence of subsection (c)(2) shall apply to the ombudsman under subparagraph (A) in the same manner as such sentence applies to the Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman under subsection (c).

(e) Funding for implementation of beneficiary enrollment simplification For purposes of carrying out the provisions of and the amendments made by section 120 of division CC of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, the Secretary shall provide for the transfer, from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund under [section 1395i of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395i) and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund under [section 1395t of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395t) (in such proportion as the Secretary determines appropriate), to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Program Management Account, of $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030, to remain available until expended.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVIII, § 1808, as added and amended [Pub. L. 108–173, title IX](/us/pl/108/173/tIX), §§ 900(a), (b), 923(a), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2369](/us/stat/117/2369), 2393; [Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title IV, § 4010](/us/pl/114/255/dA/tIV/s4010), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1185](/us/stat/130/1185); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. CC, title I, § 120(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dCC/tI/s120/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2955](/us/stat/134/2955).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 120 of division CC of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, referred to in subsec. (e), is [section 120 of div. CC of Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260/dCC/s120), which amended this section and sections 1395i–2a, 1395p, 1395q, and 1395r of this title.

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) added subsec. (e).

2016—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 114–255](/us/pl/114/255) added subsec. (d).

2003—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–173, § 900(b)](/us/pl/108/173/s900/b), added subsec. (b).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–173, § 923(a)](/us/pl/108/173/s923/a), added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Deadline for Appointment

[Pub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 923(b)](/us/pl/108/173/tIX/s923/b), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2394](/us/stat/117/2394), provided that: “By not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 8, 2003], the Secretary [of Health and Human Services] shall appoint the Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman under section 1808(c) of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1395b–9(c)](/us/usc/t42/s1395b–9/c)], as added by subsection (a).”
