---
title: "§ 2316. Actions to increase civilian expertise"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2316"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2316"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1416](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1416), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2721](/us/stat/110/2721).)"
---
# § 2316. Actions to increase civilian expertise

##### § 2316. Actions to increase civilian expertise

(a) to (c) Omitted

(d) Civilian expertise The President shall take reasonable measures to reduce the reliance of civilian law enforcement officials on Department of Defense resources to counter the threat posed by the use or potential use of biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction within the United States. The measures shall include—

(1) actions to increase civilian law enforcement expertise to counter such a threat; and

(2) actions to improve coordination between civilian law enforcement officials and other civilian sources of expertise, within and outside the Federal Government, to counter such a threat.

(e) Reports The President shall submit to Congress the following reports:

(1) Not later than 90 days after September 23, 1996, a report describing the respective policy functions and operational roles of Federal agencies in countering the threat posed by the use or potential use of biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction within the United States.

(2) Not later than one year after September 23, 1996, a report describing—

(A) the actions planned to be taken to carry out subsection (d); and

(B) the costs of such actions.

(3) Not later than three years after September 23, 1996, a report updating the information provided in the reports submitted pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), including the measures taken pursuant to subsection (d).

*([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1416](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1416), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2721](/us/stat/110/2721).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of subsecs. (d) and (e) of [section 1416 of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s1416). Subsecs. (a) to (c) of section 1416 enacted section 382 (now 282) of Title 10, Armed Forces, and sections 175a and 2332d of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and amended [section 372 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s372).
