---
title: "§ 3486. Annual report"
identifier: "USC-T20-S3486"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section3486"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–88, title IV, § 426](/us/pl/96/88/tIV/s426), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 688](/us/stat/93/688).)"
---
# § 3486. Annual report

##### § 3486. Annual report

(a) Contents The Secretary shall, as soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, make a single, comprehensive report to the President for transmission to the Congress on the activities of the Department during such fiscal year. The report shall include a statement of goals, priorities, and plans for the Department together with an assessment of the progress made toward—

accompanied where necessary by recommendations for proposed legislation for the achievement of such objectives.

(1) the attainment of such goals, priorities, and plans;

(2) the more effective and efficient management of the Department and the coordination of its functions; and

(3) the reduction of excessive or burdensome regulation and of unnecessary duplication and fragmentation in Federal education programs,

(b) Estimate on non-Federal personnel employed The report required by subsection (a) shall also include an estimate of the extent of the non-Federal personnel employed pursuant to contracts entered into by the Department under [section 3475 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3475) or under any other authority (including any subcontract thereunder), the number of such contracts and subcontracts pursuant to which non-Federal personnel are employed, and the total cost of those contracts and subcontracts.

*([Pub. L. 96–88, title IV, § 426](/us/pl/96/88/tIV/s426), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 688](/us/stat/93/688).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (a) of this section relating to transmission of report to Congress, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and page 80 of House Document No. 103–7.
