---
title: "§ 244. Construction of log buildings; limitation on cost"
identifier: "USC-T16-S244"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section244"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Apr. 25, 1947, ch. 41, § 4](/us/act/1947-04-25/ch41/s4), [61 Stat. 54](/us/stat/61/54); [June 10, 1948, ch. 437, § 1](/us/act/1948-06-10/ch437/s1), [62 Stat. 352](/us/stat/62/352); [Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 610](/us/pl/95/625/tVI/s610), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3521](/us/stat/92/3521).)"
---
# § 244. Construction of log buildings; limitation on cost

##### § 244. Construction of log buildings; limitation on cost

The Secretary of the Interior is further authorized to obtain by purchase or condemnation proceedings, as part of said Theodore Roosevelt National Park, lots 6 and 7, section 33, township 144 north, range 102 west; southeast quarter of southeast quarter, section 32, township 144 north, range 102 west; lots 4 and 5, section 4, township 143, range 102 west; and those parts of lot 1 and the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter, section 5, township 143 north, range 102 west, that lie north and east of a line running diagonally from the northwest corner of said lot 1 to the southeast corner of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of said section 5, and to reconstruct thereon the log ranch house thirty by sixty feet, the log blacksmith shop sixteen by twenty feet, one log stable sixteen by twenty feet, one log stable twenty by thirty feet, log dog house, three log rectangular corrals, and one log circular corral, as they existed at the time the premises were occupied by Theodore Roosevelt: *Provided*, That the total cost of such land and buildings shall not exceed $40,000.

*([Apr. 25, 1947, ch. 41, § 4](/us/act/1947-04-25/ch41/s4), [61 Stat. 54](/us/stat/61/54); [June 10, 1948, ch. 437, § 1](/us/act/1948-06-10/ch437/s1), [62 Stat. 352](/us/stat/62/352); [Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 610](/us/pl/95/625/tVI/s610), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3521](/us/stat/92/3521).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1948—Act June 10, 1948, corrected the land description of Theodore Roosevelt’s Elkhorn Ranch.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Theodore Roosevelt National Memorial Park redesignated Theodore Roosevelt National Park, pursuant to [Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 610](/us/pl/95/625/tVI/s610), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3521](/us/stat/92/3521), which is classified to [section 241g of this title](/us/usc/t16/s241g).
