---
title: "§ 1906. Disposal of surplus property"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1003](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1003), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 357](/us/stat/117/357); [Pub. L. 115–31, div. I, title I, § 1001(a)](/us/pl/115/31/dI/tI/s1001/a), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 578](/us/stat/131/578).)"
---
# § 1906. Disposal of surplus property

##### § 1906. Disposal of surplus property

(a) In general Within the limits of available appropriations, the Capitol Police may dispose of surplus or obsolete property of the Capitol Police, and property which is in the possession of the Capitol Police because it has been disposed, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed, by interagency transfer, donation, sale, trade-in, or other appropriate method.

(b) Amounts received Any amounts received by the Capitol Police from the disposition of property under subsection (a) shall be credited to the account established for the general expenses of the Capitol Police, and shall be available to carry out the purposes of such account during the fiscal year in which the amounts are received and the following fiscal year.

(c) Effective date This section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 and each fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1003](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1003), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 357](/us/stat/117/357); [Pub. L. 115–31, div. I, title I, § 1001(a)](/us/pl/115/31/dI/tI/s1001/a), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 578](/us/stat/131/578).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003, which is div. H of [Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7).

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–31](/us/pl/115/31) substituted “surplus or obsolete property of the Capitol Police, and property which is in the possession of the Capitol Police because it has been disposed, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed,” for “surplus or obsolete property of the Capitol Police”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–31, div. I, title I, § 1001(c)](/us/pl/115/31/dI/tI/s1001/c), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 578](/us/stat/131/578), provided that: “This section [enacting [section 1982 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1982) and amending this section] and the amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2017 and each succeeding fiscal year.”
