---
title: "§ 22504. Powers"
identifier: "USC-T36-S22504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section22504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1305](/us/stat/112/1305).)"
---
# § 22504. Powers

##### § 22504. Powers

(1) adopt a constitution, bylaws, and regulations;

(2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

(3) adopt emblems and badges;

(4) establish and maintain offices to conduct its activities;

(5) establish State, territorial, and local subdivisions;

(6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation, subject to [section 22506(b) of this title](/us/usc/t36/s22506/b);

(7) publish a magazine and other publications;

(8) sue and be sued; and

(9) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out its purposes.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1305](/us/stat/112/1305).)*

In this section, the text of 36:99 is omitted as executed and obsolete.

In clause (1), the words “to carry out its purposes, not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or of any State” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (2), the words “at pleasure” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (3), the words “adopt emblems and badges” are substituted for “to use in carrying out the purposes of the corporation such emblems and badges as it may adopt” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

In clause (4), the word “activities” is substituted for “business” for consistency in the revised title.

Clause (6) is substituted for “receive, hold, own, use, and dispose of such real estate and personal property as shall be necessary for its corporate purposes” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “subject to [section 22506(b) of this title](/us/usc/t36/s22506/b)” are added to alert the reader to the restriction in that section.

In clause (8), the words “in courts of law and equity” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (9), the word “things” is omitted as included in “act”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 22504 | 36:95 (less words between colon and 1st comma). | Feb. 24, 1925, ch. 303, §§ 5 (less words between colon and 1st comma), 9, 43 Stat. 967, 968. |
|  | 36:99. |  |
