---
title: "§ 2431. Review of programs"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2431"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2431"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4211](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4211), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–143](/us/stat/100/3207-143); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 241(a)(6)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s241/a/6), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2289](/us/stat/124/2289).)"
---
# § 2431. Review of programs

##### § 2431. Review of programs

(a) Review In the development of the Memorandum of Agreement required by [section 2411 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2411), the Secretary of the Interior, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in cooperation with the Secretary of Education shall review and consider—

to determine their applicability and relevance in carrying out the purposes of this chapter.

(1) Federal programs providing education services or benefits to Indian children,

(2) tribal, State, local, and private educational resources and programs,

(3) Federal programs providing family and social services and benefits for Indian families and children,

(4) Federal programs relating to youth employment, recreation, cultural, and community activities, and

(5) tribal, State, local, and private resources for programs similar to those cited in paragraphs (3) and (4),

(b) Publication The results of the review conducted under subsection (a) shall be provided to each Indian tribe as soon as possible for their consideration and use in the development or modification of a Tribal Action Plan under [section 2412 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2412).

*([Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4211](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4211), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–143](/us/stat/100/3207-143); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 241(a)(6)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s241/a/6), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2289](/us/stat/124/2289).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211) inserted “, the Attorney General,” after “the Secretary of the Interior” in introductory provisions.
