---
title: "§ 1875a. National Science Foundation Nonrecurring Expenses Fund"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1875a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1875a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. B, title III](/us/pl/117/328/dB/tIII), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4551](/us/stat/136/4551).)"
---
# § 1875a. National Science Foundation Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

##### § 1875a. National Science Foundation Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the “National Science Foundation Nonrecurring Expenses Fund” (the Fund). Unobligated balances of expired discretionary funds appropriated for this or any succeeding fiscal year from the General Fund of the Treasury to the National Science Foundation by this or any other Act may be transferred (not later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes for which appropriated) into the Fund. Amounts deposited in the Fund shall be available until expended, and in addition to such other funds as may be available for such purposes, for information and business technology system modernization and facilities infrastructure improvements, including nonrecurring maintenance, necessary for the operation of the Foundation or its funded research facilities, subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget. Amounts in the Fund may be obligated only after the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of the planned use of funds.

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. B, title III](/us/pl/117/328/dB/tIII), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4551](/us/stat/136/4551).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Science Appropriations Act, 2023, and also as part of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2023, and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.
