---
title: "§ 2518. Procedure for interception of wire, oral, or electronic communications"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2518"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2518"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–351, title III, § 802](/us/pl/90/351/tIII/s802), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 218](/us/stat/82/218); amended [Pub. L. 91–358, title II, § 211(b)](/us/pl/91/358/tII/s211/b), July 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 654](/us/stat/84/654); [Pub. L. 95–511, title II, § 201(d)](/us/pl/95/511/tII/s201/d)–(g), Oct. 25, 1978, [92 Stat. 1797](/us/stat/92/1797), 1798; [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1203(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1203/a), (b), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2152](/us/stat/98/2152); [Pub. L. 99–508, ti"
---
# § 2518. Procedure for interception of wire, oral, or electronic communications

##### § 2518. Procedure for interception of wire, oral, or electronic communications

(1) Each application for an order authorizing or approving the interception of a wire, oral, or electronic communication under this chapter shall be made in writing upon oath or affirmation to a judge of competent jurisdiction and shall state the applicant’s authority to make such application. Each application shall include the following information:

(2) The judge may require the applicant to furnish additional testimony or documentary evidence in support of the application.

(3) Upon such application the judge may enter an ex parte order, as requested or as modified, authorizing or approving interception of wire, oral, or electronic communications within the territorial jurisdiction of the court in which the judge is sitting (and outside that jurisdiction but within the United States in the case of a mobile interception device authorized by a Federal court within such jurisdiction), if the judge determines on the basis of the facts submitted by the applicant that—

(4) Each order authorizing or approving the interception of any wire, oral, or electronic communication under this chapter shall specify—

An order authorizing the interception of a wire, oral, or electronic communication under this chapter shall, upon request of the applicant, direct that a provider of wire or electronic communication service, landlord, custodian or other person shall furnish the applicant forthwith all information, facilities, and technical assistance necessary to accomplish the interception unobtrusively and with a minimum of interference with the services that such service provider, landlord, custodian, or person is according the person whose communications are to be intercepted. Any provider of wire or electronic communication service, landlord, custodian or other person furnishing such facilities or technical assistance shall be compensated therefor by the applicant for reasonable expenses incurred in providing such facilities or assistance. Pursuant to section 2522 of this chapter, an order may also be issued to enforce the assistance capability and capacity requirements under the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act.

(5) No order entered under this section may authorize or approve the interception of any wire, oral, or electronic communication for any period longer than is necessary to achieve the objective of the authorization, nor in any event longer than thirty days. Such thirty-day period begins on the earlier of the day on which the investigative or law enforcement officer first begins to conduct an interception under the order or ten days after the order is entered. Extensions of an order may be granted, but only upon application for an extension made in accordance with subsection (1) of this section and the court making the findings required by subsection (3) of this section. The period of extension shall be no longer than the authorizing judge deems necessary to achieve the purposes for which it was granted and in no event for longer than thirty days. Every order and extension thereof shall contain a provision that the authorization to intercept shall be executed as soon as practicable, shall be conducted in such a way as to minimize the interception of communications not otherwise subject to interception under this chapter, and must terminate upon attainment of the authorized objective, or in any event in thirty days. In the event the intercepted communication is in a code or foreign language, and an expert in that foreign language or code is not reasonably available during the interception period, minimization may be accomplished as soon as practicable after such interception. An interception under this chapter may be conducted in whole or in part by Government personnel, or by an individual operating under a contract with the Government, acting under the supervision of an investigative or law enforcement officer authorized to conduct the interception.

(6) Whenever an order authorizing interception is entered pursuant to this chapter, the order may require reports to be made to the judge who issued the order showing what progress has been made toward achievement of the authorized objective and the need for continued interception. Such reports shall be made at such intervals as the judge may require.

(7) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any investigative or law enforcement officer, specially designated by the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, the Associate Attorney General, or by the principal prosecuting attorney of any State or subdivision thereof acting pursuant to a statute of that State, who reasonably determines that—

may intercept such wire, oral, or electronic communication if an application for an order approving the interception is made in accordance with this section within forty-eight hours after the interception has occurred, or begins to occur. In the absence of an order, such interception shall immediately terminate when the communication sought is obtained or when the application for the order is denied, whichever is earlier. In the event such application for approval is denied, or in any other case where the interception is terminated without an order having been issued, the contents of any wire, oral, or electronic communication intercepted shall be treated as having been obtained in violation of this chapter, and an inventory shall be served as provided for in subsection (d) of this section on the person named in the application.

(8)

(9) The contents of any wire, oral, or electronic communication intercepted pursuant to this chapter or evidence derived therefrom shall not be received in evidence or otherwise disclosed in any trial, hearing, or other proceeding in a Federal or State court unless each party, not less than ten days before the trial, hearing, or proceeding, has been furnished with a copy of the court order, and accompanying application, under which the interception was authorized or approved. This ten-day period may be waived by the judge if he finds that it was not possible to furnish the party with the above information ten days before the trial, hearing, or proceeding and that the party will not be prejudiced by the delay in receiving such information.

(10)

(11) The requirements of subsections (1)(b)(ii) and (3)(d) of this section relating to the specification of the facilities from which, or the place where, the communication is to be intercepted do not apply if—

(12) An interception of a communication under an order with respect to which the requirements of subsections (1)(b)(ii) and (3)(d) of this section do not apply by reason of subsection (11)(a) shall not begin until the place where the communication is to be intercepted is ascertained by the person implementing the interception order. A provider of wire or electronic communications service that has received an order as provided for in subsection (11)(b) may move the court to modify or quash the order on the ground that its assistance with respect to the interception cannot be performed in a timely or reasonable fashion. The court, upon notice to the government, shall decide such a motion expeditiously.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–351, title III, § 802](/us/pl/90/351/tIII/s802), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 218](/us/stat/82/218); amended [Pub. L. 91–358, title II, § 211(b)](/us/pl/91/358/tII/s211/b), July 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 654](/us/stat/84/654); [Pub. L. 95–511, title II, § 201(d)](/us/pl/95/511/tII/s201/d)–(g), Oct. 25, 1978, [92 Stat. 1797](/us/stat/92/1797), 1798; [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1203(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1203/a), (b), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2152](/us/stat/98/2152); [Pub. L. 99–508, title I](/us/pl/99/508/tI), §§ 101(c)(1)(A), (8), (e), 106(a)–(d)(3), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1851–1853](/us/stat/100/1851-1853), 1856, 1857; [Pub. L. 103–414, title II, § 201(b)(1)](/us/pl/103/414/tII/s201/b/1), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4290](/us/stat/108/4290); [Pub. L. 105–272, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/105/272/tVI/s604), Oct. 20, 1998, [112 Stat. 2413](/us/stat/112/2413).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, referred to in par. (4), is title I of [Pub. L. 103–414](/us/pl/103/414), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4279](/us/stat/108/4279), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1001 et seq.) of chapter 9 of Title 47, Telecommunications. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1001 of Title 47](/us/usc/t47/s1001) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1998—Par. (11)(b)(ii). [Pub. L. 105–272, § 604(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/272/s604/a/1), substituted “that there is probable cause to believe that the person’s actions could have the effect of thwarting interception from a specified facility;” for “of a purpose, on the part of that person, to thwart interception by changing facilities; and”.

Par. (11)(b)(iii). [Pub. L. 105–272, § 604(a)(2)](/us/pl/105/272/s604/a/2), substituted “such showing has been adequately made; and” for “such purpose has been adequately shown.”

Par. (11)(b)(iv). [Pub. L. 105–272, § 604(a)(3)](/us/pl/105/272/s604/a/3), added cl. (iv).

Par. (12). [Pub. L. 105–272, § 604(b)](/us/pl/105/272/s604/b), substituted “by reason of subsection (11)(a)” for “by reason of subsection (11)”, struck out “the facilities from which, or” after “shall not begin until”, and struck out comma after “the place where”.

1994—Par. (4). [Pub. L. 103–414](/us/pl/103/414) inserted at end of concluding provisions “Pursuant to section 2522 of this chapter, an order may also be issued to enforce the assistance capability and capacity requirements under the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act.”

1986—[Pub. L. 99–508, § 101(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/99/508/s101/c/1/A), substituted “wire, oral, or electronic” for “wire or oral” in section catchline.

Par. (1). [Pub. L. 99–508, § 101(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/99/508/s101/c/1/A), substituted “wire, oral, or electronic” for “wire or oral” in introductory provisions.

Par. (1)(b)(ii). [Pub. L. 99–508, § 106(d)(1)](/us/pl/99/508/s106/d/1), inserted “except as provided in subsection (11),”.

Par. (1)(e). [Pub. L. 99–508, § 101(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/99/508/s101/c/1/A), substituted “wire, oral, or electronic” for “wire or oral”.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 99–508](/us/pl/99/508), §§ 101(c)(1)(A), 106(a), in introductory provisions, substituted “wire, oral, or electronic” for “wire or oral” and inserted “(and outside that jurisdiction but within the United States in the case of a mobile interception device authorized by a Federal court within such jurisdiction)”.

Par. (3)(d). [Pub. L. 99–508](/us/pl/99/508), §§ 101(c)(1)(A), 106(d)(2), inserted “except as provided in subsection (11),” and substituted “wire, oral, or electronic” for “wire or oral”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 99–508](/us/pl/99/508), §§ 101(c)(1)(A), (8), 106(b), substituted “wire, oral, or electronic” for “wire or oral” wherever appearing and, in closing provisions, substituted “provider of wire or electronic communication service” for “communication common carrier” wherever appearing, “such service provider” for “such carrier”, and “for reasonable expenses incurred in providing such facilities or assistance” for “at the prevailing rates”.

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 99–508](/us/pl/99/508), §§ 101(c)(1)(A), 106(c), substituted “wire, oral, or electronic” for “wire or oral” and inserted provisions which related to beginning of thirty-day period, minimization where intercepted communication is in code or foreign language and expert in that code or foreign language is not immediately available, and conduct of interception by Government personnel or by individual operating under Government contract, acting under supervision of investigative or law enforcement officer authorized to conduct interception.

Pars. (7), (8)(a), (d)(3), (9). [Pub. L. 99–508, § 101(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/99/508/s101/c/1/A), substituted “wire, oral, or electronic” for “wire or oral” wherever appearing.

Par. (10)(c). [Pub. L. 99–508, § 101(e)](/us/pl/99/508/s101/e), added subpar. (c).

Pars. (11), (12). [Pub. L. 99–508, § 106(d)(3)](/us/pl/99/508/s106/d/3), added pars. (11) and (12).

1984—Par. (7). [Pub. L. 98–473, § 1203(a)](/us/pl/98/473/s1203/a), inserted “, the Deputy Attorney General, the Associate Attorney General,” after “Attorney General” in provisions preceding subpar. (a).

Par. (7)(a). [Pub. L. 98–473, § 1203(b)](/us/pl/98/473/s1203/b), amended subpar. (a) generally, adding cl. (i) and designated existing provisions as cls. (ii) and (iii).

1978—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 95–511, § 201(d)](/us/pl/95/511/s201/d), inserted “under this chapter” after “communication”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 95–511, § 201(e)](/us/pl/95/511/s201/e), inserted “under this chapter” after “wire or oral communication” wherever appearing.

Par. (9). [Pub. L. 95–511, § 201(e)](/us/pl/95/511/s201/e), substituted “any wire or oral communication intercepted pursuant to this chapter” for “any intercepted wire or oral communication”.

Par. (10). [Pub. L. 95–511, § 201(g)](/us/pl/95/511/s201/g), substituted “any wire or oral communication intercepted pursuant to this chapter,” for “any intercepted wire or oral communication,”.

1970—Par. (4). [Pub. L. 91–358](/us/pl/91/358) inserted the provision that, upon the request of the applicant, an order authorizing the interception of a wire or oral communication direct that a communication common carrier, landlord, custodian, or other person furnish the applicant with all information, facilities, and technical assistance necessary to accomplish the interception unobtrusively and with a minimum of interference with the services provided.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–508](/us/pl/99/508) effective 90 days after Oct. 21, 1986, and, in case of conduct pursuant to court order or extension, applicable only with respect to court orders and extensions made after such date, with special rule for State authorizations of interceptions, see [section 111 of Pub. L. 99–508](/us/pl/99/508/s111), set out as a note under [section 2510 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s2510).

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–511](/us/pl/95/511) effective Oct. 25, 1978, except as specifically provided, see [section 401 of Pub. L. 95–511](/us/pl/95/511/s401), formerly set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1801 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s1801), War and National Defense.

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 91–358](/us/pl/91/358) effective on first day of seventh calendar month which begins after July 29, 1970, see [section 901(a) of Pub. L. 91–358](/us/pl/91/358/s901/a).
