---
title: "§ 8127. Part of Washington Aqueduct for playground purposes"
identifier: "USC-T40-S8127"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section8127"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1208](/us/stat/116/1208).)"
---
# § 8127. Part of Washington Aqueduct for playground purposes

##### § 8127. Part of Washington Aqueduct for playground purposes

(a) Jurisdiction of Mayor.— The Mayor of the District of Columbia has possession, control, and jurisdiction of the land of the Washington Aqueduct adjacent to the Champlain Avenue pumping station and lying outside of the fence around the pumping station as it—

(1) existed on August 31, 1918; and

(2) was transferred by the Chief of Engineers for playground purposes.

(b) Jurisdiction of Secretary of the Army Not Affected.— This section does not affect the superintendence and control of the Secretary of the Army over the Washington Aqueduct and the rights, appurtenances, and fixtures connected with the Aqueduct.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1208](/us/stat/116/1208).)*

In this section, the word “Mayor” is substituted for “Commissioners” [meaning the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia] [subsequently changed to “Commissioner” [meaning the Commissioner of the District of Columbia] because of section 401 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1967 (eff. Nov. 3, 1967, [81 Stat. 951](/us/stat/81/951))] because of section 421 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act ([Public Law 93–198](/us/pl/93/198), [87 Stat. 789](/us/stat/87/789)).

In subsection (a), before clause (1), the word “use” is omitted as included in “possession, control, and jurisdiction”.

In subsection (b), the words “Secretary of the Army” are substituted for “Secretary of War” because of [section 205(a) of the Act of July 26, 1947](/us/act/1947-07-26/s205/a) (ch. 343, [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501)). Section 205(a) was repealed by [section 53 of the Act of August 10, 1956](/us/act/1956-08-10/s53) (ch. 1041, [70A Stat. 676](/us/stat/70A/676)), the first section of which enacted Title 10, United States Code. Sections 3010–3013 of title 10 continued the Department of the Army under the administrative supervision of the Secretary of the Army.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 8127 | 40:100. | Aug. 31, 1918, ch. 164, § 1 (6th par., words before “and over” in last par. under heading “Washington Aqueduct.”), 40 Stat. 951. |
