---
title: "§ 347. Intrastate sales of colored oleomargarine"
identifier: "USC-T21-S347"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section347"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 407](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s407), as added [Mar. 16, 1950, ch. 61, § 3(c)](/us/act/1950-03-16/ch61/s3/c), [64 Stat. 20](/us/stat/64/20).)"
---
# § 347. Intrastate sales of colored oleomargarine

##### § 347. Intrastate sales of colored oleomargarine

(a) Law governing Colored oleomargarine or colored margarine which is sold in the same State or Territory in which it is produced shall be subject in the same manner and to the same extent to the provisions of this chapter as if it had been introduced in interstate commerce.

(b) Labeling and packaging requirements No person shall sell, or offer for sale, colored oleomargarine or colored margarine unless—

The requirements of this subsection shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any of the other requirements of this chapter.

(1) such oleomargarine or margarine is packaged,

(2) the net weight of the contents of any package sold in a retail establishment is one pound or less,

(3) there appears on the label of the package (A) the word “oleomargarine” or “margarine” in type or lettering at least as large as any other type or lettering on such label, and (B) a full and accurate statement of all the ingredients contained in such oleomargarine or margarine, and

(4) each part of the contents of the package is contained in a wrapper which bears the word “oleomargarine” or “margarine” in type or lettering not smaller than 20-point type.

(c) Sales in public eating places No person shall possess in a form ready for serving colored oleomargarine or colored margarine at a public eating place unless a notice that oleomargarine or margarine is served is displayed prominently and conspicuously in such place and in such manner as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual being served in such eating place or is printed or is otherwise set forth on the menu in type or lettering not smaller than that normally used to designate the serving of other food items. No person shall serve colored oleomargarine or colored margarine at a public eating place, whether or not any charge is made therefor, unless (1) each separate serving bears or is accompanied by labeling identifying it as oleomargarine or margarine, or (2) each separate serving thereof is triangular in shape.

(d) Exemption from labeling requirements Colored oleomargarine or colored margarine when served with meals at a public eating place shall at the time of such service be exempt from the labeling requirements of [section 343 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s343) (except paragraphs (a) and (f)) if it complies with the requirements of subsection (b) of this section.

(e) Color content of oleomargarine For the purpose of this section colored oleomargarine or colored margarine is oleomargarine or margarine having a tint or shade containing more than one and six-tenths degrees of yellow, or of yellow and red collectively, but with an excess of yellow over red, measured in terms of Lovibond tintometer scale or its equivalent.

*([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 407](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s407), as added [Mar. 16, 1950, ch. 61, § 3(c)](/us/act/1950-03-16/ch61/s3/c), [64 Stat. 20](/us/stat/64/20).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Act Mar. 16, 1950, ch. 61, § 7](/us/act/1950-03-16/ch61/s7), [64 Stat. 22](/us/stat/64/22), provided that: “This Act [enacting this section and sections 347a and 347b of this title and amending sections 331 and 342 of this title and sections 45 and 55 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade] shall become effective on July 1, 1950.”

#### Transfer of Appropriations

[Act Mar. 16, 1950, ch. 61, § 5](/us/act/1950-03-16/ch61/s5), [64 Stat. 22](/us/stat/64/22), provided that: “So much of the unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, or other funds (including funds available for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1950) for the use of the Bureau of Internal Revenue of the Treasury Department in the exercise of functions under the Oleomargarine Tax Act (26 U.S.C., § 2300, subchapter A) [now section 4591 et seq. of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code], as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget [now Director of the Office of Management and Budget] may determine, shall be transferred to the Federal Security Agency (Food and Drug Administration) [now the Department of Health and Human Services] for use in the enforcement of this Act [see Effective Date note above].”
