---
title: "§ 1638b. Applicability of Buy American requirement"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1638b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1638b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title III, § 310](/us/pl/94/437/tIII/s310), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title III, § 308](/us/pl/102/573/tIII/s308), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4564](/us/stat/106/4564); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1638b. Applicability of Buy American requirement

##### § 1638b. Applicability of Buy American requirement

(a) Duty of Secretary The Secretary shall ensure that the requirements of the Buy American Act apply to all procurements made with funds made available to carry out this subchapter.

(b) Report to Congress The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report on the amount of procurements from foreign entities made in fiscal years 1993 and 1994 with funds made available to carry out this subchapter. Such report shall separately indicate the dollar value of items procured with such funds for which the Buy American Act was waived pursuant to the Trade Agreement Act of 1979 or any international agreement to which the United States is a party.

(c) Fraudulent use of Made-in-America label If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a “Made in America” inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available to carry out this subchapter, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.

(d) “Buy American Act” defined For purposes of this section, the term “Buy American Act” means title III of the Act entitled “An Act making appropriations for the Treasury and Post Office Departments for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, and for other purposes”, approved March 3, 1933 ([41 U.S.C. 10a](/us/usc/t41/s10a) et seq.) 11 See References in Text note below..

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title III, § 310](/us/pl/94/437/tIII/s310), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title III, § 308](/us/pl/102/573/tIII/s308), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4564](/us/stat/106/4564); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Trade Agreement Act of 1979, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, [Pub. L. 96–39](/us/pl/96/39), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 144](/us/stat/93/144). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under [section 2501 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s2501), Customs Duties, and Tables.

Title III of the Act entitled “An Act making appropriations for the Treasury and Post Office Departments for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, and for other purposes”, approved March 3, 1933, referred to in subsec. (d), is title III of [act Mar. 3, 1933, ch. 212](/us/act/1933-03-03/ch212), [47 Stat. 1520](/us/stat/47/1520), known as the Buy American Act, which was classified generally to sections 10a, 10b, and 10c of former Title 41, Public Contracts, and was substantially repealed and restated in chapter 83 (§ 8301 et seq.) of Title 41, Public Contracts, by [Pub. L. 111–350](/us/pl/111/350), §§ 3, 7(b), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3677](/us/stat/124/3677), 3855. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Short Title of 1933 Act note set out under [section 101 of Title 41](/us/usc/t41/s101) and Tables. For disposition of sections of former Title 41, see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of Title 41](/us/usc/t41/s101).

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on section 101(c)(3) of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Amendments

2010—Subsecs. (a) to (c). [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) substituted “funds made available to carry out this subchapter” for “funds provided pursuant to the authorization contained in [section 1638a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1638a)”.
