---
title: "§ 1436. Reimbursement of appropriations available for classing or grading agriculture commodities without charge"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1436"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1436"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([June 29, 1949, ch. 280](/us/act/1949-06-29/ch280), title I, [63 Stat. 344](/us/stat/63/344).)"
---
# § 1436. Reimbursement of appropriations available for classing or grading agriculture commodities without charge

##### § 1436. Reimbursement of appropriations available for classing or grading agriculture commodities without charge

On and after June 29, 1949, appropriations available for classing or grading any agricultural commodity without charge to the producers thereof may be reimbursed from nonadministrative funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation for the cost of classing or grading any such commodity for producers who obtain Commodity Credit Corporation price support.

*([June 29, 1949, ch. 280](/us/act/1949-06-29/ch280), title I, [63 Stat. 344](/us/stat/63/344).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 440 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s440) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was enacted as part of the Department of Agriculture Appropriation Act, 1950, and not as part of the Agricultural Act of 1949 which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of the 1949 Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1421 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1421) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Exceptions From Transfer of Functions

Functions of Corporations of Department of Agriculture, boards of directors and officers of such corporations; Advisory Board of Commodity Credit Corporation; and Farm Credit Administration or any agency, officer or entity of, under, or subject to supervision of the said Administration excepted from functions of officers, agencies, and employees transferred to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2201).
