---
title: "§ 41727. Passenger Rights 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized"
identifier: "USC-T49-S41727"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section41727"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 118–63, title V, § 510(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tV/s510/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1193](/us/stat/138/1193).)"
---
# § 41727. Passenger Rights 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized

##### § 41727. Passenger Rights 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized.

(a) Guidelines.— The Secretary of Transportation shall require each covered air carrier to submit a summarized 1-page document that describes the rights of passengers in air transportation, including guidelines for the following:

(1) Compensation (regarding rebooking options, refunds, meals, and lodging) for flight delays of various lengths.

(2) Compensation (regarding rebooking options, refunds, meals, and lodging) for flight diversions.

(3) Compensation (regarding rebooking options, refunds, meals, and lodging) for flight cancellations.

(4) Compensation for mishandled baggage, including delayed, damaged, pilfered, or lost baggage.

(5) Voluntary relinquishment of a ticketed seat due to overbooking or priority of other passengers.

(6) Involuntary denial of boarding and forced removal for whatever reason, including for safety and security reasons.

(b) Filing of Summarized Guidelines.— Not later than 90 days after each air carrier submits its guidelines to the Secretary under subsection (a), the air carrier shall make available such 1-page document in a prominent location on its website.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 118–63, title V, § 510(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tV/s510/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1193](/us/stat/138/1193).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section, as added and amended by [section 510(a) of Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63/s510/a), is based on [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title IV, § 429](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIV/s429), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3341](/us/stat/132/3341), which was formerly set out as a note preceding [section 42301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s42301) before being transferred to this chapter and renumbered as this section.

#### Amendments

2024—[Pub. L. 118–63, § 510(a)(1)](/us/pl/118/63/s510/a/1), transferred [section 429 of Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254/s429) to this chapter, renumbered it as this section, and amended style of section catchline. See Codification note above.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 510(a)(2)](/us/pl/118/63/s510/a/2), substituted “The Secretary” for “Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary” in introductory provisions.
