---
title: "§ 7671m. Relationship to other laws"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7671m"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7671m"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title VI, § 614, as added [Pub. L. 101–549, title VI, § 602(a)](/us/pl/101/549/tVI/s602/a), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2668](/us/stat/104/2668).)"
---
# § 7671m. Relationship to other laws

##### § 7671m. Relationship to other laws

(a) State laws Notwithstanding [section 7416 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7416), during the 2-year period beginning on November 15, 1990, no State or local government may enforce any requirement concerning the design of any new or recalled appliance for the purpose of protecting the stratospheric ozone layer.

(b) Montreal Protocol This subchapter as added by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 shall be construed, interpreted, and applied as a supplement to the terms and conditions of the Montreal Protocol, as provided in Article 2, paragraph 11 thereof, and shall not be construed, interpreted, or applied to abrogate the responsibilities or obligations of the United States to implement fully the provisions of the Montreal Protocol. In the case of conflict between any provision of this subchapter and any provision of the Montreal Protocol, the more stringent provision shall govern. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed, interpreted, or applied to affect the authority or responsibility of the Administrator to implement Article 4 of the Montreal Protocol with other appropriate agencies.

(c) Technology export and overseas investment Upon November 15, 1990, the President shall—

(1) prohibit the export of technologies used to produce a class I substance;

(2) prohibit direct or indirect investments by any person in facilities designed to produce a class I or class II substance in nations that are not parties to the Montreal Protocol; and

(3) direct that no agency of the government provide bilateral or multilateral subsidies, aids, credits, guarantees, or insurance programs, for the purpose of producing any class I substance.

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title VI, § 614, as added [Pub. L. 101–549, title VI, § 602(a)](/us/pl/101/549/tVI/s602/a), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2668](/us/stat/104/2668).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means [Pub. L. 101–549](/us/pl/101/549), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2399](/us/stat/104/2399). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1990 Amendment note set out under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7401) and Tables.
