---
title: "§ 2739. Amounts recovered from third parties for loss or damage to personal property shipped or stored at Government expense: crediting to appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2739"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2739"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1010(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tX/s1010/a/1), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2117](/us/stat/112/2117).)"
---
# § 2739. Amounts recovered from third parties for loss or damage to personal property shipped or stored at Government expense: crediting to appropriations

##### § 2739. Amounts recovered from third parties for loss or damage to personal property shipped or stored at Government expense: crediting to appropriations

(a) Crediting of Collections.— Any qualifying military department third-party collection shall be credited to the appropriate current appropriation. Amounts so credited shall be merged with the funds in that appropriation and shall be available for the same period and purposes as the funds with which merged.

(b) Appropriate Current Appropriation.— For purposes of subsection (a), the appropriate current appropriation with respect to a qualifying military department third-party collection is the appropriation currently available, as of the date of the collection, for the payment of claims by that military department for loss or damage of personal property shipped or stored at Government expense.

(c) Qualifying Military Department Third-Party Collections.— For purposes of subsection (a), a qualifying military department third-party collection is any amount that a military department collects under sections 3711, 3716, 3717, and 3721 of title 31 from a third party for a loss or damage to personal property that occurred during shipment or storage of the property at Government expense and for which the Secretary of the military department paid the owner in settlement of a claim.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1010(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tX/s1010/a/1), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2117](/us/stat/112/2117).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1010(b)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tX/s1010/b), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2117](/us/stat/112/2117), provided that: “[Section 2739 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2739), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), applies with respect to amounts collected by a military department on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 1998].”
