---
title: "§ 3673A. Risk-based surveys"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3673A"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3673A"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–315, title I, § 1013(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/315/tI/s1013/a/1), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 4942](/us/stat/134/4942); amended [Pub. L. 117–16, § 7(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/16/s7/a/3), (b)(1), June 8, 2021, [135 Stat. 285](/us/stat/135/285); [Pub. L. 117–333, § 12(a)](/us/pl/117/333/s12/a), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6134](/us/stat/136/6134).)"
---
# § 3673A. Risk-based surveys

##### § 3673A. Risk-based surveys

(a) Development Required.— The Secretary, in partnership with State approving agencies, shall develop a risk-based survey for oversight of educational institutions with courses and programs of education approved under this chapter.

(b) Scope.—

(1) The scope of the risk-based survey developed under subsection (a) shall be determined by the Secretary, in partnership with the State approving agency.

(2) At a minimum the scope determined under paragraph (1) shall include the following:

(A) Rapid increase in veteran enrollment.

(B) Rapid increase in tuition and fees.

(C) Complaints tracked and published with the mechanism required by section 3698(b)(2) from students pursuing programs of education with educational assistance furnished under laws administered by the Secretary, based on severity or volume of the complaints.

(D) Compliance with [section 3680A(d)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3680A/d/1).

(E) Veteran completion rates.

(F) Indicators of financial stability.

(G) Review of the advertising and recruiting practices of the educational institution, including those by third-party contractors of the educational institution.

(H) Matters for which the Federal Government or a State Government brings an action in a court of competent jurisdiction against an educational institution, including matters in cases in which the Federal Government or the State comes to a settled agreement on such matters outside of the court.

(c) Database.— The Secretary, in partnership with the State approving agencies under this chapter, shall establish a searchable database or use an existing system, as the Secretary considers appropriate, to serve as a central repository for information required for or collected during site visits for the risk-based survey developed under subsection (a), so as to improve future oversight of educational institutions with programs of education approved under this chapter.

(d) Notice.— To the maximum amount feasible, the Secretary, or a State approving agency, as applicable, shall provide not more than one business day of notice to an educational institution before conducting a targeted risk-based survey of the institution under this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–315, title I, § 1013(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/315/tI/s1013/a/1), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 4942](/us/stat/134/4942); amended [Pub. L. 117–16, § 7(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/16/s7/a/3), (b)(1), June 8, 2021, [135 Stat. 285](/us/stat/135/285); [Pub. L. 117–333, § 12(a)](/us/pl/117/333/s12/a), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6134](/us/stat/136/6134).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–333](/us/pl/117/333) added subsec. (d).

2021—[Pub. L. 117–16, § 7(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/16/s7/b/1), made technical correction to directory language of [Pub. L. 116–315, § 1013(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/315/s1013/a/1), which enacted this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–16, § 7(a)(3)(A)](/us/pl/117/16/s7/a/3/A), struck out “searchable” before “risk-based survey”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–16, § 7(a)(3)(B)](/us/pl/117/16/s7/a/3/B), inserted “searchable” before “database”.
