---
title: "§ 1910. Report of disbursements"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1910"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1910"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–55, title I, § 1005](/us/pl/109/55/tI/s1005), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 575](/us/stat/119/575).)"
---
# § 1910. Report of disbursements

##### § 1910. Report of disbursements

(a) In general Not later than 60 days after the last day of each semiannual period, the Chief of the Capitol Police shall submit to Congress, with respect to that period, a detailed, itemized report of the disbursements for the operations of the United States Capitol Police.

(b) Contents The report required by subsection (a) shall include—

(1) the name of each person or entity who receives a payment from the Capitol Police and the amount thereof;

(2) a description of any service rendered to the Capitol Police, together with service dates;

(3) a statement of all amounts appropriated to, or received or expended by, the Capitol Police and any unexpended balances of such amounts for any open fiscal year; and

(4) such additional information as may be required by regulation of the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

(c) Printing Each report under this section shall be printed as a House document.

(d) Effective date This section shall apply with respect to the semiannual periods of October 1 through March 31 and April 1 through September 30 of each year, beginning with the semiannual period in which this section is enacted.

*([Pub. L. 109–55, title I, § 1005](/us/pl/109/55/tI/s1005), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 575](/us/stat/119/575).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2006.
