---
title: "§ 1503. Dutiable value"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 503, [46 Stat. 731](/us/stat/46/731); [Aug. 8, 1953, ch. 397, § 18(d)](/us/act/1953-08-08/ch397/s18/d), [67 Stat. 518](/us/stat/67/518); [Pub. L. 91–271, title II, § 206](/us/pl/91/271/tII/s206), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 284](/us/stat/84/284); [Pub. L. 96–417, title VI, § 601(4)](/us/pl/96/417/tVI/s601/4), Oct. 10, 1980, [94 Stat. 1744](/us/stat/94/1744).)"
---
# § 1503. Dutiable value

##### § 1503. Dutiable value

Except as provided in section 1520(c) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title (relating to reliquidations on the basis of authorized corrections of errors) or [section 1562 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1562) (relating to withdrawal from manip­ulating warehouses), the basis for the assessment of duties on imported merchandise subject to ad valorem rates of duty or rates based upon or regulated in any manner by the value of the merchandise, shall be the appraised value determined upon liquidation, in accordance with [section 1500 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1500) or any adjustment thereof made pursuant to [section 1501 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1501). *Provided, however*, That if reliquidation is required pursuant to a final judgment or order of the United States Court of International Trade which includes a reappraisement of imported merchandise, the basis for such assessment shall be the final appraised value determined by such court.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 503, [46 Stat. 731](/us/stat/46/731); [Aug. 8, 1953, ch. 397, § 18(d)](/us/act/1953-08-08/ch397/s18/d), [67 Stat. 518](/us/stat/67/518); [Pub. L. 91–271, title II, § 206](/us/pl/91/271/tII/s206), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 284](/us/stat/84/284); [Pub. L. 96–417, title VI, § 601(4)](/us/pl/96/417/tVI/s601/4), Oct. 10, 1980, [94 Stat. 1744](/us/stat/94/1744).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1520(c) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1520/c), referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 108–429, title II, § 2105](/us/pl/108/429/tII/s2105), Dec. 3, 2004, [118 Stat. 2598](/us/stat/118/2598).

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions somewhat similar to those in subsecs. (a) and (b) were contained in [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 503](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s503), [42 Stat. 967](/us/stat/42/967). Provisions similar to former subsec. (b) relating to entries pending reappraisement were contained in [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 489](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s489), [42 Stat. 962](/us/stat/42/962). Both of the acts of 1922 were in part superseded by act June 17, 1930, comprising this section, and repealed by section 651(a)(1) of the 1930 act.

A provision for assessment of duty on merchandise of different values when invoiced at an average price, was contained in R.S. § 2910, prior to repeal by [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 642](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s642), [42 Stat. 989](/us/stat/42/989).

#### Amendments

1980—[Pub. L. 96–417](/us/pl/96/417) redesignated the United States Customs Court as the United States Court of International Trade.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271) substituted provisions that, except as provided in section 1520(c) or 1562 of this title, the basis for the assessment of duties on imported merchandise be the appraised value determined upon liquidation, in accordance with [section 1500 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1500) or any adjustment thereof pursuant to [section 1501 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1501), and be the final appraised value where reliquidation is required pursuant to a final judgment or order of the United States Customs Court, for provisions that, except as provided in [section 1562 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1562), the basis for the assessment of duties on imported merchandise subject to ad valorem rates of duty be the final appraised value, and provisions that for the purpose of determining the rate of duty assessed upon any merchandise when the rate is based upon or regulated in any manner by the value of the merchandise, the final appraised value, except as provided in [section 1562 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1562), be taken as the value of merchandise.

1953—Subsec. (a). Act Aug. 8, 1953, struck out “and in subdivision (b) of this section” after reference to [section 1562 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1562), “the entered value or” after “shall be”, and “whichever is higher” at the end.

Subsecs. (b), (c). Act Aug. 8, 1953, redesignated subsec. (c) as (b). Former subsec. (b), which related to entries pending reappraisement, was repealed by act Aug. 8, 1953.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–417](/us/pl/96/417) effective Nov. 1, 1980, and applicable with respect to civil actions pending on or commenced on or after such date, see [section 701(a) of Pub. L. 96–417](/us/pl/96/417/s701/a), set out as a note under [section 251 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s251), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

For effective date of amendment by [Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271), see [section 203 of Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271/s203), set out as a note under [section 1500 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1500).

#### Effective Date of 1953 Amendment; Savings Provision

Amendment by act Aug. 8, 1953, effective on and after the thirtieth day following Aug. 8, 1953, and savings provision, see notes set out under [section 1304 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1304).
