---
title: "§ 3244. Annual report on reporting requirements"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3244"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3244"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1114, as added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, § 7314(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIII/s7314/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1031](/us/stat/137/1031).)"
---
# § 3244. Annual report on reporting requirements

##### § 3244. Annual report on reporting requirements

(a) Annual report required Not later than March 1 of each fiscal year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report detailing all congressionally mandated reporting requirements applicable to Office 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. of the Director of National Intelligence for the upcoming fiscal year.

(b) Contents Each report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall include, for the fiscal year covered by the report and for each congressionally mandated reporting requirement detailed in the report:

(1) A description of the reporting requirement.

(2) A citation to the provision of law (or other source of congressional directive) imposing the reporting requirement.

(3) Whether the reporting requirement is recurring, conditional, or subject to a termination provision.

(4) Whether the Director recommends repealing or modifying the requirement.

(c) Form Each report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) may be submitted in classified form.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1114, as added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, § 7314(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIII/s7314/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1031](/us/stat/137/1031).)*
