---
title: "§ 10450. Costs for criminal charges and protection orders"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10450"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10450"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2011](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2011), formerly § 2006, as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40121(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40121/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1915](/us/stat/108/1915); amended [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1101(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1101/b/1), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1492](/us/stat/114/1492); renumbered § 2011, [Pub. L. 107–273, div. A, title IV, § 402(2)](/us/pl/107/273/dA/tIV/s402/2), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1789](/us/stat/116/1789"
---
# § 10450. Costs for criminal charges and protection orders

##### § 10450. Costs for criminal charges and protection orders

(a) In general A State, Indian tribal government, or unit of local government, shall not be entitled to funds under this subchapter unless the State, Indian tribal government, or unit of local government—

(1) certifies that its laws, policies, and practices do not require, in connection with the prosecution of any misdemeanor or felony domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking offense, or in connection with the filing, issuance, registration, modification, enforcement, dismissal, withdrawal or service of a protection order, or a petition for a protection order, to protect a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, that the victim bear the costs associated with the filing of criminal charges against the offender, or the costs associated with the filing, issuance, registration, modification, enforcement, dismissal, withdrawal or service of a warrant, protection order, petition for a protection order, or witness subpoena, whether issued inside or outside the State, tribal, or local jurisdiction; or

(2) gives the Attorney General assurances that its laws, policies and practices will be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1) within the later of—

(A) the period ending on the date on which the next session of the State legislature ends; or

(B) 2 years after October 28, 2000.

(b) Redistribution Funds withheld from a State, unit of local government, or Indian tribal government under subsection (a) shall be distributed to other States, units of local government, and Indian tribal government, respectively, pro rata.

(c) Definition In this section, the term “protection order” has the meaning given the term in [section 2266 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2266).

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2011](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2011), formerly § 2006, as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40121(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40121/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1915](/us/stat/108/1915); amended [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1101(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1101/b/1), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1492](/us/stat/114/1492); renumbered § 2011, [Pub. L. 107–273, div. A, title IV, § 402(2)](/us/pl/107/273/dA/tIV/s402/2), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1789](/us/stat/116/1789); [Pub. L. 108–405, title III, § 310(b)](/us/pl/108/405/tIII/s310/b), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2276](/us/stat/118/2276); [Pub. L. 113–4, title I, § 101(5)](/us/pl/113/4/tI/s101/5), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 69](/us/stat/127/69).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796gg–5 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796gg–5), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) inserted “modification, enforcement, dismissal, withdrawal” after “registration,” in two places and “, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking” after “felony domestic violence” and substituted “victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking” for “victim of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault”.

2000—[Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/b/1/A), in section catchline, substituted “Costs” for “Filing costs” and inserted “and protection orders” after “charges”.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(b)(1)(B)(i)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/b/1/B/i), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: “certifies that its laws, policies, and practices do not require, in connection with the prosecution of any misdemeanor or felony domestic violence offense, that the abused bear the costs associated with the filing of criminal charges against the domestic violence offender, or the costs associated with the issuance or service of a warrant, protection order, or witness subpoena; or”.

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(b)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/b/1/B/ii), substituted “2 years after October 28, 2000” for “2 years”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 106–386, § 1101(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/106/386/s1101/b/1/C), added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4/s4), set out as a note under [section 2261 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2261), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
