---
title: "§ 2152j–4. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2152j–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2152j–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–68, § 9](/us/pl/115/68/s9), Oct. 6, 2017, [131 Stat. 1206](/us/stat/131/1206).)"
---
# § 2152j–4. Definitions

##### § 2152j–4. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the of the 11 So in original. House of Representatives.

(2) Relevant Federal departments and agencies The term “relevant Federal departments and agencies” means—

(A) the United States Agency for International Development;

(B) the Department of State;

(C) the Department of Defense;

(D) the Department of Homeland Security; and

(E) any other department or agency specified by the President for purposes of sections 2152j to 2152j–4 of this title.

(3) Stakeholders The term “stakeholders” means non-governmental and private sector entities engaged in or affected by conflict prevention and stabilization, peace building, protection, security, transition initiatives, humanitarian response, or related efforts.

*([Pub. L. 115–68, § 9](/us/pl/115/68/s9), Oct. 6, 2017, [131 Stat. 1206](/us/stat/131/1206).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.
