---
title: "§ 6158. Utilization of funds for specialized training of professional staff for Majority and Minority Conference Committee of Senate"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6158"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6158"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–520, title I, § 2](/us/pl/101/520/tI/s2), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2257](/us/stat/104/2257).)"
---
# § 6158. Utilization of funds for specialized training of professional staff for Majority and Minority Conference Committee of Senate

##### § 6158. Utilization of funds for specialized training of professional staff for Majority and Minority Conference Committee of Senate

Funds appropriated to the Conference of the Majority and funds appropriated to the Conference of the Minority for any fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal year ending September 30, 1991), may be utilized in such amounts as the Chairman of each Conference deems appropriate for the specialized training of professional staff, subject to such limitations, insofar as they are applicable, as are imposed by the Committee on Rules and Administration with respect to such training when provided to professional staff of standing committees of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 101–520, title I, § 2](/us/pl/101/520/tI/s2), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2257](/us/stat/104/2257).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61g–8 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61g–8) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1991, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions relating to utilization of funds for specific fiscal year for specialized training of professional staff for Majority and Minority Conference Committee of Senate were contained in the following prior appropriation acts:

[Pub. L. 101–163, title I, § 2](/us/pl/101/163/tI/s2), Nov. 21, 1989, [103 Stat. 1044](/us/stat/103/1044).

[Pub. L. 100–458, title I, § 2](/us/pl/100/458/tI/s2), Oct. 1, 1988, [102 Stat. 2161](/us/stat/102/2161).

[Pub. L. 100–202, § 101(i) [title I]](/us/pl/100/202/s101/i/tI), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1329–290](/us/stat/101/1329-290), 1329–292.
