---
title: "§ 4333. Expenses of committees payable from Senate contingent fund"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4333"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4333"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1879, ch. 183](/us/act/1879-03-03/ch183), [20 Stat. 419](/us/stat/20/419); [June 10, 1921, ch. 18](/us/act/1921-06-10/ch18), title III, § 304, [42 Stat. 24](/us/stat/42/24); [June 22, 1949, ch. 235, § 101](/us/act/1949-06-22/ch235/s101), [63 Stat. 218](/us/stat/63/218).)"
---
# § 4333. Expenses of committees payable from Senate contingent fund

##### § 4333. Expenses of committees payable from Senate contingent fund

When any duty is imposed upon a committee involving expenses that are ordered to be paid out of the contingent fund of the Senate, upon vouchers to be approved by the chairman of the committee charged with such duty, the receipt of such chairman for any sum advanced to him or his order out of said contingent fund by the Secretary of the Senate for committee expenses not involving personal services shall be taken and passed by the accounting officers of the Government as a full and sufficient voucher; but it shall be the duty of such chairman, as soon as practicable, to furnish to the Secretary of the Senate vouchers in detail for the expenses so incurred.

*([Mar. 3, 1879, ch. 183](/us/act/1879-03-03/ch183), [20 Stat. 419](/us/stat/20/419); [June 10, 1921, ch. 18](/us/act/1921-06-10/ch18), title III, § 304, [42 Stat. 24](/us/stat/42/24); [June 22, 1949, ch. 235, § 101](/us/act/1949-06-22/ch235/s101), [63 Stat. 218](/us/stat/63/218).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 69 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s69) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1949—Act June 22, 1949, inserted “for committee expenses not involving personal services” after “Secretary of the Senate”, and omitted the requirement that the Secretary of the Senate file the vouchers with the General Accounting Office.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Act June 10, 1921, transferred powers and duties of Comptroller, six auditors, and certain other officers of the Treasury to General Accounting Office.
