---
title: "§ 1908. Transitional immigration rules"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1908"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1908"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–239, title I, § 108](/us/pl/99/239/tI/s108), Jan. 14, 1986, [99 Stat. 1798](/us/stat/99/1798).)"
---
# § 1908. Transitional immigration rules

##### § 1908. Transitional immigration rules

(a) Citizen of Northern Mariana Islands Any person who is a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands, as that term is defined in [section 24(b) of the Act of December 8, 1983](/us/act/1983-12-08/s24/b) ([97 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/97/1465)), is considered a citizen of the United States for purposes of entry into, permanent residence, and employment in the United States and its territories and possessions.

(b) Termination The provisions of this section shall cease to be effective when section 301 of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States ([Public Law 94–241](/us/pl/94/241)) becomes effective pursuant to section 1003(c) of the Covenant.

*([Pub. L. 99–239, title I, § 108](/us/pl/99/239/tI/s108), Jan. 14, 1986, [99 Stat. 1798](/us/stat/99/1798).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 24(b) of the Act of December 8, 1983](/us/act/1983-12-08/s24/b), referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 98–213, § 24(b)](/us/pl/98/213/s24/b), Dec. 8, 1983, [97 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/97/1465), which was formerly set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1801).

The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States, referred to in subsec. (b), is contained in [section 1 of Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241/s1), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1801). For November 4, 1986, as the effective date of section 301 of the Covenant, see Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986, 51 F.R. 40399, set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1801).

[Public Law 94–241](/us/pl/94/241), referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241), Mar. 24, 1976, [90 Stat. 263](/us/stat/90/263), as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1801 et seq.) of chapter 17 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1681).
