---
title: "§ 1453a. Additional Assistant Secretary of the Interior; appointment; duties; compensation"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1453a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1453a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–22, § 1](/us/pl/92/22/s1), June 1, 1971, [85 Stat. 75](/us/stat/85/75).)"
---
# § 1453a. Additional Assistant Secretary of the Interior; appointment; duties; compensation

##### § 1453a. Additional Assistant Secretary of the Interior; appointment; duties; compensation

There shall be hereafter in the Department of the Interior, in addition to the Assistant Secretaries now provided by law, an additional Assistant Secretary of the Interior who shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, who shall be responsible for such duties as the Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe, and shall receive compensation at the rate now or hereafter prescribed by law for Assistant Secretaries of the Interior.

*([Pub. L. 92–22, § 1](/us/pl/92/22/s1), June 1, 1971, [85 Stat. 75](/us/stat/85/75).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Senate Confirmation of Presidential Appointment of Additional Assistant Secretary of the Interior as Repealing Provisions for Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Administration

[Pub. L. 92–22, § 3](/us/pl/92/22/s3), June 1, 1971, [85 Stat. 76](/us/stat/85/76), provided that: “Section 4 of Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of 1950, as amended ([64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262)) [set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451)], and item (25) of section 5316, title 5, United States Code, are repealed, effective upon the confirmation by the United States Senate of a Presidential appointee to fill the position created by this Act [enacting this section and [section 5315(18) of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315/18), Government Organization and Employees].”
