---
title: "§ 286a–1. Library facilities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S286a–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section286a–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 467, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 859](/us/stat/99/859); amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(38)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s103/b/38), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688).)"
---
# § 286a–1. Library facilities

##### § 286a–1. Library facilities

The Administrator of General Services may acquire, by purchase, condemnation, donation, or otherwise, a suitable site or sites, selected by the Secretary in accordance with the direction of the Board, for suitable and adequate buildings and facilities for use of the Library and to erect thereon, furnish, and equip such buildings and facilities. Amounts appropriated to carry out this section may be used for the cost of preparation of drawings and specifications, supervision of construction, and other administrative expenses incident to the work. The Administrator of General Services shall prepare the plans and specifications, make all necessary contracts, and supervise construction.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 467, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 859](/us/stat/99/859); amended [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(38)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s103/b/38), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2007—[Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) substituted “for suitable and adequate buildings and facilities for use of the Library” for “for such buildings and facilities” and “Amounts appropriated to carry out this section may be used for” for “The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this section include” and struck out first sentence which read as follows: “There are authorized to be appropriated amounts sufficient for the erection and equipment of suitable and adequate buildings and facilities for use of the Library.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482/s109), set out as a note under [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s281).
