---
title: "§ 3681. Grants"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3681"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3681"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–559, title II, § 201](/us/pl/106/559/tII/s201), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2781](/us/stat/114/2781); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 242(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s242/b/3/B), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2292](/us/stat/124/2292).)"
---
# § 3681. Grants

##### § 3681. Grants

(a) In general The Attorney General may award grants and provide technical assistance to Indian tribes to enable such tribes to carry out programs to support—

(1) the development, enhancement, and continuing operation of tribal justice systems; and

(2) the development and implementation of—

(A) tribal codes and sentencing guidelines;

(B) inter-tribal courts and appellate systems;

(C) tribal probation services, diversion programs, and alternative sentencing provisions;

(D) tribal juvenile services and multi-disciplinary protocols for child physical and sexual abuse; and

(E) traditional tribal judicial practices, traditional tribal justice systems, and traditional methods of dispute resolution.

(b) Consultation In carrying out this section, the Attorney General may consult with the Office of Tribal Justice and any other appropriate tribal or Federal officials.

(c) Regulations The Attorney General may promulgate such regulations and guidelines as may be necessary to carry out this subchapter.

(d) Authorization of appropriations For purposes of carrying out the activities under this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary for fiscal years 2011 through 2015.

*([Pub. L. 106–559, title II, § 201](/us/pl/106/559/tII/s201), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2781](/us/stat/114/2781); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 242(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s242/b/3/B), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2292](/us/stat/124/2292).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211) substituted “2011 through 2015” for “2000 through 2004”.
