---
title: "§ 17211. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17211"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17211"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title VI, § 632](/us/pl/110/140/tVI/s632), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3001(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3001/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2479](/us/stat/134/2479).)"
---
# § 17211. Definitions

##### § 17211. Definitions

(1) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means any of the following entities:

(A) An institution of higher education.

(B) A National Laboratory.

(C) A Federal research agency.

(D) A State research agency.

(E) A nonprofit research organization.

(F) An industrial entity or a multi-institutional consortium thereof.

(2) Institution of higher education The term “institution of higher education” means—

(A) an institution of higher education (as defined in [section 1001(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a)); or

(B) a postsecondary vocational institution (as defined in [section 1002(c) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1002/c)).

(3) Marine energy The term “marine energy” means energy from—

(A) waves, tides, and currents in oceans, estuaries, and tidal areas;

(B) free flowing water in rivers, lakes, streams, and man-made channels;

(C) differentials in salinity and pressure gradients; and

(D) differentials in water temperature, including ocean thermal energy conversion.

(4) National laboratory The term “National Laboratory” has the meaning given such term in [section 15801(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801/3).

(5) Water power The term “water power” refers to hydropower, including conduit power, pumped storage, and marine energy technologies.

(6) Microgrid The term “microgrid” has the meaning given such term in [section 17231 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17231).

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title VI, § 632](/us/pl/110/140/tVI/s632), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3001(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3001/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2479](/us/stat/134/2479).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 17211, [Pub. L. 110–140, title VI, § 632](/us/pl/110/140/tVI/s632), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1686](/us/stat/121/1686), related to definitions of terms, prior to the general amendment of this part by [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

This part was formerly known as the “Marine and Hydrokinetic Renewable Energy Research and Development Act”, see Short Title note formerly set out under [section 17001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17001).
