---
title: "§ 1601. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S1601"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section1601"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–75, § 2](/us/pl/95/75/s2), July 27, 1977, [91 Stat. 308](/us/stat/91/308).)"
---
# § 1601. Definitions

##### § 1601. Definitions

(1) “vessel” means every description of watercraft, including nondisplacement craft and seaplanes, used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water; and

(2) “high seas” means all parts of the sea that are not included in the territorial sea or in the internal waters of any nation.

*([Pub. L. 95–75, § 2](/us/pl/95/75/s2), July 27, 1977, [91 Stat. 308](/us/stat/91/308).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in opening par., was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–75](/us/pl/95/75), July 27, 1977, [91 Stat. 308](/us/stat/91/308), known as the “International Navigational Rules Act of 1977”, which enacted this chapter, repealed sections 1051 to 1094 of this title, enacted provisions set out as notes under this section, and repealed provision set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1051).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of International Regulations; Repeal of Former Regulations

[Pub. L. 95–75, § 10](/us/pl/95/75/s10), July 27, 1977, [91 Stat. 311](/us/stat/91/311), provided in part that [Pub. L. 88–131](/us/pl/88/131), enacting sections 1051 to 1094 of this title and a provision set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1051) which sections included the former International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, was repealed effective on the date on which the International Regulations [promulgated pursuant to this chapter] entered into force for the United States [July 15, 1977]. See Proclamation dated Jan. 19, 1977, set out as a note under [section 1602 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1602).

#### References to Former Regulations

[Pub. L. 95–75, § 10](/us/pl/95/75/s10), July 27, 1977, [91 Stat. 311](/us/stat/91/311), provided in part that: “The reference in any other law to [Public Law 88–131](/us/pl/88/131) [enacting sections 1051 to 1094 of this title and enacting a provision set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1051)], or to the regulations set forth in section 4 of that Act [sections 1061 to 1094 of this title], shall be considered a reference, respectively, to this Act [this chapter], or to the International Regulations proclaimed hereunder [set out as a note under [section 1602 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1602)].”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 95–75, § 1](/us/pl/95/75/s1), July 27, 1977, [91 Stat. 308](/us/stat/91/308), provided: “That this Act [enacting this chapter, repealing sections 1051 to 1094 of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under this section, and repealing provisions set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1051)] may be cited as the ‘International Navigational Rules Act of 1977’.”
