---
title: "§ 6040. Importation safeguard against certain Cuban products"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6040"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6040"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–114, title I, § 110](/us/pl/104/114/tI/s110), Mar. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 800](/us/stat/110/800).)"
---
# § 6040. Importation safeguard against certain Cuban products

##### § 6040. Importation safeguard against certain Cuban products

(a) Prohibition on import of and dealings in Cuban products The Congress notes that section 515.204 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, prohibits the entry of, and dealings outside the United States in, merchandise that—

(1) is of Cuban origin;

(2) is or has been located in or transported from or through Cuba; or

(3) is made or derived in whole or in part of any article which is the growth, produce, or manufacture of Cuba.

(b) Effect of NAFTA The Congress notes that United States accession to the North American Free Trade Agreement does not modify or alter the United States sanctions against Cuba. The statement of administrative action accompanying that trade agreement specifically states the following:

(1) “The NAFTA rules of origin will not in any way diminish the Cuban sanctions program. … Nothing in the NAFTA would operate to override this prohibition.”.

(2) “Article 309(3) [of the NAFTA] permits the United States to ensure that Cuban products or goods made from Cuban materials are not imported into the United States from Mexico or Canada and that United States products are not exported to Cuba through those countries.”.

(c) Restriction of sugar imports The Congress notes that section 902(c) of the Food Security Act of 1985 ([Public Law 99–198](/us/pl/99/198)) requires the President not to allocate any of the sugar import quota to a country that is a net importer of sugar unless appropriate officials of that country verify to the President that the country does not import for reexport to the United States any sugar produced in Cuba.

(d) Assurances regarding sugar products Protection of essential security interests of the United States requires assurances that sugar products that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, into the customs territory of the United States are not products of Cuba.

*([Pub. L. 104–114, title I, § 110](/us/pl/104/114/tI/s110), Mar. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 800](/us/stat/110/800).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 902(c) of the Food Security Act of 1985, referred to in subsec. (c), is [section 902(c) of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s902/c), which is set out as a note under [section 1446g of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s1446g), Agriculture.
