---
title: "§ 5910. Treatment of payment stablecoin issuers in insolvency proceedings"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5910"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5910"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–27, § 11(a)](/us/pl/119/27/s11/a), July 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 457](/us/stat/139/457).)"
---
# § 5910. Treatment of payment stablecoin issuers in insolvency proceedings

##### § 5910. Treatment of payment stablecoin issuers in insolvency proceedings

(1) the claim of a person holding payment stablecoins issued by the permitted payment stablecoin issuer shall have priority, on a ratable basis with the claims of other persons holding such payment stablecoins, over the claims of the permitted payment stablecoin issuer and any other holder of claims against the permitted payment stablecoin issuer, with respect to required payment stablecoin reserves;

(2) notwithstanding any other provision of law, including the definition of “claim” under [section 101(5) of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s101/5), any person holding a payment stablecoin issued by the permitted payment stablecoin issuer shall be deemed to hold a claim; and

(3) the priority under paragraph (1) shall not apply to claims other than those arising directly from the holding of payment stablecoins.

*([Pub. L. 119–27, § 11(a)](/us/pl/119/27/s11/a), July 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 457](/us/stat/139/457).)*

#### Delayed Effective Date of Section

For delayed effective date of section, see Effective Date note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subsection (d), referred to in introductory provisions, means subsec. (d) of [section 11 of Pub. L. 119–27](/us/pl/119/27/s11).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of the date that is 18 months after July 18, 2025, or the date that is 120 days after the date on which the primary Federal payment stablecoin regulators issue any final regulations implementing [Pub. L. 119–27](/us/pl/119/27), see [section 20 of Pub. L. 119–27](/us/pl/119/27/s20), set out as a note under [section 5901 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5901).
