---
title: "§ 7720. National plan for control and management of Sudden Oak Death"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7720"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7720"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–488, § 1](/us/pl/108/488/s1), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3964](/us/stat/118/3964).)"
---
# § 7720. National plan for control and management of Sudden Oak Death

##### § 7720. National plan for control and management of Sudden Oak Death

(a) Development of national plan Subject to the availability of appropriated funds for this purpose, the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Animal Plant and Health Inspection Service, shall develop a national plan for the control and management of Sudden Oak Death, a forest disease caused by the fungus-like pathogen Phytophthora ramorum.

(b) Plan elements In developing the plan, the Secretary shall specifically address the following:

(1) Information derived by the Department of Agriculture from ongoing efforts to identify hosts of Phytophthora ramorum and survey the extent to which Sudden Oak Death exists in the United States.

(2) Past and current efforts to understand the risk posed by Phytophthora ramorum and the results of control and management efforts regarding Sudden Oak Death, including efforts related to research, control, quarantine, and hazardous fuel reduction.

(3) Such future efforts as the Secretary considers necessary to control and manage Sudden Oak Death, including cost estimates for the implementation of such efforts.

(c) Consultation The Secretary shall develop the plan in consultation with other Federal agencies that have appropriate expertise regarding the control and management of Sudden Oak Death.

(d) Implementation of plan The Secretary shall complete the plan and commence implementation as soon as practicable after the date on which funds are first appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in subsection (e) to carry out this section.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 108–488, § 1](/us/pl/108/488/s1), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3964](/us/stat/118/3964).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Plant Protection Act which comprises this chapter.
