---
title: "§ 21731. Report"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21731"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21731"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–70, title III, § 302](/us/pl/115/70/tIII/s302), Oct. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/131/1212).)"
---
# § 21731. Report

##### § 21731. Report

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after the date on which the collection of statistical data under [section 21722(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s21722/a/1) begins and once each year thereafter, the Director of the Office for Victims of Crime shall submit a report to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives that addresses, to the extent data are available, the nature, extent, and amount of funding under the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 ([42 U.S.C. 10601](/us/usc/t42/s10601) et seq.) 11 See References in Text note below. for victims of crime who are elders.

(b) Contents The report required under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) an analysis of victims’ assistance, victims’ compensation, and discretionary grants under which elder abuse victims (including elder victims of financial abuse, financial exploitation, and fraud) received assistance; and

(2) recommendations for improving services for victims of elder abuse.

*([Pub. L. 115–70, title III, § 302](/us/pl/115/70/tIII/s302), Oct. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/131/1212).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Victims of Crime Act of 1984, referred to in subsec. (a), is chapter XIV of title II of [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2170](/us/stat/98/2170), which was classified principally to chapter 112 (§ 10601 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 201 (§ 20101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1984 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.
