---
title: "§ 1943. Appointment of permanent commissioned teaching staff"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1943"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1943"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 509](/us/stat/63/509), § 188; [Pub. L. 86–474, § 1(11)](/us/pl/86/474/s1/11), May 14, 1960, [74 Stat. 145](/us/stat/74/145); [Pub. L. 94–546, § 1(15)](/us/pl/94/546/s1/15), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2520](/us/stat/90/2520); renumbered § 1943, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 110(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s110/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4212](/us/stat/132/4212).)"
---
# § 1943. Appointment of permanent commissioned teaching staff

##### § 1943. Appointment of permanent commissioned teaching staff

The President may appoint in the Coast Guard, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, the professors, associate professors, assistant professors, and instructors who are to serve on the permanent commissioned teaching staff of the Academy. An original appointment to the permanent commissioned teaching staff, unless the appointee has served as a civilian member of the teaching staff, regular commissioned officer, temporary commissioned officer, or reserve commissioned officer in the Coast Guard, shall be a temporary appointment until the appointee has satisfactorily completed a probationary term of four years of service; thereafter he may be regularly appointed and his rank shall date from the date of his temporary appointment in the grade in which permanently appointed.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 509](/us/stat/63/509), § 188; [Pub. L. 86–474, § 1(11)](/us/pl/86/474/s1/11), May 14, 1960, [74 Stat. 145](/us/stat/74/145); [Pub. L. 94–546, § 1(15)](/us/pl/94/546/s1/15), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2520](/us/stat/90/2520); renumbered § 1943, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 110(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s110/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4212](/us/stat/132/4212).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 15b ([Apr. 16, 1937, ch. 107, § 1](/us/act/1937-04-16/ch107/s1), [50 Stat. 66](/us/stat/50/66); [May 2, 1942, ch. 273](/us/act/1942-05-02/ch273), [56 Stat. 265](/us/stat/56/265)).

Said section has been divided. That part of the first sentence which provides for the composition of the teaching staff is incorporated in [section 187 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s187). The other provisions are incorporated in this section, except for the proviso which has been omitted as no longer needed.

This section incorporates the following changes because of the new plan for the permanent teaching staff: the President is authorized to appoint a candidate to any of the grades prescribed; and the probationary term, applicable unless the candidate has served in the Coast Guard as prescribed in this section, is increased from two to four years. Authorization for appointment in any grade is deemed desirable in order to permit the acquisition of outstanding instructors for the staff. It is believed that the former two-year period was too short to fully evaluate the capabilities of a temporary appointee. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 188 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s188) as this section.

1976—[Pub. L. 94–546](/us/pl/94/546) substituted “grade in which permanently appointed” for “rank in which permanently appointed”.

1960—[Pub. L. 86–474](/us/pl/86/474) substituted “and instructors who are to serve” for “and commissioned instructors who are to serve”, and “civilian member of the teaching staff” for “civilian instructor”.
