---
title: "§ 3808. Limitations"
identifier: "USC-T31-S3808"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section3808"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–509, title VI, § 6103(a)](/us/pl/99/509/tVI/s6103/a), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1947](/us/stat/100/1947); amended [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(57)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/57), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4349](/us/stat/136/4349); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LII, § 5203(h)](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLII/s5203/h), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2443](/us/stat/138/2443).)"
---
# § 3808. Limitations

##### § 3808. Limitations

(a) A notice to the person alleged to be liable with respect to a claim or statement shall be mailed or delivered in accordance with section 3803(d)(1) not later than the later of—

(1) 6 years after the date on which the violation of section 3802 is committed; or

(2) 3 years after the date on which facts material to the action are known or reasonably should have been known by the authority head, but in no event more than 10 years after the date on which the violation is committed.

(b) A civil action to recover a penalty or assessment under [section 3806 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s3806) shall be commenced within 3 years after the date on which the determination of liability for such penalty or assessment becomes final.

(c) If at any time during the course of proceedings brought pursuant to this chapter the authority head receives or discovers any specific information regarding bribery, gratuities, conflict of interest, or other corruption or similar activity in relation to a false claim or statement, the authority head shall immediately report such information to the Attorney General, and in the case of an authority in which an Office of Inspector General is established by chapter 4 of title 5 or by any other Federal law, to the Inspector General of that authority.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–509, title VI, § 6103(a)](/us/pl/99/509/tVI/s6103/a), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1947](/us/stat/100/1947); amended [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(57)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/57), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4349](/us/stat/136/4349); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LII, § 5203(h)](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLII/s5203/h), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2443](/us/stat/138/2443).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a) which read as follows: “A hearing under [section 3803(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s3803/d/2) with respect to a claim or statement shall be commenced within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made, presented, or submitted.”

2022—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “chapter 4 of title 5” for “the Inspector General Act of 1978”.
