---
title: "§ 3241. Congressional declaration of policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3241"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3241"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–242, title II, § 201](/us/pl/95/242/tII/s201), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 124](/us/stat/92/124).)"
---
# § 3241. Congressional declaration of policy

##### § 3241. Congressional declaration of policy

(a) continue to strengthen the safeguards program of the IAEA and, in order to implement this section, contribute funds, technical resources, and other support to assist the IAEA in effectively implementing safeguards;

(b) ensure that the IAEA has the resources to carry out the provisions of Article XII of the Statute of the IAEA;

(c) improve the IAEA safeguards system (including accountability) to ensure—

(1) the timely detection of a possible diversion of source or special nuclear materials which could be used for nuclear explosive devices;

(2) the timely dissemination of information regarding such diversion; and

(3) the timely implementation of internationally agreed procedures in the event of such diversion;

(d) ensure that the IAEA receives on a timely basis the data needed for it to administer an effective and comprehensive international safeguards program and that the IAEA provides timely notice to the world community of any evidence of a violation of any safeguards agreement to which it is a party; and

(e) encourage the IAEA, to the maximum degree consistent with the Statute, to provide nations which supply nuclear materials and equipment with the data needed to assure such nations of adherence to bilateral commitments applicable to such supply.

*([Pub. L. 95–242, title II, § 201](/us/pl/95/242/tII/s201), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 124](/us/stat/92/124).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 10, 1978, except as otherwise provided and regardless of any requirements for the promulgation of implementing regulations, see [section 603(c) of Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242/s603/c), set out as a note under [section 3201 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3201).
