---
title: "§ 152502. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T36-S152502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section152502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1415](/us/stat/112/1415).)"
---
# § 152502. Purposes

##### § 152502. Purposes

(1) to further, encourage, and promote methods and procedures leading to increased safety, protection, and health among employees, employers, and children in industries, on farms, in schools and colleges, in homes, on streets and highways, in recreation, and in other public and private places;

(2) to collect, correlate, publish, and disseminate educational and informative reports and all other data related to safety methods and procedures;

(3) to arouse and maintain the interest of the people of the United States and its territories and possessions in safety and accident prevention, and to encourage the adoption and institution of safety methods by all individuals, corporations, and other organizations;

(4) to organize, establish, and conduct programs, lectures, conferences, and other activities for the education of all individuals, corporations, and other organizations in safety methods and procedures;

(5) to organize and aid in organizing local safety chapters throughout the United States and its territories and possessions, and to provide organizational guidance and materials to promote the national safety;

(6) to cooperate with, enlist, and develop the cooperation of and among all individuals, corporations, and other organizations and agencies, public and private, engaged in, interested in, or in any manner connected with, any of these purposes; and

(7) to do any lawful acts necessary, useful, suitable, desirable, and proper for the furtherance and accomplishment of any of these purposes.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1415](/us/stat/112/1415).)*

Before clause (1), the word “object” is omitted as included in “purposes”.

In clause (2), the words “distribute” and “data” (the first time appearing) are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 152502 | 36:463. | Aug. 13, 1953, ch. 429, § 3, 67 Stat. 569. |
