---
title: "§ 6992f. Relationship to State law"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6992f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6992f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–272, title II, § 11007](/us/pl/89/272/tII/s11007), as added [Pub. L. 100–582, § 2(a)](/us/pl/100/582/s2/a), Nov. 1, 1988, [102 Stat. 2955](/us/stat/102/2955).)"
---
# § 6992f. Relationship to State law

##### § 6992f. Relationship to State law

(a) State inspections and enforcement A State may conduct inspections under 11 So in original. Probably should be “under section”. 6992c of this title and take enforcement actions under [section 6992d of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6992d) against any person, including any person who has imported medical waste into a State in violation of the requirements of, or regulations under, this subchapter, to the same extent as the Administrator. At the time a State initiates an enforcement action under [section 6992d of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6992d) against any person, the State shall notify the Administrator in writing.

(b) Retention of State authority Nothing in this subchapter shall—

(1) preempt any State or local law; or

(2) except as provided in subsection (c), otherwise affect any State or local law or the authority of any State or local government to adopt or enforce any State or local law.

(c) State forms Any State or local law which requires submission of a tracking form from any person subject to this subchapter shall require that the form be identical in content and format to the form required under [section 6992b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6992b), except that a State may require the submission of other tracking information which is supplemental to the information required on the form required under [section 6992b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6992b) through additional sheets or such other means as the State deems appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 89–272, title II, § 11007](/us/pl/89/272/tII/s11007), as added [Pub. L. 100–582, § 2(a)](/us/pl/100/582/s2/a), Nov. 1, 1988, [102 Stat. 2955](/us/stat/102/2955).)*
