---
title: "§ 7511. Definitions; application"
identifier: "USC-T5-S7511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section7511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/95/454/tII/s204/a), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/92/1135); amended [Pub. L. 101–376, § 2(a)](/us/pl/101/376/s2/a), Aug. 17, 1990, [104 Stat. 461](/us/stat/104/461); [Pub. L. 102–378, § 6(a)](/us/pl/102/378/s6/a), Oct. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 1358](/us/stat/106/1358); [Pub. L. 103–359, title V, § 501](/us/pl/103/359/tV/s501)(*l*), Oct. 14, 1994, [108 Stat. 3430](/us/stat/108/3430); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, § 1634(b)](/us/pl/104"
---
# § 7511. Definitions; application

##### § 7511. Definitions; application

(a) For the purpose of this subchapter—

(1) “employee” means—

(A) an individual in the competitive service—

(i) who is not serving a probationary or trial period under an initial appointment; or

(ii) who has completed 1 year of current continuous service under other than a temporary appointment limited to 1 year or less;

(B) a preference eligible in the excepted service who has completed 1 year of current continuous service in the same or similar positions—

(i) in an Executive agency; or

(ii) in the United States Postal Service or Postal Regulatory Commission; and

(C) an individual in the excepted service (other than a preference eligible)—

(i) who is not serving a probationary or trial period under an initial appointment pending conversion to the competitive service; or

(ii) who has completed 2 years of current continuous service in the same or similar positions in an Executive agency under other than a temporary appointment limited to 2 years or less;

(2) “suspension” has the same meaning as set forth in [section 7501(2) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s7501/2);

(3) “grade” means a level of classification under a position classification system;

(4) “pay” means the rate of basic pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee; and

(5) “furlough” means the placing of an employee in a temporary status without duties and pay because of lack of work or funds or other nondisciplinary reasons.

(b) This subchapter does not apply to an employee—

(1) whose appointment is made by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;

(2) whose position has been determined to be of a confidential, policy-determining, policy-making or policy-advocating character by—

(A) the President for a position that the President has excepted from the competitive service;

(B) the Office of Personnel Management for a position that the Office has excepted from the competitive service; or

(C) the President or the head of an agency for a position excepted from the competitive service by statute;

(3) whose appointment is made by the President;

(4) who is receiving an annuity from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, based on the service of such employee;

[(5) Repealed. [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, § 512(c)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tV/s512/c), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2112](/us/stat/130/2112).]

(6) who is a member of the Foreign Service, as described in section 103 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980;

(7) whose position is within the Central Intelligence Agency or the Government Accountability Office;

(8) whose position is within the United States Postal Service, the Postal Regulatory Commission, the Panama Canal Commission, the Tennessee Valley Authority, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, an intelligence component of the Department of Defense (as defined in [section 1614 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1614)), or an intelligence activity of a military department covered under subchapter I of chapter 83 of title 10, unless subsection (a)(1)(B) of this section or [section 1005(a) of title 39](/us/usc/t39/s1005/a) is the basis for this subchapter’s applicability;

(9) who is described in [section 5102(c)(11) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5102/c/11); or

(10) who holds a position within the Veterans Health Administration which has been excluded from the competitive service by or under a provision of title 38, unless such employee was appointed to such position under section 7401(3) of such title.

(c) The Office may provide for the application of this subchapter to any position or group of positions excepted from the competitive service by regulation of the Office which is not otherwise covered by this subchapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/95/454/tII/s204/a), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/92/1135); amended [Pub. L. 101–376, § 2(a)](/us/pl/101/376/s2/a), Aug. 17, 1990, [104 Stat. 461](/us/stat/104/461); [Pub. L. 102–378, § 6(a)](/us/pl/102/378/s6/a), Oct. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 1358](/us/stat/106/1358); [Pub. L. 103–359, title V, § 501](/us/pl/103/359/tV/s501)(*l*), Oct. 14, 1994, [108 Stat. 3430](/us/stat/108/3430); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, § 1634(b)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVI/s1634/b), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2752](/us/stat/110/2752); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814); [Pub. L. 109–435, title VI, § 604(b)](/us/pl/109/435/tVI/s604/b), (f), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 3241](/us/stat/120/3241), 3242; [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title XI, § 1105(c)(4)](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tXI/s1105/c/4), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1024](/us/stat/129/1024); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, § 512(c)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tV/s512/c), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2112](/us/stat/130/2112); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XI, § 1106(b)(2)(D)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXI/s1106/b/2/D), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1950](/us/stat/135/1950).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 103 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, referred to in subsec. (b)(6), is classified to [section 3903 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3903), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7511, [Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 528](/us/stat/80/528); [Pub. L. 94–183, § 2(30)](/us/pl/94/183/s2/30), Dec. 31, 1975, [89 Stat. 1058](/us/stat/89/1058), defined “preference eligible employee” and “adverse action” for purposes of this subchapter, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 95–454, § 204(a)](/us/pl/95/454/s204/a).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a)(1)(A)(ii). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) struck out “except as provided in [section 1599e of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1599e),” before “who has completed 1 year”.

2016—Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) struck out par. (5) which read as follows: “who is described in section 8337(h)(1), relating to technicians in the National Guard;”.

2015—Subsec. (a)(1)(A)(ii). [Pub. L. 114–92](/us/pl/114/92) inserted “except as provided in [section 1599e of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1599e),” before “who”.

2006—Subsec. (a)(1)(B)(ii). [Pub. L. 109–435, § 604(b)](/us/pl/109/435/s604/b), substituted “Postal Regulatory Commission” for “Postal Rate Commission”.

Subsec. (b)(8). [Pub. L. 109–435, § 604(f)](/us/pl/109/435/s604/f), substituted “Postal Regulatory Commission” for “Postal Rate Commission”.

2004—Subsec. (b)(7). [Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271) substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office”.

1996—Subsec. (b)(8). [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) substituted “an intelligence component of the Department of Defense (as defined in [section 1614 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1614)), or an intelligence activity of a military department covered under subchapter I of chapter 83 of title 10” for “the National Security Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Central Imagery Office, or an intelligence activity of a military department covered under [section 1590 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1590)”.

1994—Subsec. (b)(8). [Pub. L. 103–359](/us/pl/103/359) inserted “the Central Imagery Office,” after “Defense Intelligence Agency,”.

1992—Subsec. (b)(7). [Pub. L. 102–378, § 6(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/378/s6/a/1), amended par. (7) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (7) read as follows: “whose position is with the Central Intelligence Agency, the General Accounting Office, or the Veterans Health Services and Research Administration;”.

Subsec. (b)(10). [Pub. L. 102–378, § 6(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/378/s6/a/2)–(4), added par. (10).

1990—[Pub. L. 101–376](/us/pl/101/376) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows:

“(a) For the purpose of this subchapter—

“(1) ‘employee’ means—

“(A) an individual in the competitive service who is not serving a probationary or trial period under an initial appointment or who has completed 1 year of current continuous employment under other than a temporary appointment limited to 1 year or less; and

“(B) a preference eligible in an Executive agency in the excepted service, and a preference eligible in the United States Postal Service or the Postal Rate Commission, who has completed 1 year of current continuous service in the same or similar positions;

“(2) ‘suspension’ has the meaning as set forth in [section 7501(2) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s7501/2);

“(3) ‘grade’ means a level of classification under a position classification system;

“(4) ‘pay’ means the rate of basic pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee; and

“(5) ‘furlough’ means the placing of an employee in a temporary status without duties and pay because of lack of work or funds or other nondisciplinary reasons.

“(b) This subchapter does not apply to an em­ployee—

“(1) whose appointment is made by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;

“(2) whose position has been determined to be of a confidential, policy-determining, policy-making or policy-advocating character by—

“(A) the Office of Personnel Management for a position that it has excepted from the competitive service; or

“(B) the President or the head of an agency for a position which is excepted from the competitive service by statute.

“(c) The Office may provide for the application of this subchapter to any position or group of positions excepted from the competitive service by regulation of the Office.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) applied as if effective Dec. 31, 2022, to correspond to the effective date of the repeal of [section 1599e of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1599e), Armed Forces, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. See Effective Date of Repeal note under [section 1599e of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1599e).

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 1635 of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s1635), set out as a note under [section 1593 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1593), Armed Forces.

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

[Pub. L. 102–378, § 6(b)](/us/pl/102/378/s6/b), Oct. 2, 1992, [106 Stat. 1359](/us/stat/106/1359), provided that: “(1) The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to any personnel action taking effect on or after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 2, 1992]. “(2) In the case of an employee or former employee of the Veterans Health Administration (or predecessor agency in name)—“(A) against whom an adverse personnel action was taken before the date of enactment of this Act, “(B) who, as a result of the enactment of the Civil Service Due Process Amendments ([5 U.S.C. 7501](/us/usc/t5/s7501) note) [[Pub. L. 101–376](/us/pl/101/376)], became ineligible to appeal such action to the Merit Systems Protection Board, “(C) as to whom that appeal right is restored as a result of the enactment of subsection (a), or would have been restored but for the passage of time, and “(D) who is not precluded, by [section 7121(e)(1) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s7121/e/1), United States Code, from appealing to the Merit Systems Protection Board, the deadline for bringing an appeal under section 7513(d) or section 4303(e) of such title with respect to such action shall be the latter of— “(i) the 60th day after the date of enactment of this Act; or “(ii) the deadline which would otherwise apply if this paragraph had not been enacted.”

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–376](/us/pl/101/376) applicable with respect to any personnel action taking effect on or after Aug. 17, 1990, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 101–376](/us/pl/101/376/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 4303 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s4303).

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
