---
title: "§ 50324. Presentation of State and Local Law Enforcement Badges"
identifier: "USC-T34-S50324"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section50324"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–298, title II, § 204](/us/pl/110/298/tII/s204), July 31, 2008, [122 Stat. 2993](/us/stat/122/2993).)"
---
# § 50324. Presentation of State and Local Law Enforcement Badges

##### § 50324. Presentation of State and Local Law Enforcement Badges

(a) Presentation by Member of Congress A Member of Congress may present a State and Local Law Enforcement Badge to any State and Local Law Enforcement Badge recipient who resides in such Member’s congressional district. If both a Senator and Representative choose to present a State and Local Law Enforcement Badge, such Senator and Representative shall make a joint presentation.

(b) Presentation by Attorney General If no Member of Congress chooses to present the State and Local Law Enforcement Badge as described in subsection (a), the Attorney General, or a designee of the Attorney General, shall present such State and Local Law Enforcement Badge.

(c) Presentation arrangements The office of the Member of Congress presenting each State and Local Law Enforcement Badge may make arrangements for the presentation of such State and Local Law Enforcement Badge, and if a Senator and Representative choose to participate jointly as described in subsection (a), the Members shall make joint arrangements. The State and Local Board shall facilitate any such presentation arrangements as requested by the congressional office presenting the State and Local Law Enforcement Badge and shall make arrangements in cases not undertaken by Members of Congress.

*([Pub. L. 110–298, title II, § 204](/us/pl/110/298/tII/s204), July 31, 2008, [122 Stat. 2993](/us/stat/122/2993).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15254 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15254), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
