---
title: "§ 6067. Settlement of outstanding United States claims to confiscated property in Cuba"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6067"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6067"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–114, title II, § 207](/us/pl/104/114/tII/s207), Mar. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 813](/us/stat/110/813).)"
---
# § 6067. Settlement of outstanding United States claims to confiscated property in Cuba

##### § 6067. Settlement of outstanding United States claims to confiscated property in Cuba

(a) Report to Congress Not later than 180 days after March 12, 1996, the Secretary of State shall provide a report to the appropriate congressional committees containing an assessment of the property dispute question in Cuba, including—

(1) an estimate of the number and amount of claims to property confiscated by the Cuban Government that are held by United States nationals in addition to those claims certified under [section 1643f of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1643f);

(2) an assessment of the significance of promptly resolving confiscated property claims to the revitalization of the Cuban economy;

(3) a review and evaluation of technical and other assistance that the United States could provide to help either a transition government in Cuba or a democratically elected government in Cuba establish mechanisms to resolve property questions;

(4) an assessment of the role and types of support the United States could provide to help resolve claims to property confiscated by the Cuban Government that are held by United States nationals who did not receive or qualify for certification under [section 1643f of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1643f); and

(5) an assessment of any areas requiring legislative review or action regarding the resolution of property claims in Cuba prior to a change of government in Cuba.

(d) 11 So in original. No subsec. (b) or (c) has been enacted. Sense of Congress It is the sense of the Congress that the satisfactory resolution of property claims by a Cuban Government recognized by the United States remains an essential condition for the full resumption of economic and diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba.

*([Pub. L. 104–114, title II, § 207](/us/pl/104/114/tII/s207), Mar. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 813](/us/stat/110/813).)*
