---
title: "§ 2350t. Military medical cooperation arrangements among Five Eyes countries"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2350t"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2350t"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VII, § 715(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVII/s715/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 922](/us/stat/139/922).)"
---
# § 2350t. Military medical cooperation arrangements among Five Eyes countries

##### § 2350t. Military medical cooperation arrangements among Five Eyes countries

(a) Authority.— The Secretary of Defense may enter into a bilateral or multilateral memorandum of understanding or other formal agreement with one or more governments of the Five Eyes countries to support military medical cooperation or improve operational medical interoperability.

(b) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “Five Eyes countries” means the following:

(A) Australia.

(B) Canada.

(C) New Zealand.

(D) The United Kingdom.

(2) The term “military medical cooperation” means any of the following:

(A) Information exchange.

(B) Medical interoperability, including credentialing of health care personnel.

(C) Medical education, training, exercises, and evaluation.

(D) Medical research, development, trials, and evaluation.

(E) Biodefense, including with respect to prevention, preparation, response, and investigation.

(F) Medical logistics, including the recognition of MedCM, drugs and medical equipment.

(G) Patient movement.

(H) Any other areas for cooperation designated by the Secretary of Defense.

(3) The term “military medicine” means any of the following:

(A) Combat casualty care including trauma.

(B) Military infectious disease.

(C) Chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear medical support.

(D) Deployed health care delivery.

(E) Public health, health readiness, and force health protection.

(F) Mental health.

(G) Humanitarian response.

(H) Anomalous health incidents.

(I) Mass casualty management.

(J) Any other areas of military medicine designated by the Secretary of Defense.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VII, § 715(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVII/s715/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 922](/us/stat/139/922).)*
