---
title: "§ 1710. Court review of orders"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1710"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1710"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–448, title XIV, § 1411](/us/pl/90/448/tXIV/s1411), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 595](/us/stat/82/595); [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1098A(1)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1098A/1), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2105](/us/stat/124/2105).)"
---
# § 1710. Court review of orders

##### § 1710. Court review of orders

(a) Petition; jurisdiction; findings of Director; additional evidence; finality Any person, aggrieved by an order or determination of the Director issued after a hearing, may obtain a review of such order or determination in the court of appeals of the United States, within any circuit wherein such person resides or has his principal place of business, or in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, by filing in such court, within sixty days after the entry of such order or determination, a written petition praying that the order or determination of the Director be modified or be set aside in whole or in part. A copy of such petition shall be forthwith transmitted by the clerk of the court to the Director, and thereupon the Director shall file in the court the record upon which the order or determination complained of was entered, as provided in [section 2112 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2112). No objection to an order or determination of the Director shall be considered by the court unless such objection shall have been urged before the Director. The finding of the Director as to the facts, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive. If either party shall apply to the court for leave to adduce additional evidence, and shall show to the satisfaction of the court that such additional evidence is material and that there were reasonable grounds for failure to adduce such evidence in the hearing before the Director, the court may order such additional evidence to be taken before the Director and to be adduced upon a hearing in such manner and upon such terms and conditions as to the court may seem proper. The Director may modify his findings as to the facts by reason of the additional evidence so taken, and shall file such modified or new findings, which, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive, and his recommendation, if any, for the modification or setting aside of the original order. Upon the filing of such petition, the jurisdiction of the court shall be exclusive and its judgment and decree, affirming, modifying, or setting aside, in whole or in part, any order of the Director, shall be final, subject to review by the Supreme Court of the United States upon certiorari or certification as provided in [section 1254 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1254).

(b) Stay of order The commencement of proceedings under subsection (a) shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the Secretary’s 11 So in original. Probably should be “Director’s”. order.

*([Pub. L. 90–448, title XIV, § 1411](/us/pl/90/448/tXIV/s1411), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 595](/us/stat/82/595); [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1098A(1)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1098A/1), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2105](/us/stat/124/2105).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) substituted “Director” for “Secretary” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the designated transfer date, see [section 1100H of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1100H), set out as a note under [section 552a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon the expiration of two hundred and seventy days after Aug. 1, 1968, see [section 1423 of Pub. L. 90–448](/us/pl/90/448/s1423), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1701).
