---
title: "§ 7671p. International cooperation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7671p"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7671p"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title VI, § 617, as added [Pub. L. 101–549, title VI, § 602(a)](/us/pl/101/549/tVI/s602/a), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2669](/us/stat/104/2669).)"
---
# § 7671p. International cooperation

##### § 7671p. International cooperation

(a) In general The President shall undertake to enter into international agreements to foster cooperative research which complements studies and research authorized by this subchapter, and to develop standards and regulations which protect the stratosphere consistent with regulations applicable within the United States. For these purposes the President through the Secretary of State and the Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, shall negotiate multilateral treaties, conventions, resolutions, or other agreements, and formulate, present, or support proposals at the United Nations and other appropriate international forums and shall report to the Congress periodically on efforts to arrive at such agreements.

(b) Assistance to developing countries The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall support global participation in the Montreal Protocol by providing technical and financial assistance to developing countries that are Parties to the Montreal Protocol and operating under article 5 of the Protocol. There are authorized to be appropriated not more than $30,000,000 to carry out this section in fiscal years 1991, 1992 and 1993 and such sums as may be necessary in fiscal years 1994 and 1995. If China and India become Parties to the Montreal Protocol, there are authorized to be appropriated not more than an additional $30,000,000 to carry out this section in fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993.

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title VI, § 617, as added [Pub. L. 101–549, title VI, § 602(a)](/us/pl/101/549/tVI/s602/a), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2669](/us/stat/104/2669).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Authority of Secretary of State

Except as otherwise provided, Secretary of State to have and exercise any authority vested by law in any official or office of Department of State and references to such officials or offices deemed to refer to Secretary of State or Department of State, as appropriate, see [section 2651a of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s2651a), Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and [section 161(d) of Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236/s161/d), set out as a note under [section 2651a of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s2651a).
