---
title: "§ 277d–35. Construction, operation, and maintenance of works; property relocation, contracts; transfer of authority"
identifier: "USC-T22-S277d–35"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section277d–35"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–549, title I, § 102](/us/pl/92/549/tI/s102), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/86/1161).)"
---
# § 277d–35. Construction, operation, and maintenance of works; property relocation, contracts; transfer of authority

##### § 277d–35. Construction, operation, and maintenance of works; property relocation, contracts; transfer of authority

(1) to construct, operate, and maintain all works provided for in the treaty and title I of this Act;

(2) to enter into contracts with the owners of properties to be relocated whereby such owners undertake to perform, at the expense of the United States, any or all operations involved in such relocations; and

(3) to turn over the operation and maintenance of any works referred to in paragraph (1) of this section to any Federal agency, or any State, county, municipality, district, or other political subdivision within which such works may be situated, in whole or in part, upon such terms, conditions, and requirements as the Commissioner may deem appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 92–549, title I, § 102](/us/pl/92/549/tI/s102), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/86/1161).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 92–549](/us/pl/92/549), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/86/1161), known as the “American-Mexican Boundary Treaty Act of 1972”. Title I of this Act enacted sections 277d–34 to 277d–40 of this title and amended [section 1322 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1322), Customs Duties. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 277d–34 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s277d–34) and Tables.
