---
title: "§ 1646. Derivative eligibility for benefits"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1646"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1646"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–193, title IV, § 436](/us/pl/104/193/tIV/s436), as added [Pub. L. 105–33, title V, § 5305(a)](/us/pl/105/33/tV/s5305/a), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 601](/us/stat/111/601).)"
---
# § 1646. Derivative eligibility for benefits

##### § 1646. Derivative eligibility for benefits

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an alien who under the provisions of this chapter is ineligible for benefits under the food stamp program (as defined in [section 1612(a)(3)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1612/a/3/B)) shall not be eligible for such benefits because the alien receives benefits under the supplemental security income program (as defined in [section 1612(a)(3)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1612/a/3/A)).

*([Pub. L. 104–193, title IV, § 436](/us/pl/104/193/tIV/s436), as added [Pub. L. 105–33, title V, § 5305(a)](/us/pl/105/33/tV/s5305/a), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 601](/us/stat/111/601).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title” meaning title IV of [Pub. L. 104–193](/us/pl/104/193), Aug. 22, 1996, [110 Stat. 2260](/us/stat/110/2260), which enacted this chapter, [section 1183a of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1183a), and sections 611a and 1437y of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, amended [section 1383 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1383), sections 32 and 6213 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, and sections 1436a and 1471 of Title 42, and enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 1183a of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1183a) and [section 32 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s32). For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

References to the food stamp program established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 considered to refer to the supplemental nutrition assistance program established under that Act, see [section 4002(c) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4002/c), set out as a note under [section 2012 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s2012), Agriculture.

#### Effective Date

Section effective, except as otherwise provided, as if included in the enactment of title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, [Pub. L. 104–193](/us/pl/104/193), see [section 5308 of Pub. L. 105–33](/us/pl/105/33/s5308), set out as an Effective Date of 1997 Amendment note under [section 1612 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1612).
