---
title: "§ 3933. Fines and penalties under contracts"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3933"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3933"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title II, § 203, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2843](/us/stat/117/2843).)"
---
# § 3933. Fines and penalties under contracts

##### § 3933. Fines and penalties under contracts

(a) Prohibition of penalties When an action for compliance with the terms of a contract is stayed pursuant to this chapter, a penalty shall not accrue for failure to comply with the terms of the contract during the period of the stay.

(b) Reduction or waiver of fines or penalties If a servicemember fails to perform an obligation arising under a contract and a penalty is incurred arising from that nonperformance, a court may reduce or waive the fine or penalty if—

(1) the servicemember was in military service at the time the fine or penalty was incurred; and

(2) the ability of the servicemember to perform the obligation was materially affected by such military service.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title II, § 203, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2843](/us/stat/117/2843).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 523 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 203 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. II, [54 Stat. 1181](/us/stat/54/1181), related to stay or vacation of execution of judgments and attachments, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189). See [section 3934 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3934).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
