---
title: "§ 2206. Comptroller General audit"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 166, as added [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 951](/us/stat/68/951); amended [Pub. L. 85–681, § 8](/us/pl/85/681/s8), Aug. 19, 1958, [72 Stat. 634](/us/stat/72/634); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8)](/us/pl/102/486/tIX/s902/a/8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2944](/us/stat/106/2944); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/1"
---
# § 2206. Comptroller General audit

##### § 2206. Comptroller General audit

No moneys appropriated for the purposes of this chapter shall be available for payments under any contract with the Commission, negotiated without advertising, except contracts with any foreign government or any agency thereof and contracts with foreign producers, unless such contract includes a clause to the effect that the Comptroller General of the United States or any of his duly authorized representatives shall, until the expiration of three years after final payment, have access to and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers, and records of the contractor or any of his subcontractors engaged in the performance of, and involving transactions related to such contracts or subcontracts: *Provided, however*, That no moneys so appropriated shall be available for payment under such contract which includes any provision precluding an audit by the Government Accountability Office of any transaction under such contract: *And provided further*, That nothing in this section shall preclude the earlier disposal of contractor and subcontractor records in accordance with records disposal schedules agreed upon between the Commission and the Government Accountability Office.

*([Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), title I, § 166, as added [Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 951](/us/stat/68/951); amended [Pub. L. 85–681, § 8](/us/pl/85/681/s8), Aug. 19, 1958, [72 Stat. 634](/us/stat/72/634); renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8)](/us/pl/102/486/tIX/s902/a/8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2944](/us/stat/106/2944); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 919](/us/stat/68/919), known as the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2011) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2004—[Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271) substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office” in two places.

1958—[Pub. L. 85–681](/us/pl/85/681) inserted proviso relating to records disposal.
