---
title: "§ 5114. Interest charges covered into revolving fund"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5114"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5114"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 28, 1941, ch. 259, § 1](/us/act/1941-06-28/ch259/s1), [55 Stat. 316](/us/stat/55/316).)"
---
# § 5114. Interest charges covered into revolving fund

##### § 5114. Interest charges covered into revolving fund

Interest or other charges heretofore or hereafter collected on loans shall be credited to the revolving fund created by [section 5113 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5113) and shall be available for the establishment of a revolving fund for the purpose of making and administering loans to Indian-chartered corporations in accordance with the Act of June 18, 1934 ([48 Stat. 986](/us/stat/48/986)) [[25 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t25/s5101) et seq.], and of making and administering loans to individual Indians and to associations or corporate groups of Indians of Oklahoma in accordance with the Act of June 26, 1936 ([49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967)).

*([June 28, 1941, ch. 259, § 1](/us/act/1941-06-28/ch259/s1), [55 Stat. 316](/us/stat/55/316).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, is [act June 18, 1934, ch. 576](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576), [48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

Act of June 26, 1936, referred to in text, is [act June 26, 1936, ch. 831](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967), popularly known as the Oklahoma Welfare Act, which was classified generally to subchapter VIII (§ 501 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 45A (§ 5201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5201) and Tables. Provisions of the Act relating to the revolving fund appear in [section 5206 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5206).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 470a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s470a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
