---
title: "§ 3456. Resource Conservation and Development Policy Advisory Board"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3456"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3456"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–98, title XV, § 1533](/us/pl/97/98/tXV/s1533), as added [Pub. L. 107–171, title II, § 2504](/us/pl/107/171/tII/s2504), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 273](/us/stat/116/273).)"
---
# § 3456. Resource Conservation and Development Policy Advisory Board

##### § 3456. Resource Conservation and Development Policy Advisory Board

(a) Establishment The Secretary shall establish within the Department of Agriculture a Resource Conservation and Development Policy Advisory Board.

(b) Composition

(1) In general The Board shall be composed of at least 7 employees of the Department of Agriculture selected by the Secretary.

(2) Chairperson A member of the Board shall be designated by the Secretary to serve as chairperson of the Board.

(c) Duties The Board shall advise the Secretary regarding the administration of this subchapter, including the formulation of policies for carrying out this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 97–98, title XV, § 1533](/us/pl/97/98/tXV/s1533), as added [Pub. L. 107–171, title II, § 2504](/us/pl/107/171/tII/s2504), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 273](/us/stat/116/273).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3456, [Pub. L. 97–98, title XV, § 1533](/us/pl/97/98/tXV/s1533), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1339](/us/stat/95/1339), related to technical and financial assistance to carry out specified works of improvement, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Boards

Advisory boards established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
