---
title: "§ 1591. Reimbursement for travel and transportation expenses when accompanying Members of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1591"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1591"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title VI, § 617(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/180/dA/tVI/s617/b/1), Dec. 4, 1987, [101 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/101/1097).)"
---
# § 1591. Reimbursement for travel and transportation expenses when accompanying Members of Congress

##### § 1591. Reimbursement for travel and transportation expenses when accompanying Members of Congress

(a) Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary concerned may authorize reimbursement to a civilian employee who is accompanying a Member of Congress or a congressional employee on official travel for actual travel and transportation expenses incurred for such travel.

(b) The allowance provided in subsection (a) may be paid—

(1) at a rate that does not exceed the rate approved for official congressional travel; and

(2) only when the travel of the member is directed or approved by the Secretary concerned.

(c) In this section:

(1) The term “Member of Congress” means a member of the Senate or the House of Representatives, a Delegate to the House of Representatives, and the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico.

(2) The term “congressional employee” means an employee of a Member of Congress or an employee of Congress.

(3) The term “Secretary concerned” includes the Secretary of Defense with respect to civilian employees of the Department of Defense other than a military department.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title VI, § 617(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/180/dA/tVI/s617/b/1), Dec. 4, 1987, [101 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/101/1097).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title VI, § 617(c)](/us/pl/100/180/dA/tVI/s617/c), Dec. 4, 1987, [101 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/101/1097), as amended by [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, § 631(f)(4)(B)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tVI/s631/f/4/B), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/125/1465); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1076(a)(9)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1076/a/9), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1948](/us/stat/126/1948), provided that: “Subsection (h) of [section 474 of title 37](/us/usc/t37/s474), United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), and [section 1591 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1591), United States Code (as added by subsection (b)), shall apply with respect to travel performed after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 1987].”
