---
title: "§ 12493. Department of Housing and Urban Development Gender-based Violence Prevention Office and Violence Against Women Act Director"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12493"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12493"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41413](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41413), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVI/s602), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 883](/us/stat/136/883).)"
---
# § 12493. Department of Housing and Urban Development Gender-based Violence Prevention Office and Violence Against Women Act Director

##### § 12493. Department of Housing and Urban Development Gender-based Violence Prevention Office and Violence Against Women Act Director

(a) Establishment The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall establish a Gender-based Violence Prevention Office with a Violence Against Women Act Director (in this section referred to as the “Director”).

(b) Duties The Director shall, among other duties—

(1) support implementation of this subpart;

(2) coordinate with Federal agencies on legislation, implementation, and other issues affecting the housing provisions under this part, as well as other issues related to advancing housing protections for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(3) coordinate with State and local governments and agencies, including State housing finance agencies, regarding advancing housing protections and access to housing for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(4) ensure that technical assistance and support are provided to each appropriate agency and housing providers regarding implementation of this part, as well as other issues related to advancing housing protections for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including compliance with this part;

(5) implement internal systems to track, monitor, and address compliance failures; and

(6) address the housing needs and barriers faced by victims of sexual assault, as well as sexual coercion and sexual harassment by a public housing agency or owner or manager of housing assisted under a covered housing program.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41413](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41413), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVI/s602), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 883](/us/stat/136/883).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVI/s602), which directed the addition of this section to chapter 2 of subtitle N of title IV of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 ([34 U.S.C. 12491](/us/usc/t34/s12491) et seq.), was executed by adding this section to chapter 2 of subtitle N of title IV of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.
