---
title: "§ 2305. Powers of Atomic Energy Commission"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 11, § 111, [69 Stat. 483](/us/stat/69/483).)"
---
# § 2305. Powers of Atomic Energy Commission

##### § 2305. Powers of Atomic Energy Commission

The Commission shall have all powers conferred by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [[42 U.S.C. 2011](/us/usc/t42/s2011) et seq.], including the power to make, promulgate, issue, rescind, and amend such rules, regulations, and delegations as may be appropriate to carry out the provisions of this chapter and shall be subject to the limitations contained in chapter 14 of that Act [[42 U.S.C. 2201](/us/usc/t42/s2201) et seq.]. Nothing contained in this chapter shall impair the powers vested in the Commission by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or any other law.

*([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 11, § 111, [69 Stat. 483](/us/stat/69/483).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 919](/us/stat/68/919), which is classified principally to chapter 23 (§ 2011 et seq.) of this title. Chapter 14 of that Act, referred to in text, is classified to subchapter XIII (§ 2201 et seq.) of division A of chapter 23 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2011) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.
