---
title: "§ 21503. Angel Watch Center"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–119, § 4](/us/pl/114/119/s4), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 17](/us/stat/130/17).)"
---
# § 21503. Angel Watch Center

##### § 21503. Angel Watch Center

(a) Establishment Not later than 90 days after February 8, 2016, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish within the Child Exploitation Investigations Unit of U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement a Center, to be known as the “Angel Watch Center”, to carry out the activities specified in subsection (e).

(b) Incoming notification

(1) In general The Center may receive incoming notifications concerning individuals seeking to enter the United States who have committed offenses of a sexual nature.

(2) Notification Upon receiving an incoming notification under paragraph (1), the Center shall—

(A) immediately share all information received relating to the individual with the Department of Justice; and

(B) share all relevant information relating to the individual with other Federal, State, and local agencies and entities, as appropriate.

(3) Collaboration The Secretary of Homeland Security shall collaborate with the Attorney General to establish a process for the receipt, dissemination, and categorization of information relating to individuals and specific offenses provided herein.

(c) Leadership The Center shall be headed by the Assistant Secretary of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, in collaboration with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State.

(d) Members The Center shall consist of the following:

(1) The Assistant Secretary of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

(2) The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

(3) Individuals who are designated as analysts in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement or U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

(4) Individuals who are designated as program managers in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement or U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

(e) Activities

(1) In general In carrying out this section, the Center shall, using all relevant databases, systems and sources of information, not later than 48 hours before scheduled departure, or as soon as practicable before scheduled departure—

(A) determine if individuals traveling abroad are listed on the National Sex Offender Registry;

(B) review the United States Marshals Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center case management system or other system that provides access to a list of individuals who have provided advanced notice of international travel to identify any individual who meets the criteria described in subparagraph (A) and is not in a system reviewed pursuant to this subparagraph; and

(C) provide a list of individuals identified under subparagraph (B) to the United States Marshals Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center to determine compliance with title I of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 ([42 U.S.C. 16901](/us/usc/t42/s16901) et seq.).11 See References in Text note below.

(2) Provision of information to Center Twenty-four hours before the intended travel, or thereafter, not later than 72 hours after the intended travel, the United States Marshals Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall provide, to the Angel Watch Center, information pertaining to any sex offender described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1).

(3) Advance notice to destination country

(A) In general The Center may transmit relevant information to the destination country about a sex offender if—

(i) the individual is identified by a review conducted under paragraph (1)(B) as having provided advanced notice of international travel; or

(ii) after completing the activities described in paragraph (1), the Center receives information pertaining to a sex offender under paragraph (2).

(B) Exceptions The Center may immediately transmit relevant information on a sex offender to the destination country if—

(i) the Center becomes aware that a sex offender is traveling outside of the United States within 24 hours of intended travel, and simultaneously completes the activities described in paragraph (1); or

(ii) the Center has not received a transmission pursuant to paragraph (2), provided it is not more than 24 hours before the intended travel.

(C) Corrections Upon receiving information that a notification sent by the Center regarding an individual was inaccurate, the Center shall immediately—

(i) send a notification of correction to the destination country notified;

(ii) correct all data collected pursuant to paragraph (6); and

(iii) if applicable, notify the Secretary of State for purposes of the passport review and marking processes described in [section 212b of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s212b).

(D) Form The notification under this paragraph may be transmitted through such means as are determined appropriate by the Center, including through U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement attaches.

(4) Memorandum of Agreement Not later than 6 months after February 8, 2016, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Attorney General to facilitate the activities of the Angel Watch Center in collaboration with the United States Marshals Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center, including the exchange of information, the sharing of personnel, access to information and databases in accordance with paragraph (1)(B), and the establishment of a process to share notifications from the international community in accordance with subsection (b)(1).

(5) Passport application review

(A) In general The Center shall provide a written determination to the Department of State regarding the status of an individual as a covered sex offender (as defined in [section 212b of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s212b)) when appropriate.

(B) Effective date Subparagraph (A) shall take effect upon certification by the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Attorney General that the process developed and reported to the appropriate congressional committees under [section 21507 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s21507) has been successfully implemented.

(6) Collection of data The Center shall collect all relevant data, including—

(A) a record of each notification sent under paragraph (3);

(B) the response of the destination country to notifications under paragraph (3), where available;

(C) any decision not to transmit a notification abroad, to the extent practicable;

(D) the number of transmissions made under subparagraphs (A),(B), and (C) of paragraph (3) and the countries to which they are transmitted, respectively;

(E) whether the information was transmitted to the destination country before scheduled commencement of sex offender travel; and

(F) any other information deemed necessary and appropriate by the Secretary of Homeland Security.

(7) Complaint review

(A) In general The Center shall—

(i) establish a mechanism to receive complaints from individuals affected by erroneous notifications under this section;

(ii) ensure that any complaint is promptly reviewed; and

(iii) in the case of a complaint that involves a notification sent by another Federal Government entity, notify the individual of the contact information for the appropriate entity and forward the complaint to the appropriate entity for prompt review and response pursuant to this section.

(B) Response to complaints The Center shall, as applicable—

(i) provide the individual with notification in writing that the individual was erroneously subjected to international notification;

(ii) take action to ensure that a notification or information regarding the individual is not erroneously transmitted to a destination country in the future; and

(iii) submit an additional written notification to the individual explaining why a notification or information regarding the individual was erroneously transmitted to the destination country and describing the actions that the Center has taken or is taking under clause (ii).

(C) Public awareness The Center shall make publicly available information on how an individual may submit a complaint under this section.

(D) Reporting requirement The Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit an annual report to the appropriate congressional committees (as defined in [section 21507 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s21507)) that includes—

(i) the number of instances in which a notification or information was erroneously transmitted to the destination country of an individual under paragraph (3); and

(ii) the actions taken to prevent similar errors from occurring in the future.

(8) Annual review process The Center shall establish, in coordination with the Attorney General, the Secretary of State, and INTERPOL, an annual review process to ensure that there is appropriate coordination and collaboration, including consistent procedures governing the activities authorized under this chapter, in carrying out this chapter.

(9) Information required The Center shall make available to the United States Marshals Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center information on travel by sex offenders in a timely manner.

(f) Definition In this section, the term “sex offender” means—

(1) a covered sex offender; or

(2) an individual required to register under the sex offender registration program of any jurisdiction or included in the National Sex Offender Registry, on the basis of an offense against a minor.

*([Pub. L. 114–119, § 4](/us/pl/114/119/s4), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 17](/us/stat/130/17).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, referred to in subsec. (e)(1)(C), is [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 587](/us/stat/120/587). Title I of the Act, known as the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act, was classified principally to subchapter I (§ 16901 et seq.) of chapter 151 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as subchapter I (§ 20901 et seq.) of chapter 209 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (e)(8), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–119](/us/pl/114/119), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 15](/us/stat/130/15), known as the International Megan’s Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of Traveling Sex Offenders, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2016 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16935b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16935b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
