---
title: "§ 262p–14. Support to enhance the capacity of fund members to evaluate the legal and financial terms of sovereign debt contracts"
identifier: "USC-T22-S262p–14"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section262p–14"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–118, title XVI, § 1630](/us/pl/95/118/tXVI/s1630), as added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXI, § 6103(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXI/s6103/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2384](/us/stat/135/2384).)"
---
# § 262p–14. Support to enhance the capacity of fund members to evaluate the legal and financial terms of sovereign debt contracts

##### § 262p–14. Support to enhance the capacity of fund members to evaluate the legal and financial terms of sovereign debt contracts

The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund to use the voice and vote of the United States to advocate that the Fund promote international standards and best practices with respect to sovereign debt contracts and provide technical assistance to Fund members, and in particular to lower middle-income countries and countries eligible to receive assistance from the International Development Association, seeking to enhance their capacity to evaluate the legal and financial terms of sovereign debt contracts with multilateral, bilateral, and private sector creditors.

*([Pub. L. 95–118, title XVI, § 1630](/us/pl/95/118/tXVI/s1630), as added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXI, § 6103(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXI/s6103/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2384](/us/stat/135/2384).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 6103(c) of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s6103/c), see Termination Date note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination Date

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXI, § 6103(c)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXI/s6103/c), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2385](/us/stat/135/2385), as amended by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. E, title VI, § 5607(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dE/tVI/s5607/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1605](/us/stat/139/1605), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall have no force or effect after the 10-year period that begins with the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 27, 2021].”

#### Definitions

The definitions in [section 262p–5 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262p–5) apply to this section.
