---
title: "§ 2206. Regulations"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–591, § 2(a)](/us/pl/95/591/s2/a), Nov. 4, 1978, [92 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/92/2527).)"
---
# § 2206. Regulations

##### § 2206. Regulations

(1) provisions for advance public notice and description of any Presidential records scheduled for disposal pursuant to section 2203(f)(3); 11 See References in Text note below.

(2) provisions for providing notice to the former President when materials to which access would otherwise be restricted pursuant to section 2204(a) are to be made available in accordance with section 2205(2);

(3) provisions for notice by the Archivist to the former President when the disclosure of particular documents may adversely affect any rights and privileges which the former President may have; and

(4) provisions for establishing procedures for consultation between the Archivist and appropriate Federal agencies regarding materials which may be subject to [section 552(b)(7) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/b/7), United States Code.

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–591, § 2(a)](/us/pl/95/591/s2/a), Nov. 4, 1978, [92 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/92/2527).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 2203(f)(3), referred to in par. (1), was redesignated [section 2203(g)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2203/g/3) by [Pub. L. 113–187, § 2(c)(3)](/us/pl/113/187/s2/c/3), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2006](/us/stat/128/2006), and subsequently redesignated [section 2203(g)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2203/g/4) by [Pub. L. 114–136, § 3(1)](/us/pl/114/136/s3/1), Mar. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 305](/us/stat/130/305).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective with respect to Presidential records created during a term of office of President beginning on or after Jan. 20, 1981, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 95–591](/us/pl/95/591/s3), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2201).
