---
title: "§ 2883. Department of Defense Housing Funds"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2883"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2883"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–106, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2801(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/106/dB/tXXVIII/s2801/a/1), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 548](/us/stat/110/548); amended [Pub. L. 104–201, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2804](/us/pl/104/201/dB/tXXVIII/s2804), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2788](/us/stat/110/2788); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2802(b)](/us/pl/106/65/dB/tXXVIII/s2802/b), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 848](/us/stat/113/848); [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, § 1031(a)(51)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tX/s10"
---
# § 2883. Department of Defense Housing Funds

##### § 2883. Department of Defense Housing Funds

(a) Establishment.— There are hereby established on the books of the Treasury the following accounts:

(1) The Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund.

(2) The Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund.

(b) Commingling of Funds Prohibited.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense shall administer each Fund separately.

(2) Amounts in the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund may be used only to carry out activities under this subchapter with respect to military family housing.

(3) Amounts in the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund may be used only to carry out activities under this subchapter with respect to military unaccompanied housing.

(c) Credits to Funds.—

(1) There shall be credited to the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund the following:

(A) Amounts authorized for and appropriated to that Fund.

(B) Subject to subsection (f), any amounts that the Secretary of Defense transfers, in such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts, to that Fund from amounts authorized and appropriated to the Department of Defense for the acquisition, improvement, or construction of military family housing.

(C) Proceeds from the conveyance or lease of property or facilities under [section 2878 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2878) for the purpose of carrying out activities under this subchapter with respect to military family housing.

(D) Income derived from any activities under this subchapter with respect to military family housing, including interest on loans made under [section 2873 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2873), income and gains realized from investments under [section 2875 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2875), and any return of capital invested as part of such investments.

(E) Any amounts that the Secretary of the Navy transfers to that Fund pursuant to [section 2814(i)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2814/i/3), subject to the restrictions on the use of the transferred amounts specified in that section.

(F) Any amounts that the Secretary concerned transfers to that Fund pursuant to [section 2869 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2869).

(2) There shall be credited to the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund the following:

(A) Amounts authorized for and appropriated to that Fund.

(B) Subject to subsection (f), any amounts that the Secretary of Defense transfers, in such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts, to that Fund from amounts authorized and appropriated to the Department of Defense for the acquisition or construction of military unaccompanied housing.

(C) Proceeds from the conveyance or lease of property or facilities under [section 2878 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2878) for the purpose of carrying out activities under this subchapter with respect to military unaccompanied housing.

(D) Income derived from any activities under this subchapter with respect to military unaccompanied housing, including interest on loans made under [section 2873 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2873), income and gains realized from investments under [section 2875 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2875), and any return of capital invested as part of such investments.

(E) Any amounts that the Secretary of the Navy transfers to that Fund pursuant to [section 2814(i)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2814/i/3), subject to the restrictions on the use of the transferred amounts specified in that section.

(F) Any amounts that the Secretary concerned transfers to that Fund pursuant to [section 2869 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2869).

(d) Use of Amounts in Funds.—

(1)

(A) In such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts and except as provided in subsection (e), the Secretary of Defense may use amounts in the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund to carry out activities under this subchapter with respect to military family housing, including activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of contracts entered into under the authority of this subchapter. The Secretary may also use for expenses of activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of such contracts funds that are otherwise available to the Department of Defense for such types of expenses.

(B) The Secretary of Defense shall require that eligible entities receiving amounts from the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund prioritize the use of such amounts for expenditures related to asset recapitalization, operating expenses, and debt payments before other program management-incentive fee expenditures. In the case of asset recapitalization, the primary purpose of the expenditures must be to sustain existing housing units owned or managed by the eligible entity or for which the eligible entity is otherwise responsible.

(2) In such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts and except as provided in subsection (e), the Secretary of Defense may use amounts in the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund to carry out activities under this subchapter with respect to military unaccompanied housing, including activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of contracts entered into under the authority of this subchapter. The Secretary may also use for expenses of activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of such contracts funds that are otherwise available to the Department of Defense for such types of expenses.

(3) Amounts made available under this subsection shall remain available until expended. The Secretary of Defense may transfer amounts made available under this subsection to the Secretaries of the military departments to permit such Secretaries to carry out the activities for which such amounts may be used.

(e) Limitation on Obligations.—

(1) The Secretary may not incur an obligation under a contract or other agreement entered into under this subchapter in excess of the unobligated balance, at the time the contract is entered into, of the Fund required to be used to satisfy the obligation.

(2) The Funds established under subsection (a) shall be the sole source of funds for activities carried out under this subchapter.

(f) Notification Required for Transfers.— A transfer of appropriated amounts to a Fund under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) or subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subsection (c) may be made only after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date the Secretary of Defense submits notice of, and justification for, the transfer to the appropriate committees of Congress in an electronic medium pursuant to [section 480 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s480).

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–106, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2801(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/106/dB/tXXVIII/s2801/a/1), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 548](/us/stat/110/548); amended [Pub. L. 104–201, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2804](/us/pl/104/201/dB/tXXVIII/s2804), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2788](/us/stat/110/2788); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2802(b)](/us/pl/106/65/dB/tXXVIII/s2802/b), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 848](/us/stat/113/848); [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, § 1031(a)(51)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tX/s1031/a/51), div. B, title XXVIII, § 2805(c), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1603](/us/stat/117/1603), 1721; [Pub. L. 108–375, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2805(a)](/us/pl/108/375/dB/tXXVIII/s2805/a), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2122](/us/stat/118/2122); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2806(a)](/us/pl/109/163/dB/tXXVIII/s2806/a), (b), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3507](/us/stat/119/3507); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. B, title XXVII, § 2705](/us/pl/110/181/dB/tXXVII/s2705), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 533](/us/stat/122/533); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. B, title XXVII, § 2711(c)(5)](/us/pl/112/239/dB/tXXVII/s2711/c/5), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2144](/us/stat/126/2144); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2801(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/91/dB/tXXVIII/s2801/d/2), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1844](/us/stat/131/1844); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2813(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dB/tXXVIII/s2813/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4327](/us/stat/134/4327).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) designated existing provisions as subpar. (A) and added subpar. (B).

2017—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) substituted “14-day period” for “30-day period” and struck out “written” before “notice” and “or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notice and justification is provided” before “in an electronic medium”.

2013—Subsec. (c)(1)(G). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 2711(c)(5)(A)(i)](/us/pl/112/239/s2711/c/5/A/i), struck out subpar. (G), which read as follows: “Subject to subsection (f), any amounts that the Secretary of Defense transfers to that Fund from amounts in the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005.”

Subsec. (c)(2)(G). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 2711(c)(5)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/112/239/s2711/c/5/A/ii), struck out subpar. (G), which read as follows: “Subject to subsection (f), any amounts that the Secretary of Defense transfers to that Fund from amounts in the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005.”

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 2711(c)(5)(B)](/us/pl/112/239/s2711/c/5/B), struck out “or (G)” after “subparagraph (B)” in two places in first sentence, and struck out second sentence which read: “In addition, the notice required in connection with a transfer under subparagraph (G) of paragraph (1) or subparagraph (G) of paragraph (2) shall include a certification that the amounts to be transferred from the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005 were specified in the conference report to accompany the most recent Military Construction Authorization Act.”

2008—Subsec. (c)(1)(G). [Pub. L. 110–181, § 2705(a)(1)](/us/pl/110/181/s2705/a/1), added subpar. (G).

Subsec. (c)(2)(G). [Pub. L. 110–181, § 2705(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/181/s2705/a/2), added subpar. (G).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 110–181, § 2705(b)](/us/pl/110/181/s2705/b), substituted “subparagraph (B) or (G) of paragraph (1) or subparagraph (B) or (G) of paragraph (2)” for “paragraph (1)(B) or (2)(B)” and inserted at end “In addition, the notice required in connection with a transfer under subparagraph (G) of paragraph (1) or subparagraph (G) of paragraph (2) shall include a certification that the amounts to be transferred from the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005 were specified in the conference report to accompany the most recent Military Construction Authorization Act.”

2006—Subsec. (c)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 2806(b)](/us/pl/109/163/s2806/b), substituted “acquisition, improvement, or construction” for “acquisition or construction”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 2806(a)](/us/pl/109/163/s2806/a), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

2004—Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 108–375](/us/pl/108/375) struck out heading and text of subsec. (g). Text read as follows: “The total value in budget authority of all contracts and investments undertaken using the authorities provided in this subchapter shall not exceed—

“(1) $850,000,000 for the acquisition or construction of military family housing; and

“(2) $150,000,000 for the acquisition or construction of military unaccompanied housing.”

2003—Subsec. (c)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 2805(c)(1)](/us/pl/108/136/s2805/c/1), added subpar. (F).

Subsec. (c)(2)(F). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 2805(c)(2)](/us/pl/108/136/s2805/c/2), added subpar. (F).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 1031(a)(51)](/us/pl/108/136/s1031/a/51), inserted before period at end “or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which a copy of the notice and justification is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to [section 480 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s480)”.

1999—Subsec. (c)(1)(E). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 2802(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/65/s2802/b/1), added subpar. (E).

Subsec. (c)(2)(E). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 2802(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/65/s2802/b/2), added subpar. (E).

1996—Subsec. (d)(1), (2). [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) inserted at end “The Secretary may also use for expenses of activities required in connection with the planning, execution, and administration of such contracts funds that are otherwise available to the Department of Defense for such types of expenses.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2813(b)](/us/pl/116/283/dB/tXXVIII/s2813/b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4327](/us/stat/134/4327), provided that: “The requirements set forth in subparagraph (B) of [section 2883(d)(1) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2883/d/1), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply to appropriate legal documents entered into or renewed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 1, 2021] between the Secretary of a military department and a landlord regarding privatized military housing. In this subsection, the terms ‘landlord’ and ‘privatized military housing’ have the meanings given those terms in section 3001(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of [Public Law 116–92](/us/pl/116/92); [133 Stat. 1916](/us/stat/133/1916); [10 U.S.C. 2821](/us/usc/t10/s2821) note).”

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) effective on the later of Oct. 1, 2013, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2014 (div. J of [Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76), approved Jan. 17, 2014), see [section 2711(d) of Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239/s2711/d), set out as a note under [section 2701 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2701).
