---
title: "§ 4321. Board of Advisers"
identifier: "USC-T18-S4321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section4321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 856](/us/stat/62/856); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 223(n)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s223/n), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2030](/us/stat/98/2030).)"
---
# § 4321. Board of Advisers

##### § 4321. Board of Advisers

Four citizens of the United States of prominence and distinction, appointed by the President to serve without compensation, for terms of four years, together with the Attorney General of the United States, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons and the warden of the Federal Reformatory for Women, shall constitute a Board of Advisers of said Federal Reformatory for Women, which shall recommend ways and means for the discipline and training of the inmates, to fit them for suitable employment upon their discharge.

Any person chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed only for the unexpired term of the citizen whom he shall succeed.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 856](/us/stat/62/856); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 223(n)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s223/n), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2030](/us/stat/98/2030).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 816 ([June 7, 1924, ch. 287, § 7](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch287/s7), [43 Stat. 474](/us/stat/43/474); [May 14, 1930, ch. 274, § 1](/us/act/1930-05-14/ch274/s1), [46 Stat. 325](/us/stat/46/325)).

The provisions relating to the appointment of the board in the first instance were omitted as executed.

“Warden” was substituted for “superintendent” and “Federal Reformatory for Women” for “United States Industrial Institution for Women” to conform to existing administrative usage.

Minor changes were made in translation, phraseology, and arrangement.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) struck out “parole or” before “discharge” at end of first par.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) effective Nov. 1, 1987, and applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of such amendment, see [section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s235/a/1), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3551 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3551).
