---
title: "§ 1677b–1. Currency conversion"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1677b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1677b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 773A, as added [Pub. L. 103–465, title II, § 225(a)](/us/pl/103/465/tII/s225/a), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4886](/us/stat/108/4886).)"
---
# § 1677b–1. Currency conversion

##### § 1677b–1. Currency conversion

(a) In general In an antidumping proceeding under this subtitle, the administering authority shall convert foreign currencies into United States dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the date of sale of the subject merchandise, except that, if it is established that a currency transaction on forward markets is directly linked to an export sale under consideration, the exchange rate specified with respect to such currency in the forward sale agreement shall be used to convert the foreign currency. Fluctuations in exchange rates shall be ignored.

(b) Sustained movement in foreign currency value In an investigation under part II of this subtitle, if there is a sustained movement in the value of the foreign currency relative to the United States dollar, the administering authority shall allow exporters at least 60 days to adjust their export prices to reflect such sustained movement.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 773A, as added [Pub. L. 103–465, title II, § 225(a)](/us/pl/103/465/tII/s225/a), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4886](/us/stat/108/4886).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective, except as otherwise provided, on the date on which the WTO Agreement enters into force with respect to the United States (Jan. 1, 1995), and applicable with respect to investigations, reviews, and inquiries initiated and petitions filed under specified provisions of this chapter after such date, see [section 291 of Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465/s291), set out as an Effective Date of 1994 Amendment note under [section 1671 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671).
