---
title: "§ 1703. Requirements respecting sale or lease of lots"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–448, title XIV, § 1404](/us/pl/90/448/tXIV/s1404), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 591](/us/stat/82/591); [Pub. L. 93–383, title VIII, § 812(c)(1)](/us/pl/93/383/tVIII/s812/c/1), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 737](/us/stat/88/737); [Pub. L. 96–153, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/96/153/tIV/s403), Dec. 21, 1979, [93 Stat. 1127](/us/stat/93/1127).)"
---
# § 1703. Requirements respecting sale or lease of lots

##### § 1703. Requirements respecting sale or lease of lots

(a) Prohibited activities It shall be unlawful for any developer or agent, directly or indirectly, to make use of any means or instruments of transportation or communication in interstate commerce, or of the mails—

(1) with respect to the sale or lease of any lot not exempt under [section 1702 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1702)—

(A) to sell or lease any lot unless a statement of record with respect to such lot is in effect in accordance with [section 1706 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1706);

(B) to sell or lease any lot unless a printed property report, meeting the requirements of [section 1707 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1707), has been furnished to the purchaser or lessee in advance of the signing of any contract or agreement by such purchaser or lessee;

(C) to sell or lease any lot where any part of the statement of record or the property report contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein pursuant to sections 1704 through 1707 of this title or any regulations thereunder; or

(D) to display or deliver to prospective purchasers or lessees advertising and promotional material which is inconsistent with information required to be disclosed in the property report; or

(2) with respect to the sale or lease, or offer to sell or lease, any lot not exempt under [section 1702(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1702/a)—

(A) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;

(B) to obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact, or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made (in light of the circumstances in which they were made and within the context of the overall offer and sale or lease) not misleading, with respect to any information pertinent to the lot or subdivision;

(C) to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon a purchaser; or

(D) to represent that roads, sewers, water, gas, or electric service, or recreational amenities will be provided or completed by the developer without stipulating in the contract of sale or lease that such services or amenities will be provided or completed.

(b) Revocation of nonexempt contract or agreement at option of purchaser or lessee; time limit Any contract or agreement for the sale or lease of a lot not exempt under [section 1702 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1702) may be revoked at the option of the purchaser or lessee until midnight of the seventh day following the signing of such contract or agreement or until such later time as may be required pursuant to applicable State laws, and such contract or agreement shall clearly provide this right.

(c) Revocation of contract or agreement at option of purchaser or lessee where required property report not supplied In the case of any contract or agreement for the sale or lease of a lot for which a property report is required by this chapter and the property report has not been given to the purchaser or lessee in advance of his or her signing such contract or agreement, such contract or agreement may be revoked at the option of the purchaser or lessee within two years from the date of such signing, and such contract or agreement shall clearly provide this right.

(d) Additional authority for revocation of nonexempt contract or agreement at option of purchaser or lessee; time limit; applicability Any contract or agreement which is for the sale or lease of a lot not exempt under [section 1702 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1702) and which does not provide—

may be revoked at the option of the purchaser or lessee for two years from the date of the signing of such contract or agreement. This subsection shall not apply to the sale of a lot for which, within one hundred and eighty days after the signing of the sales contract, the purchaser receives a warranty deed (or, where such deed is not commonly used in the jurisdiction where the lot is located, a deed or grant that warrants at least that the grantor has not conveyed the lot to another person and that the lot is free from encumbrances made by the grantor or any other person claiming by, through, or under him or her).

(1) a description of the lot which makes such lot clearly identifiable and which is in a form acceptable for recording by the appropriate public official responsible for maintaining land records in the jurisdiction in which the lot is located;

(2) that, in the event of a default or breach of the contract or agreement by the purchaser or lessee, the seller or lessor (or successor thereof) will provide the purchaser or lessee with written notice of such default or breach and of the opportunity, which shall be given such purchaser or lessee, to remedy such default or breach within twenty days after the date of the receipt of such notice; and

(3) that, if the purchaser or lessee loses rights and interest in the lot as a result of a default or breach of the contract or agreement which occurs after the purchaser or lessee has paid 15 per centum of the purchase price of the lot, excluding any interest owed under the contract or agreement, the seller or lessor (or successor thereof) shall refund to such purchaser or lessee any amount which remains after subtracting (A) 15 per centum of the purchase price of the lot, excluding any interest owed under the contract or agreement, or the amount of damages incurred by the seller or lessor (or successor thereof) as a result of such breach, whichever is greater, from (B) the amount paid by the purchaser or lessee with respect to the purchase price of the lot, excluding any interest paid under the contract or agreement,

(e) Repayment of purchaser or lessee upon revocation of all money paid under contract or agreement to seller or lessor If a contract or agreement is revoked pursuant to subsection (b), (c), or (d), if the purchaser or lessee tenders to the seller or lessor (or successor thereof) an instrument conveying his or her rights and interests in the lot, and if the rights and interests and the lot are in a condition which is substantially similar to the condition in which they were conveyed or purported to be conveyed to the purchaser or lessee, such purchaser or lessee shall be entitled to all money paid by him or her under such contract or agreement.

*([Pub. L. 90–448, title XIV, § 1404](/us/pl/90/448/tXIV/s1404), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 591](/us/stat/82/591); [Pub. L. 93–383, title VIII, § 812(c)(1)](/us/pl/93/383/tVIII/s812/c/1), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 737](/us/stat/88/737); [Pub. L. 96–153, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/96/153/tIV/s403), Dec. 21, 1979, [93 Stat. 1127](/us/stat/93/1127).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1979—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 96–153](/us/pl/96/153) substituted provisions setting forth criteria in par. (1) with respect to the sale or lease of any lot not exempt under [section 1702 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1702), for provisions relating to the sale or lease of any lot in any subdivision with accompanying required statement of record and printed property report, and in par. (2) with respect to the sale or lease, or offer to sell or lease, any lot not exempt under [section 1702(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1702/a), for provisions relating to the sale or lease, or offer to sell or lease, any lot in a subdivision through the use of specified prohibited activities.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 96–153](/us/pl/96/153) substituted provisions relating to revocation of contracts or agreements for the sale or lease of a lot not exempt under [section 1702 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1702), for provisions relating to voidability of contracts or agreements for the purchase or lease of lots in subdivisions covered by this chapter.

Subsecs. (c) to (e). [Pub. L. 96–153](/us/pl/96/153) added subsecs. (c) to (e).

1974—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 383 substituted “until midnight of the third business day following the consummation of the transaction” for “within forty-eight hours” and struck out provisions relating to exceptions of contracts or agreements stipulating to the nonapplicability of the revocation authority to certain purchasers.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–153](/us/pl/96/153) effective on effective date of regulations implementing such amendment, but in no case later than six months following Dec. 21, 1979, see [section 410 of Pub. L. 96–153](/us/pl/96/153/s410), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1701).

#### Effective Date of 1974 Amendment

[Pub. L. 93–383, title VIII, § 812(c)(2)](/us/pl/93/383/tVIII/s812/c/2), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 737](/us/stat/88/737), provided that: “The amendments made by paragraph (1) [amending this section] shall be effective sixty days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 22, 1974].”

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon the expiration of two hundred and seventy days after Aug. 1, 1968, see [section 1423 of Pub. L. 90–448](/us/pl/90/448/s1423), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1701).
