---
title: "§ 7504. Travel and expense reimbursement"
identifier: "USC-T46-S7504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section7504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–640, § 10(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/99/640/s10/b/2/A), Nov. 10, 1986, [100 Stat. 3549](/us/stat/100/3549); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8513(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4761](/us/stat/134/4761).)"
---
# § 7504. Travel and expense reimbursement

##### § 7504. Travel and expense reimbursement

When a requirement to qualify for the issuance of, or endorsement on, a certificate, license, or document under this part is administered at a place at the request of an applicant or an applicant’s representative, the applicant or representative may reimburse the Secretary for the travel and subsistence expenses incurred by the personnel assigned to perform the administration of the requirement. Amounts received as reimbursement under this section shall be credited to the appropriation for operations and support of the Coast Guard.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–640, § 10(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/99/640/s10/b/2/A), Nov. 10, 1986, [100 Stat. 3549](/us/stat/100/3549); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8513(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4761](/us/stat/134/4761).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “operations and support” for “operating expenses”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
