---
title: "§ 794. Official reports"
identifier: "USC-T48-S794"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section794"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, § 11](/us/act/1917-03-02/ch145/s11), [39 Stat. 955](/us/stat/39/955); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158).)"
---
# § 794. Official reports

##### § 794. Official reports

All reports required by law to be made by the governor or heads of departments to any official of the United States shall be made to an executive department of the Government of the United States to be designated by the President, and the President is authorized to place all matters pertaining to the government of Puerto Rico in the jurisdiction of such department.

*([Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, § 11](/us/act/1917-03-02/ch145/s11), [39 Stat. 955](/us/stat/39/955); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act July 15, 1909, ch. 4, § 2](/us/act/1909-07-15/ch4/s2), [36 Stat. 11](/us/stat/36/11).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Puerto Rico” substituted in text for “Porto Rico” pursuant to act May 17, 1932, which is classified to [section 731a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s731a).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 9383. Coordination of Functions and Policies of Federal Civil Agencies in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands

Ex. Ord. No. 9383, eff. Oct. 5, 1943, 8 F.R. 13781, provided:

1. Each Federal civil agency performing services in Puerto Rico or in the Virgin Islands shall make current reports to the Secretary of the Interior concerning the work of such agency in such manner and form and at such times as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.

2. The Secretary of the Interior shall make such recommendations to the heads of Federal civil agencies so reporting as may in his judgment serve to correlate the work of such agencies in Puerto Rico and in the Virgin Islands, eliminate unessential Federal activities, assist insular agencies to assume increasing responsibility in civil administration, meet more efficiently the needs of the people of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands for essential Federal services, and implement the policies of the United States with respect to its island possessions.

3. The Secretary of the Interior shall from time to time report to the President and to the Congress concerning the actions taken pursuant to this order.

4. This order shall not be applicable to United States District Judges, United States Attorneys, and United States Marshals.
