---
title: "§ 2319. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2319"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2319"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–618, title II, § 247](/us/pl/93/618/tII/s247), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2028](/us/stat/88/2028); [Pub. L. 97–35, title XXV, § 2511](/us/pl/97/35/tXXV/s2511), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 888](/us/stat/95/888); [Pub. L. 99–272, title XIII](/us/pl/99/272/tXIII), §§ 13004(b), 13005(b), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 303](/us/stat/100/303); [Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I](/us/pl/111/5/dB/tI), §§ 1801(a), 1830(a)(2), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 367](/us/stat/123/367), 384; [Pub. L. 112–40, title II]"
---
# § 2319. Definitions

##### § 2319. Definitions

(1) The term “adversely affected employment” means employment in a firm or appropriate subdivision of a firm, if workers of such firm or subdivision are eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under this part.

(2) The term “adversely affected worker” means an individual who, because of lack of work in adversely affected employment—

(A) has been totally or partially separated from such employment, or

(B) has been totally separated from employment with the firm in a subdivision of which such adversely affected employment exists.

(3) Repealed. [Pub. L. 97–35, title XXV, § 2511(1)](/us/pl/97/35/tXXV/s2511/1), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 888](/us/stat/95/888).

(4) The term “average weekly wage” means one-thirteenth of the total wages paid to an individual in the high quarter. For purposes of this computation, the high quarter shall be that quarter in which the individual’s total wages were highest among the first 4 of the last 5 completed calendar quarters immediately before the quarter in which occurs the week with respect to which the computation is made. Such week shall be the week in which total separation occurred, or, in cases where partial separation is claimed, an appropriate week, as defined in regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

(5) The term “average weekly hours” means the average hours worked by the individual (excluding overtime) in the employment from which he has been or claims to have been separated in the 52 weeks (excluding weeks during which the individual was sick or on vacation) preceding the week specified in the last sentence of paragraph (4).

(6) The term “partial separation” means, with respect to an individual who has not been totally separated, that he has had—

(A) his hours of work reduced to 80 percent or less of his average weekly hours in adversely affected employment, and

(B) his wages reduced to 80 percent or less of his average weekly wage in such adversely affected employment.

(7) Repealed. [Pub. L. 97–35, title XXV, § 2511(1)](/us/pl/97/35/tXXV/s2511/1), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 888](/us/stat/95/888).

(8) The term “State” includes the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and the term “United States” when used in the geographical sense includes such Commonwealth.

(9) The term “State agency” means the agency of the State which administers the State law.

(10) The term “State law” means the unemployment insurance law of the State approved by the Secretary of Labor under [section 3304 of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s3304).

(11) The term “total separation” means the layoff or severance of an individual from employment with a firm in which, or in a subdivision of which, adversely affected employment exists.

(12) The term “unemployment insurance” means the unemployment compensation payable to an individual under any State law or Federal unemployment compensation law, including chapter 85 of title 5 and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act [[45 U.S.C. 351](/us/usc/t45/s351) et seq.]. The terms “regular compensation”, “additional compensation”, and “extended compensation” have the same respective meanings that are given them in section 205(2), (3), and (4) of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 ([26 U.S.C. 3304](/us/usc/t26/s3304) note).

(13) The term “week” means a week as defined in the applicable State law.

(14) The term “week of unemployment” means a week of total, part-total, or partial unemployment as determined under the applicable State law or Federal unemployment insurance law.

(15) The term “benefit period” means, with respect to an individual—

(A) the benefit year and any ensuing period, as determined under applicable State law, during which the individual is eligible for regular compensation, additional compensation, or extended compensation, or

(B) the equivalent to such a benefit year or ensuing period provided for under the applicable Federal unemployment insurance law.

(16) The term “on-the-job training” means training provided by an employer to an individual who is employed by the employer.

(17)

(A) The term “job search program” means a job search workshop or job finding club.

(B) The term “job search workshop” means a short (1 to 3 days) seminar designed to provide participants with knowledge that will enable the participants to find jobs. Subjects are not limited to, but should include, labor market information, resume writing, interviewing techniques, and techniques for finding job openings.

(C) The term “job finding club” means a job search workshop which includes a period (1 to 2 weeks) of structured, supervised activity in which participants attempt to obtain jobs.

*([Pub. L. 93–618, title II, § 247](/us/pl/93/618/tII/s247), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2028](/us/stat/88/2028); [Pub. L. 97–35, title XXV, § 2511](/us/pl/97/35/tXXV/s2511), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 888](/us/stat/95/888); [Pub. L. 99–272, title XIII](/us/pl/99/272/tXIII), §§ 13004(b), 13005(b), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 303](/us/stat/100/303); [Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I](/us/pl/111/5/dB/tI), §§ 1801(a), 1830(a)(2), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 367](/us/stat/123/367), 384; [Pub. L. 112–40, title II](/us/pl/112/40/tII), §§ 201(b), (c), 211(b), Oct. 21, 2011, [125 Stat. 403](/us/stat/125/403); [Pub. L. 114–27, title IV](/us/pl/114/27/tIV), §§ 402(b), (c), 404(c), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 374](/us/stat/129/374), 376.)*

#### Termination of Assistance

For termination of assistance under this part after June 30, 2022, see Termination Date note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, referred to in par. (12), is [act June 25, 1938, ch. 680](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch680), [52 Stat. 1094](/us/stat/52/1094), which is classified principally to chapter 11 (§ 351 et seq.) of Title 45, Railroads. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 367 of Title 45](/us/usc/t45/s367) and Tables.

Section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970, referred to in par. (12), is [section 205 of title II of Pub. L. 91–373](/us/pl/91/373/tII/s205), which is set out in a note under [section 3304 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s3304), Internal Revenue Code.

#### Codification

Section reflects the July 1, 2021, reversion to provisions in effect on Jan. 1, 2014. See Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival note below.

[Section 233 of Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40/s233), which provided for the Jan. 1, 2014, revival of this section as in effect on Feb. 13, 2011, was repealed by [Pub. L. 114–27, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/114/27/tIV/s402/a), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 374](/us/stat/129/374), and the provisions of this section, as in effect on Dec. 31, 2013, were temporarily revived, effective June 29, 2015, until July 1, 2021, by [Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27), §§ 402(b), (c), 406. See 2011 and 2015 Amendment notes, Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival notes, and Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival notes below.

[Section 1893 of Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5/s1893), which provided for Feb. 13, 2011, termination of amendment by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), was repealed by [Pub. L. 112–40, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/112/40/tII/s201/a), Oct. 21, 2011, [125 Stat. 403](/us/stat/125/403), and the provisions of this section, as amended by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5) and as in effect on Feb. 12, 2011, were temporarily revived, effective Oct. 21, 2011, until Jan. 1, 2014, by [Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), §§ 201(b), (c), 233. See 2009 and 2011 Amendment notes, Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment notes, and Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival notes below.

#### Amendments

2015—[Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27), §§ 402(b), (c), 406, temporarily revived the provisions of this section, as in effect on Dec. 31, 2013. See Codification note above and 2011 Amendment and Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival notes below.

Par. (19). [Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27), §§ 404(c), 406, temporarily added par. (19). See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival note below.

2011—[Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), §§ 201(b), (c), 233, temporarily revived the provisions of this section, as in effect on Feb. 12, 2011. See Codification note above and 2009 Amendment and Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival notes below.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), §§ 211(b)(1)(A), 233, temporarily substituted “The term” for “Subject to [section 2272(d)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2272/d/5), the term” in introductory provisions. See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival note below.

Par. (3)(A). [Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), §§ 211(b)(1)(B), 233, temporarily substituted “or service sector firm” for “, service sector firm, or public agency”. See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival note below.

Pars. (7) to (19). [Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), §§ 211(b)(2), (3), 233, temporarily redesignated pars. (8) to (19) as (7) to (18), respectively, and temporarily struck out former par. (7) which read as follows: “The term ‘public agency’ means a department or agency of a State or local government or of the Federal Government, or a subdivision thereof.” See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival note below.

2009—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), §§ 1801(a)(1), 1893, temporarily struck out “or appropriate subdivision of a firm” after “employment in a firm” and “or subdivision” after “workers of such firm”. See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note below.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), §§ 1801(a)(2), 1893, temporarily substituted “employment, has been totally or partially separated from such employment.” for “employment—

“(A) has been totally or partially separated from such employment, or

“(B) has been totally separated from employment with the firm in a subdivision of which such adversely affected employment exists.”

See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note below.

Pars. (3), (7). [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), §§ 1801(a)(3), (4), 1893, temporarily added pars. (3) and (7). See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note below.

Par. (11). [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), §§ 1801(a)(5), 1893, temporarily struck out “, or in a subdivision of which,” after “firm in which”. See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note below.

Pars. (18), (19). [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), §§ 1801(a)(6), 1830(a)(2), 1893, temporarily added pars. (18) and (19). See Codification note above and Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note below.

1986—Pars. (16), (17). [Pub. L. 99–272](/us/pl/99/272) added pars. (16) and (17).

1981—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2511(1)](/us/pl/97/35/s2511/1), struck out par. (3) defining “average weekly manufacturing wage”.

Par. (7). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2511(1)](/us/pl/97/35/s2511/1), struck out par. (7) defining “remuneration”.

Par. (12). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2511(2)](/us/pl/97/35/s2511/2), revised par. (12) generally, inserting definitions of “regular compensation”, “additional compensation”, and “extended compensation”.

Par. (14). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2511(3)](/us/pl/97/35/s2511/3), substituted provisions requiring determination under the applicable State law or Federal unemployment insurance law for provisions requiring computation applying percent of average weekly wage and time spent prior to separation.

Par. (15). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2511(4)](/us/pl/97/35/s2511/4), added par. (15).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2015 Revival

For revival and applicability, beginning on June 29, 2015, of the provisions of this section as in effect on Dec. 31, 2013, see section 402(b), (c) of [Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27), set out as a note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).

For reversion, beginning on July 1, 2021, to the provisions of this section as in effect on Jan. 1, 2014, with certain exceptions and subject to [section 406(b) of Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27/s406/b), see [section 406 of Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27/s406), set out as a note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival

For revival and applicability, beginning on Oct. 21, 2011, of the provisions of this section as in effect on Feb. 12, 2011, see section 201(b), (c) of [Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40), set out as a note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).

[Section 233 of Pub. L. 112–40](/us/pl/112/40/s233), formerly set out as a note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271), which provided for the reversion, beginning on Jan. 1, 2014, of the provisions of this section to those in effect on Feb. 13, 2011, subject to certain exceptions, was repealed by [Pub. L. 114–27, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/114/27/tIV/s402/a), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 374](/us/stat/129/374), effective June 29, 2015. See Codification note above.

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment

Except as otherwise provided and subject to certain applicability provisions, amendment by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5) effective upon the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on Feb. 17, 2009, see [section 1891 of Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5/s1891), set out as a note under [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).

[Section 1893 of Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5/s1893), formerly set out as a Termination Date of 2009 Amendment note preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271), which provided that, except as otherwise provided, amendment by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5) not applicable on or after Feb. 13, 2011, and that this section be applied and administered beginning Feb. 13, 2011, as if amendment by [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5) had never been enacted, was repealed by [Pub. L. 112–40, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/112/40/tII/s201/a), Oct. 21, 2011, [125 Stat. 403](/us/stat/125/403), effective Oct. 21, 2011. See Codification note above.

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment and Transition Provisions

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–35](/us/pl/97/35) applicable to allowances payable for weeks of unemployment which begin after Sept. 30, 1981, with transition provisions applicable, see [section 2514 of Pub. L. 97–35](/us/pl/97/35/s2514), set out as a note under [section 2291 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2291).

#### Termination Date

No trade adjustment assistance, vouchers, allowances, or other payments or benefits may be provided under this part after June 30, 2022, except as otherwise provided, see [section 285 of Pub. L. 93–618](/us/pl/93/618/s285), as modified by [section 406(a)(7) of Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27/s406/a/7), set out as notes preceding [section 2271 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2271).
