---
title: "§ 6323. Reporting requirement"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–236, title VIII, § 843](/us/pl/103/236/tVIII/s843), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 524](/us/stat/108/524).)"
---
# § 6323. Reporting requirement

##### § 6323. Reporting requirement

(a) Report required The President shall, in the report required by [section 3281(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3281/a), describe—

(1) the steps he has taken to implement sections 6321 and 6322 of this title, and

(2) the progress that has been made and the obstacles that have been encountered in seeking to meet the objectives set forth in sections 6321 and 6322 of this title.

(b) Contents of report Each report under paragraph (1) 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection (a) of this section”. shall describe—

(1) the bilateral and multilateral initiatives that the President has taken during the period since April 30, 1994, in pursuit of each of the objectives set forth in sections 6321 and 6322 of this title;

(2) any obstacles that have been encountered in the pursuit of those initiatives;

(3) any additional initiatives that have been proposed by other countries or international organizations to strengthen the implementation of IAEA safeguards;

(4) all activities of the Federal Government in support of the objectives set forth in sections 6321 and 6322 of this title;

(5) any recommendations of the President on additional measures to enhance the effectiveness of IAEA safeguards; and

(6) any initiatives that the President plans to take in support of each of the objectives set forth in sections 6321 and 6322 of this title.

*([Pub. L. 103–236, title VIII, § 843](/us/pl/103/236/tVIII/s843), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 524](/us/stat/108/524).)*
