---
title: "§ 893. Rights of permissive settlers on railroad lands restored to public domain"
identifier: "USC-T43-S893"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section893"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Jan. 13, 1881, ch. 19](/us/act/1881-01-13/ch19), [21 Stat. 315](/us/stat/21/315); [Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 561](/us/act/1891-03-03/ch561), §§ 1, 4, [26 Stat. 1095](/us/stat/26/1095), 1097; [Mar. 3, 1893, ch. 208](/us/act/1893-03-03/ch208), [27 Stat. 593](/us/stat/27/593); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 893. Rights of permissive settlers on railroad lands restored to public domain

##### § 893. Rights of permissive settlers on railroad lands restored to public domain

All persons who shall have settled and made valuable and permanent improvements upon any odd-numbered section of land within any railroad withdrawal in good faith and with the permission or license of the railroad company for whose benefit the same shall have been made, and with the expectation of purchasing of such company the land so settled upon, which land so settled upon and improved, may, for any cause, be restored to the public domain, and who, at the time of such restoration, may not be entitled to enter and acquire title to such land under the homestead laws of the United States, shall be permitted, at any time within three months after such restoration, and under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior, or such officer as he may designate, may prescribe, to purchase not to exceed one hundred and sixty acres in extent of the same by legal subdivisions, at the price of $2.50 per acre, and to receive patents therefor.

*([Jan. 13, 1881, ch. 19](/us/act/1881-01-13/ch19), [21 Stat. 315](/us/stat/21/315); [Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 561](/us/act/1891-03-03/ch561), §§ 1, 4, [26 Stat. 1095](/us/stat/26/1095), 1097; [Mar. 3, 1893, ch. 208](/us/act/1893-03-03/ch208), [27 Stat. 593](/us/stat/27/593); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

“Secretary of the Interior, or such officer as he may designate,” substituted for “Commissioner of the General Land Office” on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946. See note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1).
