---
title: "§ 4105. Property"
identifier: "USC-T16-S4105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section4105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–659, title III, § 306](/us/pl/99/659/tIII/s306), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3735](/us/stat/100/3735).)"
---
# § 4105. Property

##### § 4105. Property

(a) Application of Federal and State laws All work, including the furnishing of labor and materials, needed to complete any project approved by the Secretary shall be performed in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws under the direct supervision of the State agency, and in accordance with regulations as the Secretary may prescribe.

(b) Title Title to all property, real and personal, acquired for the purposes of completing any project approved by the Secretary vests in the State.

(c) Disposal If a State disposes of any real or personal property acquired under this chapter, the State shall pay into the Treasury of the United States the amount of any proceeds resulting from the property disposed to the extent of and in the same ratio that funds provided under this chapter were used in the acquisition of the property. In no case shall the amount paid into the Treasury of the United States under this section exceed the amount of funds provided by this chapter for the acquisition of the property involved.

*([Pub. L. 99–659, title III, § 306](/us/pl/99/659/tIII/s306), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3735](/us/stat/100/3735).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 99–659](/us/pl/99/659), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3731](/us/stat/100/3731), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s4101) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1987, see [section 310 of Pub. L. 99–659](/us/pl/99/659/s310), set out as a note under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s4101).
