---
title: "§ 6630. Disposal of used or surplus furniture and equipment by Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate; procedure; deposit of receipts"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6630"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6630"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–94, title I, § 103](/us/pl/95/94/tI/s103), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 660](/us/stat/91/660); [Pub. L. 97–51, § 118](/us/pl/97/51/s118), Oct. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 964](/us/stat/95/964).)"
---
# § 6630. Disposal of used or surplus furniture and equipment by Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate; procedure; deposit of receipts

##### § 6630. Disposal of used or surplus furniture and equipment by Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate; procedure; deposit of receipts

Effective October 1, 1981, the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate is authorized to dispose of used or surplus furniture and equipment by trade-in or by sale directly or through the General Services Administration. Receipts from the sale of such furniture and equipment shall be deposited in the United States Treasury for credit to the appropriation for “Miscellaneous Items” under the heading “Contingent Expenses of the Senate”.

*([Pub. L. 95–94, title I, § 103](/us/pl/95/94/tI/s103), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 660](/us/stat/91/660); [Pub. L. 97–51, § 118](/us/pl/97/51/s118), Oct. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 964](/us/stat/95/964).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 59c and then to [section 117b of this title](/us/usc/t2/s117b) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriation Act, 1978, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1978.

#### Amendments

1981—[Pub. L. 97–51](/us/pl/97/51) substituted “Effective October 1, 1981” for “Effective October 1, 1977” and struck out provisions requiring that all receipts from the sale of furniture and equipment, other than such furniture and equipment as was replaced in kind, be deposited in the United States Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
