---
title: "§ 5124. Criminal penalty"
identifier: "USC-T49-S5124"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section5124"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 781](/us/stat/108/781); [Pub. L. 109–59, title VII, § 7121](/us/pl/109/59/tVII/s7121), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1906](/us/stat/119/1906).)"
---
# § 5124. Criminal penalty

##### § 5124. Criminal penalty

(a) In General.— A person knowingly violating section 5104(b) or willfully or recklessly violating this chapter or a regulation, order, special permit, or approval issued under this chapter shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both; except that the maximum amount of imprisonment shall be 10 years in any case in which the violation involves the release of a hazardous material that results in death or bodily injury to any person.

(b) Knowing Violations.— For purposes of this section—

(1) a person acts knowingly when—

(A) the person has actual knowledge of the facts giving rise to the violation; or

(B) a reasonable person acting in the circumstances and exercising reasonable care would have that knowledge; and

(2) knowledge of the existence of a statutory provision, or a regulation or a requirement required by the Secretary, is not an element of an offense under this section.

(c) Willful Violations.— For purposes of this section, a person acts willfully when—

(1) the person has knowledge of the facts giving rise to the violation; and

(2) the person has knowledge that the conduct was unlawful.

(d) Reckless Violations.— For purposes of this section, a person acts recklessly when the person displays a deliberate indifference or conscious disregard to the consequences of that person’s conduct.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 781](/us/stat/108/781); [Pub. L. 109–59, title VII, § 7121](/us/pl/109/59/tVII/s7121), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1906](/us/stat/119/1906).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 5124 | 49 App.:1809(b). | Jan. 3, 1975, Pub. L. 93–633, § 110(b), 88 Stat. 2161; restated Nov. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101–615, § 12(b), 104 Stat. 3259. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2005—[Pub. L. 109–59](/us/pl/109/59) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “A person knowingly violating [section 5104(b) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s5104/b) or willfully violating this chapter or a regulation prescribed or order issued under this chapter shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both.”
