---
title: "§ 1232. Label and entry requirements"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1232"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1232"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–506, § 3](/us/pl/85/506/s3), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 326](/us/stat/72/326); [Pub. L. 109–59, title X, § 10307(a)](/us/pl/109/59/tX/s10307/a), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1941](/us/stat/119/1941); [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title I, § 31314](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tI/s31314), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 772](/us/stat/126/772).)"
---
# § 1232. Label and entry requirements

##### § 1232. Label and entry requirements

(a) the make, model, and serial or identification number or numbers;

(b) the final assembly point;

(c) the name, and the location of the place of business, of the dealer to whom it is to be delivered;

(d) the name of the city or town at which it is to be delivered to such dealer;

(e) the method of transportation used in making delivery of such automobile, if driven or towed from final assembly point to place of delivery;

(f) the following information:

(1) the retail price of such automobile suggested by the manufacturer;

(2) the retail delivered price suggested by the manufacturer for each accessory or item of optional equipment, physically attached to such automobile at the time of its delivery to such dealer, which is not included within the price of such automobile as stated pursuant to paragraph (1);

(3) the amount charged, if any, to such dealer for the transportation of such automobile to the location at which it is delivered to such dealer; and

(4) the total of the amounts specified pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2), and (3);

(g) if one or more safety ratings for such automobile have been assigned and formally published or released by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration under the New Car Assessment Program, information about safety ratings that—

(1) includes a graphic depiction of the number of stars, or other applicable rating, that corresponds to each such assigned safety rating displayed in a clearly differentiated fashion indicating the maximum possible safety rating;

(2) refers to safety rating categories that may include frontal impact crash tests, side impact crash tests, and rollover resistance tests (whether or not such automobile has been assigned a safety rating for such tests);

(3) contains information describing the nature and meaning of the crash test data presented and a reference to additional vehicle safety resources, including http://www.safecar.gov; 11 So in original. Probably should be “http://www.safercar.gov;”. and

(4) is presented in a legible, visible, and prominent fashion and covers at least—

(A) 8 percent of the total area of the label; or

(B) an area with a minimum length of 4½ inches and a minimum height of 3½ inches; and

(h) if an automobile has not been tested by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration under the New Car Assessment Program, or safety ratings for such automobile have not been assigned in one or more rating categories, a statement to that effect.

*([Pub. L. 85–506, § 3](/us/pl/85/506/s3), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 326](/us/stat/72/326); [Pub. L. 109–59, title X, § 10307(a)](/us/pl/109/59/tX/s10307/a), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1941](/us/stat/119/1941); [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title I, § 31314](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tI/s31314), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 772](/us/stat/126/772).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2012—Subsec. (g)(2). [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) inserted “safety rating categories that may include” after “refers to”.

2005—Subsec. (f)(3). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 10307(a)(2)](/us/pl/109/59/s10307/a/2), inserted “and” at end.

Subsecs. (g), (h). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 10307(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/59/s10307/a/1), (3), (4), added subsecs. (g) and (h).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the later of Oct. 1, 1958, or the first day of the introduction of any new model of automobile in any line of automobile beginning after July 7, 1958, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 85–506](/us/pl/85/506/s5), set out as a note under [section 1231 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1231).

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 109–59, title X, § 10307(b)](/us/pl/109/59/tX/s10307/b), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1942](/us/stat/119/1942), provided that: “The Secretary of Transportation shall issue regulations to ensure that the labeling requirements under subsections (g) and (h) of section 3 of the Automobile Information Disclosure Act [[15 U.S.C. 1232(g)](/us/usc/t15/s1232/g), (h)], as added by subsection (a), are implemented by September 1, 2007.”
