---
title: "§ 2669b. Reaffirming United States international telecommunications policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2669b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2669b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXII, § 2218, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–816](/us/stat/112/2681-816).)"
---
# § 2669b. Reaffirming United States international telecommunications policy

##### § 2669b. Reaffirming United States international telecommunications policy

(a) Procurement policy It is the policy of the United States to foster and support procurement of goods and services from private, commercial companies.

(b) Implementation In order to achieve the policy set forth in subsection (a), the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service Program Office (DTS–PO) shall—

(1) utilize full and open competition, to the maximum extent practicable, in the procurement of telecommunications services, including satellite space segment, for the Department of State and each other Federal entity represented at United States diplomatic missions and consular posts overseas;

(2) make every effort to ensure and promote the participation in the competition for such procurement of commercial private sector providers of satellite space segment who have no ownership or other connection with an intergovernmental satellite organization; and

(3) implement the competitive procedures required by paragraphs (1) and (2) at the prime contracting level and, to the maximum extent practicable, the subcontracting level.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXII, § 2218, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–816](/us/stat/112/2681-816).)*
