---
title: "§ 50301. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S50301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section50301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–298, § 2](/us/pl/110/298/s2), July 31, 2008, [122 Stat. 2985](/us/stat/122/2985).)"
---
# § 50301. Definitions

##### § 50301. Definitions

(1) Federal agency head The term “Federal agency head” means the head of any executive, legislative, or judicial branch Government entity that employs Federal law enforcement officers.

(2) Federal Board The term “Federal Board” means the Federal Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery Board established under [section 50313(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50313/a).

(3) Federal Board members The term “Federal Board members” means the members of the Federal Board appointed under [section 50313(c) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50313/c).

(4) Federal Law Enforcement Badge The term “Federal Law Enforcement Badge” means the Federal Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery described in [section 50311 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50311).

(5) Federal law enforcement officer The term “Federal law enforcement officer”—

(A) means a Federal employee—

(i) who has statutory authority to make arrests or apprehensions;

(ii) who is authorized by the agency of the employee to carry firearms; and

(iii) whose duties are primarily—

(I) engagement in or supervision of the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person for, any violation of law; or

(II) the protection of Federal, State, local, or foreign government officials against threats to personal safety; and

(B) includes a law enforcement officer employed by the Amtrak Police Department or Federal Reserve.

(6) Office The term “Office” means the Congressional Badge of Bravery Office established under [section 50331(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50331/a).

(7) State and Local Board The term “State and Local Board” means the State and Local Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery Board established under [section 50323(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50323/a).

(8) State and Local Board members The term “State and Local Board members” means the members of the State and Local Board appointed under [section 50323(c) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50323/c).

(9) State and Local Law Enforcement Badge The term “State and Local Law Enforcement Badge” means the State and Local Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery described in [section 50321 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50321).

(10) State or local agency head The term “State or local agency head” means the head of any executive, legislative, or judicial branch entity of a State or local government that employs State or local law enforcement officers.

(11) State or local law enforcement officer The term “State or local law enforcement officer” means an employee of a State or local government—

(A) who has statutory authority to make arrests or apprehensions;

(B) who is authorized by the agency of the employee to carry firearms; and

(C) whose duties are primarily—

(i) engagement in or supervision of the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person for, any violation of law; or

(ii) the protection of Federal, State, local, or foreign government officials against threats to personal safety.

*([Pub. L. 110–298, § 2](/us/pl/110/298/s2), July 31, 2008, [122 Stat. 2985](/us/stat/122/2985).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15231 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15231), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of [Pub. L. 110–298](/us/pl/110/298), which is classified to this chapter, as the “Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery Act of 2008”, see [section 1 of Pub. L. 110–298](/us/pl/110/298/s1), set out as a Short Title of 2008 Act note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
