---
title: "§ 12577. Local application"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12577"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12577"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title XX, § 200208](/us/pl/103/322/tXX/s200208), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2060](/us/stat/108/2060).)"
---
# § 12577. Local application

##### § 12577. Local application

(a) In general A person who desires a scholarship or employment under this part shall submit an application to the State at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the State may reasonably require.

(b) Contents An application under subsection (a) shall describe—

(1) the academic courses for which a scholarship is sought; or

(2) the location and duration of employment that is sought.

(c) Priority In awarding scholarships and providing student employment under this part, each State shall give priority to applications from persons who are—

(1) members of racial, ethnic, or gender groups whose representation in the law enforcement agencies within the State is substantially less than in the population eligible for employment in law enforcement in the State;

(2) pursuing an undergraduate degree; and

(3) not receiving financial assistance under the Higher Education Act of 1965 [[20 U.S.C. 1001](/us/usc/t20/s1001) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title XX, § 200208](/us/pl/103/322/tXX/s200208), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2060](/us/stat/108/2060).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (c)(3), is [Pub. L. 89–329](/us/pl/89/329), Nov. 8, 1965, [79 Stat. 1219](/us/stat/79/1219), which is classified generally to chapter 28 (§ 1001 et seq.) of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1001 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14117 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14117), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
