---
title: "§ 7382. Research personnel"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7382"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7382"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title I, § 182(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tI/s182/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5436](/us/stat/136/5436).)"
---
# § 7382. Research personnel

##### § 7382. Research personnel

(a) Waiver of Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program Limits.— The Secretary may waive the limit on the period and number of assignments required under [section 3372(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3372/a) with respect to an individual who performs research for the Department under the mobility program under subchapter VI of chapter 33 of such title (commonly referred to as the “Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program”).

(b) Outside Earned Income for Research for the Department.—

(1) Compensation from a nonprofit corporation established under subchapter IV of this chapter, or a university affiliated with the Department, may be paid, without regard to [section 209 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s209), to an employee described in paragraph (2), for research conducted pursuant to [section 7303 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7303) if—

(A) the research has been approved in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Under Secretary for Health;

(B) the employee conducts research under the supervision of personnel of the Department; and

(C) the Secretary agreed to the terms of such compensation in writing.

(2) An employee described in this subsection is an employee who has an appointment within the Department, whether with or without compensation, and without regard to the source of such compensation.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title I, § 182(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tI/s182/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5436](/us/stat/136/5436).)*
