---
title: "§ 103101. Availability and use of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T54-S103101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section103101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3163](/us/stat/128/3163).)"
---
# § 103101. Availability and use of appropriations

##### § 103101. Availability and use of appropriations

(a) Credits of Receipts for Meals and Quarters Furnished Federal Government Employees in the Field.— Cash collections and payroll deductions made for meals and quarters furnished by the Service to employees of the Federal Government in the field and to cooperating agencies may be credited as a reimbursement to the current appropriation for the administration of the System unit in which the accommodations are furnished.

(b) Availability for Expense of Recording Donated Land.— Appropriations made for the Service shall be available for any expenses incident to the preparation and recording of title evidence covering land to be donated to the United States for administration by the Service.

(c) Use of Funds for Law Enforcement and Emergencies.—

(1) In general.— Funds, not to exceed $250,000 per incident, available to the Service may be used, with the approval of the Secretary, to—

(A) maintain law and order in emergency and other unforeseen law enforcement situations; and

(B) conduct emergency search and rescue operations in the System.

(2) Replenishment of funds.— If the Secretary expends funds under paragraph (1), the funds shall be replenished by a supplemental appropriation for which the Secretary shall make a request as promptly as possible.

(d) Contribution for Annuity Benefits.—

(1) In general.— Necessary amounts are appropriated for reimbursement, pursuant to the Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act amendments of 1957 ([Public Law 85–157](/us/pl/85/157), [71 Stat. 391](/us/stat/71/391)), to the District of Columbia on a monthly basis for benefit payments by the District of Columbia to United States Park Police annuitants under section 12 of the Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act (ch. 433, [39 Stat. 718](/us/stat/39/718)), to the extent that those payments exceed contributions made by active Park Police members covered under the Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act.

(2) Nonavailability of appropriations to the service.— Appropriations made to the Service are not available for the purpose of making reimbursements under paragraph (1).

(e) Waterproof Footwear.— Appropriations for the Service that are available for the purchase of equipment may be used for purchase of waterproof footwear, which shall be regarded and listed as System equipment.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3163](/us/stat/128/3163).)*

In subsection (a), the word “Hereafter” in section 1 (last paragraph on p. 209) of the Act of May 9, 1935 (ch. 101, [49 Stat. 209](/us/stat/49/209)) is omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (b), the word “Hereafter” in section 1 (6th complete paragraph on p. 350) of the Act of June 28, 1941 (ch. 259, [55 Stat. 350](/us/stat/55/350)) is omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (c), the words “On and after October 5, 1992” are omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (d), the words “the Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act amendments of 1957 ([Public Law 85–157](/us/pl/85/157), [71 Stat. 391](/us/stat/71/391))” are substituted for “[Public Law 85–157](/us/pl/85/157)” for clarity. The words “Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act (ch. 433, § 12, [39 Stat. 718](/us/stat/39/718))” are substituted for “Policeman and Fireman’s Retirement and Disability Act (Act)” because of section 12(r) of the Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act, as amended by section 3 of the Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act amendments of 1957 ([Public Law 85–157](/us/pl/85/157), [71 Stat. 399](/us/stat/71/399)). The words “(not heretofore made)” and “hereafter” are omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (e), the words “whenever made” are omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 103101(a) | 16 U.S.C. 14b. | May 9, 1935, ch. 101, § 1 (34th undesignated paragraph under heading “NATIONAL PARK SERVICE”), 49 Stat. 209. |
|  | 16 U.S.C. 456a. |  |
| 103101(b) | 16 U.S.C. 14c. | June 28, 1941, ch. 259, § 1 (41st undesignated paragraph under heading “NATIONAL PARK SERVICE”), 55 Stat. 350. |
| 103101(c) | 16 U.S.C. 14d. | Pub. L. 102–381, title I, (1st proviso in paragraph under heading “administrative provisions” under heading “National Park Service”), Oct. 5, 1992, 106 Stat. 1384; Pub. L. 103–332, title I, (3d proviso in paragraph under heading “administrative provisions” under heading “National Park Service”), Sept. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 2507. |
| 103101(d) | 16 U.S.C. 14e. | Pub. L. 107–63, title I, (paragraph under heading “contribution for annuity benefits” under heading “National Park Service”), Nov. 5, 2001, 115 Stat. 424. |
| 103101(e) | 16 U.S.C. 15. | Mar. 7, 1928, ch. 137, § 1 (28th undesignated paragraph under heading “NATIONAL PARK SERVICE”), 45 Stat. 238. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act amendments of 1957, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is [Pub. L. 85–157](/us/pl/85/157), Aug. 21, 1957, [71 Stat. 391](/us/stat/71/391), which is not classified to the Code.

The Policemen and Firemen’s Retirement and Disability Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is [act Sept. 1, 1916, ch. 433, § 12](/us/act/1916-09-01/ch433/s12), as added [Pub. L. 85–157, § 3](/us/pl/85/157/s3), Aug. 21, 1957, [71 Stat. 391](/us/stat/71/391), which is not classified to the Code.
