---
title: "§ 308502. National women’s rights history project partnerships network"
identifier: "USC-T54-S308502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section308502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3236](/us/stat/128/3236).)"
---
# § 308502. National women’s rights history project partnerships network

##### § 308502. National women’s rights history project partnerships network

(a) Grants.— The Secretary may make matching grants and give technical assistance for development of a network of governmental and nongovernmental entities (referred to in this section as the “network”), the purpose of which is to provide interpretive and educational program development of national women’s rights history, including historic preservation.

(b) Management of Network.—

(1) In general.— Through a competitive process, the Secretary shall designate a nongovernmental managing entity to manage the network.

(2) Coordination.— The nongovernmental managing entity designated under paragraph (1) shall work in partnership with the Director and State historic preservation offices to coordinate operation of the network.

(c) Cost-Sharing Requirement.—

(1) In general.— The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made available under this section shall be 50 percent.

(2) State historic preservation offices.— Matching grants for historic preservation specific to the network may be made available through State historic preservation offices.

(d) Authorization of Appropriations.— There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2012 and 2013.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3236](/us/stat/128/3236).)*

In subsection (b)(1), the words “nongovernmental managing entity” are substituted for “nongovernmental managing network” for consistency.

In subsection (d), reference to fiscal years 2009 to 2011 is omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 308502 | 16 U.S.C. 469m(c). | Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, subtitle B, § 7111(c), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1200. |
