---
title: "§ 6864a. Private sector investments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6864a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6864a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–385, title IV, § 414A](/us/pl/94/385/tIV/s414A), as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 142(a)](/us/pl/102/486/tI/s142/a), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2842](/us/stat/106/2842).)"
---
# § 6864a. Private sector investments

##### § 6864a. Private sector investments

(a) In general The Secretary shall, to the extent funds are made available for such purpose, provide financial assistance to entities receiving funding from the Federal Government or from a State through a weatherization assistance program under section 6863 or [section 6864 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6864) for the development and initial implementation of partnerships, agreements, or other arrangements with utilities, private sector interests, or other institutions, under which non-Federal financial assistance would be made available to support programs which install energy efficiency improvements in low-income housing.

(b) Use of funds Financial assistance provided under this section may be used for—

(1) the negotiation of such partnerships, agreements and other arrangements;

(2) the presentation of arguments before State or local agencies;

(3) expert advice on the development of such partnerships, agreements, and other arrangements; or

(4) other activities reasonably associated with the development and initial implementation of such arrangements.

(c) Conditions

(1) Financial assistance provided under this section to entities other than States shall, to the extent practicable, coincide with the timing of financial assistance provided to such entities under section 6863 or [section 6864 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6864).

(2) Not less than 80 percent of amounts provided under this section shall be provided to entities other than States.

(3) A recipient of financial assistance under this section shall have up to three years to complete projects undertaken with such assistance.

*([Pub. L. 94–385, title IV, § 414A](/us/pl/94/385/tIV/s414A), as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 142(a)](/us/pl/102/486/tI/s142/a), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2842](/us/stat/106/2842).)*
