---
title: "§ 106. Montana"
identifier: "USC-T28-S106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 884](/us/stat/62/884).)"
---
# § 106. Montana

##### § 106. Montana

Montana, exclusive of Yellowstone National Park, constitutes one judicial district.

Court shall be held at Billings, Butte, Glasgow, Great Falls, Havre, Helena, Kalispell, Lewistown, Livingston, Miles City, and Missoula.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 884](/us/stat/62/884).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 172 ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 92](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s92), [36 Stat. 1118](/us/stat/36/1118); [July 3, 1926, ch. 748](/us/act/1926-07-03/ch748), [44 Stat. 825](/us/stat/44/825); [July 5, 1937, ch. 430](/us/act/1937-07-05/ch430), [50 Stat. 474](/us/stat/50/474); [Aug. 26, 1937, ch. 819, § 2](/us/act/1937-08-26/ch819/s2), [50 Stat. 837](/us/stat/50/837); [Aug. 7, 1939, ch. 506](/us/act/1939-08-07/ch506), [53 Stat. 1236](/us/stat/53/1236)).

All of Yellowstone National Park is included in the judicial district of Wyoming by [section 131 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s131). Those parts of the park lying in Montana are accordingly excluded from the judicial district of Montana.

A provision for furnishing rooms and accommodations at Havre was omitted as obsolete on advice of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts that Federal accommodations are now available there.

A provision for transfer of causes, civil or criminal, from one place of holding court to another was omitted. Such provision, as to civil cases, is covered by [section 1404 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s1404), and, as to criminal cases, is rendered unnecessary because of inherent power of the court and Rules 18–20 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, relating to venue.

A provision for the making of any interlocutory order at any place designated for holding court was omitted as unnecessary in view of Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 77–(b).

The provisions respecting court accommodations at Kalispell, Lewistown, and Livingston were omitted as covered by [section 142 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s142).

Changes were made in arrangement and phrase­ology.
