---
title: "§ 11295a. Reporting"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11295a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11295a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/93/415/tIV/s407), as added [Pub. L. 115–267, § 2(e)(2)](/us/pl/115/267/s2/e/2), Oct. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 3760](/us/stat/132/3760), and [Pub. L. 115–393, title II, § 202(e)(2)](/us/pl/115/393/tII/s202/e/2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5271](/us/stat/132/5271); amended [Pub. L. 118–65, § 2(c)](/us/pl/118/65/s2/c), June 17, 2024, [138 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/138/1442).)"
---
# § 11295a. Reporting

##### § 11295a. Reporting

(a) Required reporting As a condition of receiving funds under [section 11293(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11293/b), the grant recipient shall, based solely on reports received by the grantee and not involving any data collection by the grantee other than those reports, annually provide to the Administrator and make available to the general public, as appropriate—

(1) the number of children nationwide who are reported to the grantee as missing;

(2) the number of children nationwide who are reported to the grantee as victims of non-family abductions;

(3) the number of children nationwide who are reported to the grantee as victims of family abductions;

(4) the number of missing children recovered nationwide whose recovery was reported to the grantee;

(5) the number of children nationwide who are reported to the grantee as missing from State-sponsored care;

(6) the number of children nationwide who are reported to the grantee as missing from State-sponsored care whose recovery was reported to the grantee; and

(7) the number of children nationwide who are reported to the grantee as missing from State-sponsored care and are likely victims of child sex trafficking.

(b) Incidence of attempted child abductions As a condition of receiving funds under [section 11293(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11293/b), the grant recipient shall—

(1) track the incidence of attempted child abductions in order to identify links and patterns;

(2) provide such information to law enforcement agencies; and

(3) make such information available to the general public, as appropriate.

(c) Criteria for forensic partnerships As a condition of receiving funds under [section 11293(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11293/b), the grant recipient shall annually provide to the Administrator and make available to the general public, as appropriate, the criteria and processes the grantee uses to establish forensic partnerships and recommend forensic resources to law enforcement and shall annually review these forensic partnerships and forensic referrals against the criteria and review new advancements in technology.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/93/415/tIV/s407), as added [Pub. L. 115–267, § 2(e)(2)](/us/pl/115/267/s2/e/2), Oct. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 3760](/us/stat/132/3760), and [Pub. L. 115–393, title II, § 202(e)(2)](/us/pl/115/393/tII/s202/e/2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5271](/us/stat/132/5271); amended [Pub. L. 118–65, § 2(c)](/us/pl/118/65/s2/c), June 17, 2024, [138 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/138/1442).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 115–267](/us/pl/115/267) and [Pub. L. 115–393](/us/pl/115/393) enacted identical sections.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 407 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s407) was renumbered section 408 and is classified to [section 11296 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11296).

Another prior [section 407 of title IV of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/tIV/s407), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XVII, § 170303(2)](/us/pl/103/322/tXVII/s170303/2), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2043](/us/stat/108/2043), established the Missing and Exploited Children’s Task Force, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 110–240, § 5(1)](/us/pl/110/240/s5/1), June 3, 2008, [122 Stat. 1564](/us/stat/122/1564).

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a)(5) to (7). [Pub. L. 118–65, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/118/65/s2/c/1), added pars. (5) to (7).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–65, § 2(c)(2)](/us/pl/118/65/s2/c/2), added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 11, 2018, and applicable to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2018, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 115–267](/us/pl/115/267/s4), set out as an Effective Date of 2018 Amendment note under [section 11291 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11291).
