---
title: "§ 2261. Presentation of recognition items for recruitment and retention purposes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2261"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2261"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 589(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s589/a/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3279](/us/stat/119/3279); amended [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, § 594](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tV/s594), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2235](/us/stat/120/2235).)"
---
# § 2261. Presentation of recognition items for recruitment and retention purposes

##### § 2261. Presentation of recognition items for recruitment and retention purposes

(a) Expenditures for Recognition Items.— Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, appropriated funds may be expended—

(1) to procure recognition items of nominal or modest value for recruitment or retention purposes; and

(2) to present such items—

(A) to members of the armed forces; and

(B) to members of the families of members of the armed forces, and other individuals, recognized as providing support that substantially facilitates service in the armed forces.

(b) Provision of Meals and Refreshments.— For purposes of [section 520c of this title](/us/usc/t10/s520c) and any regulation prescribed to implement that section, functions conducted for the purpose of presenting recognition items described in subsection (a) shall be treated as recruiting functions, and recipients of such items shall be treated as persons who are the objects of recruiting efforts.

(c) Recognition Items of Nominal or Modest Value.— In this section, the term “recognition item of nominal or modest value” means a commemorative coin, medal, trophy, badge, flag, poster, painting, or other similar item that is valued at less than $50 per item and is designed to recognize or commemorate service in the armed forces.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 589(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s589/a/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3279](/us/stat/119/3279); amended [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, § 594](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tV/s594), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2235](/us/stat/120/2235).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–364](/us/pl/109/364) struck out heading and text of subsec. (d). Text read as follows: “The authority under this section shall expire December 31, 2007.”
