---
title: "§ 44814. ASSUREd Safe credentialing authority"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44814"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44814"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title X, § 1007(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tX/s1007/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1389](/us/stat/138/1389).)"
---
# § 44814. ASSUREd Safe credentialing authority

##### § 44814. ASSUREd Safe credentialing authority

(a) In General.— Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall establish a credentialing authority for the program of record of the Federal Aviation Administration (referred to in this section as “ASSUREd Safe”) under the Center of Excellence for Unmanned Aircraft Systems.

(b) Purposes.— ASSUREd Safe shall offer services throughout the United States, and to allies and partners of the United States, including—

(1) online and in-person standards, education, and testing for the use of unmanned aircraft systems by first responders for emergency and disaster management operations;

(2) uniform communications standards, operational standards, and reporting standards for civilian, military, and international allies and partners; and

(3) any other relevant standards development related to operation of unmanned aircraft systems, as determined appropriate by the Administrator.

(c) Coordination.— The Administrator shall ensure that the Center of Excellence for Unmanned Aircraft Systems coordinates with the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the Federal Emergency Management Agency on establishment of ASSUREd Safe, and on any services offered by ASSUREd Safe.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title X, § 1007(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tX/s1007/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1389](/us/stat/138/1389).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63), which was approved May 16, 2024.
