---
title: "§ 8123. Record of transfer of jurisdiction between Director of National Park Service and Mayor of District of Columbia"
identifier: "USC-T40-S8123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section8123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1207](/us/stat/116/1207).)"
---
# § 8123. Record of transfer of jurisdiction between Director of National Park Service and Mayor of District of Columbia

##### § 8123. Record of transfer of jurisdiction between Director of National Park Service and Mayor of District of Columbia

When in accordance with law or mutual legal agreement, spaces or portions of public land are transferred between the jurisdiction of the Director of the National Park Service, as established by the Act of July 1, 1898 (ch. 543, [30 Stat. 570](/us/stat/30/570)), and the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the letters of transfer and acceptance exchanged between them are sufficient authority for the necessary change in the official maps and for record when necessary.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1207](/us/stat/116/1207).)*

For transfer of functions from the Chief of Engineers to the Director of the National Park Service, see the revision note under [section 8102 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s8102). The word “Mayor” is substituted for “Commissioners” [meaning the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia] [which subsequently should have been changed to “Commissioner” (meaning the Commissioner of the District of Columbia) rather than “District of Columbia Council” because of section 401 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1967 (eff. Nov. 3, 1967, [81 Stat. 951](/us/stat/81/951))] because of section 421 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act ([Public Law 93–198](/us/pl/93/198), [87 Stat. 789](/us/stat/87/789)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 8123 | 40:79. | July 1, 1898, ch. 543, § 5, 30 Stat. 570. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of July 1, 1898, referred to in text, is [act July 1, 1898, ch. 543](/us/act/1898-07-01/ch543), [30 Stat. 570](/us/stat/30/570), which enacted sections 60, 75, 78, 79, and 80 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and amended section 67 of former Title 40. Sections 60, 67, 75, 78, and 80 of former Title 40 have been omitted from the Code. Section 79 of former Title 40 was repealed and reenacted as this section by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
