---
title: "§ 101113. Gifts, devises, or bequests"
identifier: "USC-T54-S101113"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section101113"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3120](/us/stat/128/3120); [Pub. L. 114–289, title IV, § 401(2)](/us/pl/114/289/tIV/s401/2), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/130/1488).)"
---
# § 101113. Gifts, devises, or bequests

##### § 101113. Gifts, devises, or bequests

(a) Authority To Accept Gifts, Devises, or Bequests.—

(1) In general.— The National Park Foundation may accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer, and use any gifts, devises, or bequests, either absolutely or in trust of real or personal property, or any income from, or other interest in, the gift, devise, or bequest, for the benefit of, or in connection with, the Service, its activities, or its services.

(2) Coordination with service.— Activities of the National Park Foundation under paragraph (1) shall be undertaken after consultation with the Director to ensure that those activities are consistent with the programs and policies of the Service.

(3) Gift, devise, or bequest that is encumbered, restricted, or subject to beneficial interests.— A gift, devise, or bequest may be accepted by the National Park Foundation even though it is encumbered, restricted, or subject to beneficial interests of private persons if any current or future interest in the gift, devise, or bequest is for the benefit of the Service, its activities, or its services.

(b) When Gift, Devise, or Bequest May Not Be Accepted.— The National Park Foundation may not accept any gift, devise, or bequest that entails any expenditure other than from the resources of the Foundation.

(c) Interest in Real Property.— For purposes of this section, an interest in real property includes easements or other rights for preservation, conservation, protection, or enhancement by and for the public of natural, scenic, historic, scientific, educational, inspirational, or recreational resources.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3120](/us/stat/128/3120); [Pub. L. 114–289, title IV, § 401(2)](/us/pl/114/289/tIV/s401/2), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/130/1488).)*

In subsection (c), the words “among other things” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 101113(a)(1) | 16 U.S.C. 19g (1st sentence words before proviso). | Pub. L. 90–209, § 3, Dec. 18, 1967, 81 Stat. 656. |
| 101113(a)(2) | 16 U.S.C. 19g (last sentence). |  |
| 101113(b) | 16 U.S.C. 19g (1st sentence proviso). |  |
| 101113(c) | 16 U.S.C. 19g (2d sentence). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 114–289](/us/pl/114/289) added par. (2) and redesignated former par. (2) as (3).
