---
title: "§ 274i–2. Design and production of medal"
identifier: "USC-T42-S274i–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section274i–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–413, § 4](/us/pl/110/413/s4), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4339](/us/stat/122/4339).)"
---
# § 274i–2. Design and production of medal

##### § 274i–2. Design and production of medal

(a) In general Subject to the provisions of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall design and strike the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Gift of Life Medals, each of which shall—

(1) weigh 250 grams;

(2) have a diameter of 3 inches; and

(3) consist of bronze.

(b) Design

(1) In general The design of the medals shall commemorate the compassion and courage manifested by and the sacrifices made by organ donors and their families, and the medals shall bear suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions.

(2) Selection The design of medals struck under this section shall be—

(A) selected by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, interested members of the family of Stephanie Tubbs Jones, Dr. William H. Frist, and the Commission of Fine Arts; and

(B) reviewed by the Citizens Coin Advisory Committee.

(c) National medals The medals struck pursuant to this section are national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31.

(d) Striking and delivery of minimum-sized lots The Secretary of the Treasury shall strike and deliver to the Secretary of Health and Human Services no fewer than 100 medals at any time pursuant to an order by such Secretary.

(e) Cost of medals Medals struck under this section and sold to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for distribution in accordance with this part shall be sold to the Secretary of Health and Human Services at a price sufficient to cover the cost of designing and striking the medals, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.

(f) No expenditures in advance of receipt of fund

(1) In general The Secretary of the Treasury shall not strike or distribute any medals under this part until such time as the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that sufficient funds have been received by such Secretary to cover the cost of the medals ordered.

(2) Design in advance of order Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Treasury may begin designing the medal at any time after October 14, 2008, and take such other action as may be necessary to be prepared to strike such medals upon receiving the certification described in such paragraph, including preparing dies and striking test pieces.

*([Pub. L. 110–413, § 4](/us/pl/110/413/s4), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4339](/us/stat/122/4339).)*
