---
title: "§ 60502. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S60502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section60502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–199, § 4](/us/pl/110/199/s4), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 660](/us/stat/122/660); [Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 502(g)(1)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s502/g/1), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5231](/us/stat/132/5231).)"
---
# § 60502. Definitions

##### § 60502. Definitions

(1) the term “exoneree” means an individual who—

(A) has been convicted of a Federal, tribal, or State offense that is punishable by a term of imprisonment of more than 1 year;

(B) has served a term of imprisonment for not less than 6 months in a Federal, tribal, or State prison or correctional facility as a result of the conviction described in subparagraph (A); and

(C) has been determined to be factually innocent of the offense described in subparagraph (A);

(2) the term “Indian tribe” has the meaning given in [section 10251 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10251);

(3) the term “offender” includes an exoneree; and

(4) the term “Transitional Jobs strategy” means an employment strategy for youth and adults who are chronically unemployed or those that have barriers to employment that—

(A) is conducted by State, tribal, and local governments, State, tribal, and local workforce boards, and nonprofit organizations;

(B) provides time-limited employment using individual placements, team placements, and social enterprise placements, without displacing existing employees;

(C) pays wages in accordance with applicable law, but in no event less than the higher of the rate specified in [section 206(a)(1) of title 29](/us/usc/t29/s206/a/1) or the applicable State or local minimum wage law, which are subsidized, in whole or in part, by public funds;

(D) combines time-limited employment with activities that promote skill development, remove barriers to employment, and lead to unsubsidized employment such as a thorough orientation and individual assessment, job readiness and life skills training, case management and supportive services, adult education and training, child support-related services, job retention support and incentives, and other similar activities;

(E) places participants into unsubsidized employment; and

(F) provides job retention, re-employment services, and continuing and vocational education to ensure continuing participation in unsubsidized employment and identification of opportunities for advancement.

*([Pub. L. 110–199, § 4](/us/pl/110/199/s4), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 660](/us/stat/122/660); [Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 502(g)(1)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s502/g/1), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5231](/us/stat/132/5231).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 657](/us/stat/122/657), known as the Second Chance Act of 2007: Community Safety Through Recidivism Prevention and also as the Second Chance Act of 2007. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2008 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 17502 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s17502), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–391](/us/pl/115/391) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “In this Act, the term ‘Indian Tribe’ has the meaning given that term in [section 10251 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10251).”
