---
title: "§ 12227. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12227"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12227"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31708](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31708), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1892](/us/stat/108/1892).)"
---
# § 12227. Definitions

##### § 12227. Definitions

In this part—

- “Indian tribe” means a tribe, band, pueblo, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians, including an Alaska Native village (as defined in or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ([43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.)), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.

- “State” means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the United States Virgin Islands.

- “young violent offenders” means individuals, ages 7 through 22, who have committed crimes of violence, weapons offenses, drug distribution, hate crimes and civil rights violations, and offenses against personal property of another.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31708](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31708), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1892](/us/stat/108/1892).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 92–203](/us/pl/92/203), Dec. 18, 1971, [85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1601) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13868 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13868), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
