---
title: "§ 9710. Identification and support of consistent, Federal set of forward-looking, long-term meteorological information"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9710"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9710"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–316, § 15](/us/pl/117/316/s15), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4417](/us/stat/136/4417).)"
---
# § 9710. Identification and support of consistent, Federal set of forward-looking, long-term meteorological information

##### § 9710. Identification and support of consistent, Federal set of forward-looking, long-term meteorological information

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Extreme weather The term “extreme weather” includes observed or anticipated severe and unseasonable atmospheric conditions, including drought, heavy precipitation, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms (including derechos), large hail, extreme heat, extreme cold, flooding, sustained temperatures or precipitation that deviate substantially from historical averages, and any other weather event that the Administrator determines qualifies as extreme weather.

(2) Long-term The term “long-term” shall have such meaning as the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in consultation with the Administrator, considers appropriate for purposes of this section.

(3) Other environmental trends The term “other environmental trends” means wildfires, coastal flooding, inland flooding, land subsidence, rising sea levels, and any other challenges relating to changes in environmental systems over time that the Administrator determines qualify as environmental challenges other than extreme weather.

(b) Identification and support of consistent, Federal set of forward-looking, long-term meteorological information The Administrator shall identify, and support research that enables, a consistent, Federal set of forward-looking, long-term meteorological information that models future extreme weather events, other environmental trends, projections, and up-to-date observations, including mesoscale information as determined appropriate by the Administrator.

*([Pub. L. 117–316, § 15](/us/pl/117/316/s15), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4417](/us/stat/136/4417).)*
