---
title: "§ 3584. Multiple sentences of imprisonment"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3584"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3584"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2000](/us/stat/98/2000).)"
---
# § 3584. Multiple sentences of imprisonment

##### § 3584. Multiple sentences of imprisonment

(a) Imposition of Concurrent or Consecutive Terms.— If multiple terms of imprisonment are imposed on a defendant at the same time, or if a term of imprisonment is imposed on a defendant who is already subject to an undischarged term of imprisonment, the terms may run concurrently or consecutively, except that the terms may not run consecutively for an attempt and for another offense that was the sole objective of the attempt. Multiple terms of imprisonment imposed at the same time run concurrently unless the court orders or the statute mandates that the terms are to run consecutively. Multiple terms of imprisonment imposed at different times run consecutively unless the court orders that the terms are to run concurrently.

(b) Factors To Be Considered in Imposing Concurrent or Consecutive Terms.— The court, in determining whether the terms imposed are to be ordered to run concurrently or consecutively, shall consider, as to each offense for which a term of imprisonment is being imposed, the factors set forth in section 3553(a).

(c) Treatment of Multiple Sentence as an Aggregate.— Multiple terms of imprisonment ordered to run consecutively or concurrently shall be treated for administrative purposes as a single, aggregate term of imprisonment.

*(Added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2000](/us/stat/98/2000).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Nov. 1, 1987, and applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of this section, see [section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s235/a/1), set out as a note under [section 3551 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3551).
