---
title: "§ 460nnn–103. Land Exchange, Tom J. Davis Livestock, Incorporated"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460nnn–103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460nnn–103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–399, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/106/399/tVI/s603), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/114/1672).)"
---
# § 460nnn–103. Land Exchange, Tom J. Davis Livestock, Incorporated

##### § 460nnn–103. Land Exchange, Tom J. Davis Livestock, Incorporated

(a) Exchange authorized For the purpose of protecting and consolidating Federal lands within the Wilderness Area, the Secretary may carry out a land exchange with Tom J. Davis Livestock, Incorporated, to convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to certain parcels of land under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management in the vicinity of Steens Mountain, Oregon, as depicted on the map referred to in [section 460nnn–105(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460nnn–105/a), consisting of a total of approximately 5,340 acres in exchange for the private lands described in subsection (b).

(b) Receipt of non-Federal lands As consideration for the conveyance of the Federal lands referred to in subsection (a) and the disbursement referred to in subsection (c), Tom J. Davis Livestock, Incorporated, shall convey to the Secretary a parcel of land consisting of approximately 5,103 acres, as depicted on the map referred to in [section 460nnn–105(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460nnn–105/a), for inclusion in the Wilderness Area.

(c) Disbursement Upon completion of the land exchange authorized by this section, the Secretary is authorized to make a disbursement to Tom J. Davis Livestock, Incorporated, in the amount of $800,000.

(d) Completion of conveyance The Secretary shall complete the conveyance of the Federal lands under subsection (a) within 70 days after the Secretary accepts the lands described in subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 106–399, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/106/399/tVI/s603), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/114/1672).)*
