---
title: "§ 55605. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T46-S55605"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section55605"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–140, title XI, § 1121(a)](/us/pl/110/140/tXI/s1121/a), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1761](/us/stat/121/1761); amended [Pub. L. 112–213, title IV, § 405(b)](/us/pl/112/213/tIV/s405/b), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1571](/us/stat/126/1571); [Pub. L. 114–92, div. C, title XXXV, § 3508](/us/pl/114/92/dC/tXXXV/s3508), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1223](/us/stat/129/1223); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8332(d)(6), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat"
---
# § 55605. Definitions

##### § 55605. Definitions

(1) The term “marine highway transportation” means the carriage by a documented vessel of cargo (including such carriage of cargo and passengers), if such cargo—

(A) is—

(i) contained in intermodal cargo containers and loaded by crane on the vessel;

(ii) loaded on the vessel by means of wheeled technology, including roll-on roll-off cargo;

(iii) shipped in discrete units or packages that are handled individually, palletized, or unitized for purposes of transportation;

(iv) bulk, liquid, or loose cargo loaded in tanks, holds, hoppers, or on deck; or

(v) freight vehicles carried aboard commuter ferry boats; and

(B) is—

(i) loaded at a port in the United States and unloaded either at another port in the United States or at a port in Canada or Mexico; or

(ii) loaded at a port in Canada or Mexico and unloaded at a port in the United States.

(2) The term “Tribal government” means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published most recently, as of the date of enactment of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 ([25 U.S.C. 5131](/us/usc/t25/s5131)).

(3) The term “Alaska Native Corporation” has the meaning given the term “Native Corporation” under section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ([43 U.S.C. 1602](/us/usc/t43/s1602)).

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–140, title XI, § 1121(a)](/us/pl/110/140/tXI/s1121/a), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1761](/us/stat/121/1761); amended [Pub. L. 112–213, title IV, § 405(b)](/us/pl/112/213/tIV/s405/b), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1571](/us/stat/126/1571); [Pub. L. 114–92, div. C, title XXXV, § 3508](/us/pl/114/92/dC/tXXXV/s3508), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1223](/us/stat/129/1223); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8332(d)(6), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4705](/us/stat/134/4705); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3521(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3521/d/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3079](/us/stat/136/3079).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, referred to in par. (2), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), which was approved Dec. 23, 2022.

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section defined the term “marine highway transportation” as used in this chapter.

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “Marine highway” for “Short sea” in section catchline and “marine highway transportation” for “short sea transportation” in introductory provisions.

2015—Par. (1)(C), (D). [Pub. L. 114–92](/us/pl/114/92) added subpars. (C) and (D).

2012—[Pub. L. 112–213](/us/pl/112/213), which directed amendment of section 55605, without specifying the title to be amended, by substituting “by a documented vessel” for “by vessel” in the matter preceding par. (1), was executed to this section, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
