---
title: "§ 2455. Law enforcement and judicial report"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2455"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2455"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4222](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4222), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–148](/us/stat/100/3207-148).)"
---
# § 2455. Law enforcement and judicial report

##### § 2455. Law enforcement and judicial report

(a) Compilation of law enforcement data The Secretary of the Interior, with respect to the administration of any law enforcement or judicial services program by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, either directly or through contracts under the Indian Self-Determination Act [[25 U.S.C. 5321](/us/usc/t25/s5321) et seq.], shall require the compilation of data relating to calls and encounters, arrests and detentions, and disposition of cases by Bureau of Indian Affairs or tribal law enforcement or judicial personnel involving Indians where it is determined that alcohol or substance abuse is a contributing factor.

(b) Referral of data The data compiled pursuant to subsection (a) shall be provided annually to the affected Indian tribe and Tribal Coordinating Committee to assist them in developing or modifying a Tribal Action Plan and shall also be submitted to the Indian Health Service 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “service”. unit director who will have the responsibility for compiling a tribal comprehensive report as provided in section 2477 22 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(c) Confidentiality In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall insure that the data is compiled and reported in a manner which will preserve the confidentiality of the families and individuals involved.

*([Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4222](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4222), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–148](/us/stat/100/3207-148).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is title I of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/88/2206), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 5321 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

[Section 2477 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2477), referred to in subsec. (b), was repealed by [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 702(b)(2)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s702/b/2), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4582](/us/stat/106/4582).
