---
title: "§ 8504. National strategy for military and veteran recreation"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title II, § 224](/us/pl/118/234/tII/s224), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2888](/us/stat/138/2888).)"
---
# § 8504. National strategy for military and veteran recreation

##### § 8504. National strategy for military and veteran recreation

(a) Strategy Not later than 1 year after January 4, 2025, the Federal Interagency Council on Outdoor Recreation established under section 113 11 See References in Text note below. shall develop and make public a strategy to increase visits to Federal recreational lands and waters by members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and Gold Star Family members.

(b) Requirements A strategy developed under subsection (a)—

(1) shall—

(A) establish objectives and quantifiable targets for increasing visits to Federal recreational lands and waters by members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and Gold Star Family members;

(B) include an opportunity for public notice and comment;

(C) emphasize increased recreation opportunities on Federal recreational lands and waters for members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and Gold Star Family members; and

(D) provide the anticipated costs to achieve the objectives and meet the targets established under subparagraph (A); and

(2) shall not establish any preference between similar recreation facilitated by noncommercial or commercial entities.

(c) Update to strategy Not later than 5 years after the date of the publication of the strategy required under subsection (a), and every 5 years thereafter, the Federal Interagency Council on Outdoor Recreation shall update the strategy and make public the update.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title II, § 224](/us/pl/118/234/tII/s224), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2888](/us/stat/138/2888).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 113, referred to in subsec. (a), is [section 113 of Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234/s113), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2839](/us/stat/138/2839), which amended sections 200102 and 200104 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs. As amended, [section 200104 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s200104) establishes the Federal Interagency Council on Outdoor Recreation.
