---
title: "§ 2050. Transfer of appropriations for management personnel and miscellaneous restaurant expenses to special deposit account"
identifier: "USC-T2-S2050"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section2050"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–55, title I](/us/pl/105/55/tI), Oct. 7, 1997, [111 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/111/1189).)"
---
# § 2050. Transfer of appropriations for management personnel and miscellaneous restaurant expenses to special deposit account

##### § 2050. Transfer of appropriations for management personnel and miscellaneous restaurant expenses to special deposit account

Appropriations under this heading for management personnel and miscellaneous restaurant expenses on and after October 7, 1997, shall be transferred at the beginning of each fiscal year to the special deposit account in the United States Treasury established under [section 2044 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s2044), and effective October 1, 1997, all management personnel of the Senate Restaurant facilities shall be paid from the special deposit account. Management personnel transferred hereunder shall be paid at the same rates of pay applicable immediately prior to the date of transfer, and annual and sick leave balances shall be credited to leave accounts of such personnel in the Senate Restaurants.

*([Pub. L. 105–55, title I](/us/pl/105/55/tI), Oct. 7, 1997, [111 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/111/1189).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Appropriations under this heading, referred to in text, probably means appropriations under the headings “ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL”, “Capital Buildings and Grounds”, and “senate office buildings” in the annual Legislative Branch Appropriations Act.

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 174j–10 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1998, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998.
