---
title: "§ 19351. Advanced nuclear technologies Federal research, development, and demonstration program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19351"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19351"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10781](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10781), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1728](/us/stat/136/1728); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(p)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/dC/tXXXI/s3131/p/1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 803](/us/stat/137/803).)"
---
# § 19351. Advanced nuclear technologies Federal research, development, and demonstration program

##### § 19351. Advanced nuclear technologies Federal research, development, and demonstration program

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Advanced nuclear reactor The term “advanced nuclear reactor” has the meaning given the term in [section 16271(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16271/b).

(2) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means each of—

(A) a State;

(B) an Indian Tribe (as defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304));

(C) a Tribal organization (as defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304));

(D) a unit of local government;

(E) an electric utility (as defined in [section 796 of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s796));

(F) a National Laboratory (as defined in [section 15801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801));

(G) an institution of higher education (as defined in [section 1001(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a)); and

(H) a private entity specializing in—

(i) advanced nuclear technology development;

(ii) nuclear supply chains; or

(iii) with respect to nuclear technologies and nonelectric applications of nuclear technologies, construction, project financing, contract structuring and risk allocation, or regulatory and licensing processes.

(3) Program The term “program” means the program established under subsection (b)(1).

(4) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Energy.

(b) Establishment of program

(1) In general The Secretary shall establish a program to provide Federal financial assistance to eligible entities to support the research, development, demonstration, and deployment of advanced nuclear reactors and associated supply chain infrastructure.

(2) Competitive procedures To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall carry out the program using a competitive, merit-based review process that is consistent with [section 16353 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16353).

(c) Applications An eligible entity desiring Federal financial assistance under the program shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(d) Priority In selecting eligible entities to receive Federal financial assistance under the program, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that—

(1) plan to carry out projects at or near the site of 1 or more fossil fuel electric generation facilities that are retired or scheduled to retire, including multi-unit facilities that are partially shut down—

(A) to support the productive reuse of fossil fuel electric generation facilities that are retired or scheduled to retire; and

(B) to sustain and revitalize communities impacted by the closure of fossil fuel electric generation facilities;

(2) plan to support nonelectric applications, including supplying heat for—

(A) energy storage;

(B) hydrogen or other liquid and gaseous fuel or chemical production;

(C) industrial processes;

(D) desalination technologies and processes;

(E) isotope production;

(F) district heating; and

(G) other applications, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate; and

(3) have implemented or demonstrated the ability to successfully implement workforce training or retraining programs to train workers to perform activities relating to the research, development, and demonstration of advanced nuclear reactors.

(e) Cost share [Section 16352 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16352) shall apply to Federal financial assistance provided under the program.

(f) Authorization of appropriations In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the program—

(1) $75,000,000 for fiscal year 2023;

(2) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2024;

(3) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2025;

(4) $225,000,000 for fiscal year 2026; and

(5) $250,000,000 for fiscal year 2027.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10781](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10781), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1728](/us/stat/136/1728); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(p)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/dC/tXXXI/s3131/p/1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 803](/us/stat/137/803).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) substituted “demonstration, and deployment of advanced nuclear reactors and associated supply chain infrastructure” for “and demonstration of advanced nuclear reactors”.
