---
title: "§ 1466. Civil forfeitures"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1466"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1466"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–283, title III, § 306](/us/pl/96/283/tIII/s306), June 28, 1980, [94 Stat. 580](/us/stat/94/580).)"
---
# § 1466. Civil forfeitures

##### § 1466. Civil forfeitures

(a) In general Any vessel subject to the provisions of sections 1464 and 1465 of this title, including its gear, furniture, appurtenances, stores, and cargo, which is used, in any manner, in connection with or as a result of the commission of any act prohibited by [section 1461 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1461) and any hard mineral resource which is recovered, processed, or retained, in any manner, in connection with or as a result of the commission of any such act, shall be subject to forfeiture to the United States. All or part of such vessel, and all such hard mineral resources, may be forfeited to the United States pursuant to a civil proceeding under this section. All provisions of law relating to the seizure, judicial forfeiture, and condemnation of a vessel or cargo for violation of the customs laws, and the disposition of the vessel, cargo, or proceeds from the sale thereof and the remission or mitigation of such forfeitures shall apply to seizures and forfeitures incurred or alleged to have been incurred under the provisions of this section insofar as such provisions of law are applicable and not inconsistent with this chapter.

(b) Jurisdiction of courts Any district court of the United States which has jurisdiction under [section 1467 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1467) shall have jurisdiction, upon application by the Attorney General on behalf of the United States, to order any forfeiture authorized under subsection (a) and any action provided for under subsection (d).

(c) Judgment If a judgment is entered for the United States in a civil forfeiture proceeding under this section, the Attorney General may seize any property or other interest declared forfeited to the United States which has not previously been seized pursuant to this chapter or for which security has not previously been obtained under subsection (d).

(d) Procedure Any officer authorized to serve any process in rem which is issued by a court having jurisdiction under [section 1467 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1467) shall stay the execution of such process, or discharge any property seized pursuant to such process, upon the receipt of a satisfactory bond or other security from any person subject to [section 1461 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1461) claiming such property. Such bond or other security shall be conditioned upon such person (1) delivering such property to the appropriate court upon order thereof, without any impairment of its value; or (2) paying the monetary value of such property pursuant to any order of such court. Judgment shall be recoverable on such bond or other security against both the principal and any sureties in the event that any condition thereof is breached, as determined by such court.

(e) Rebuttable presumption For purposes of this section, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that all hard mineral resources found on board a vessel subject to the provisions of sections 1464 and 1465 of this title which is seized in connection with an act prohibited by [section 1461 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1461) were recovered, processed, or retained in violation of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 96–283, title III, § 306](/us/pl/96/283/tIII/s306), June 28, 1980, [94 Stat. 580](/us/stat/94/580).)*
