---
title: "§ 759. Survey for and by settlers in township"
identifier: "USC-T43-S759"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section759"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 2401; [Aug. 20, 1894, ch. 302, § 1](/us/act/1894-08-20/ch302/s1), [28 Stat. 423](/us/stat/28/423); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/43/1144); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 759. Survey for and by settlers in township

##### § 759. Survey for and by settlers in township

When the settlers in any township not mineral or reserved by the Government, or persons and associations lawfully possessed of coal lands and otherwise qualified to make entry thereof, or when the owners or grantees of public lands of the United States, under any law thereof, desire a survey made of the same under the authority of such agency as the Secretary of the Interior may designate and shall file an application therefor in writing, and shall deposit in a proper United States depository to the credit of the United States a sum sufficient to pay for such survey, together with all expenditures incident thereto, without cost or claim for indemnity on the United States, it shall be lawful for such agency, under such instructions as may be given by the Secretary of the Interior or such officer as he may designate, and in accordance with law, to survey such township or such public lands owned by said grantees of the Government, and make return therefor to the general and proper local land office: *Provided*, That no application shall be granted unless the township so proposed to be surveyed is within the range of the regular progress of the public surveys embraced by existing standard lines or bases for township and subdivisional surveys.

*(R.S. § 2401; [Aug. 20, 1894, ch. 302, § 1](/us/act/1894-08-20/ch302/s1), [28 Stat. 423](/us/stat/28/423); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/43/1144); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 2401 derived from [act May 30, 1862, ch. 86, § 10](/us/act/1862-05-30/ch86/s10), [12 Stat. 410](/us/stat/12/410).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Office of Surveyor General and Transfer of Functions

Act Mar. 3, 1925, abolished office of surveyor general and transferred administration of all activities in charge of surveyors general to Field Surveying Service under jurisdiction of United States Supervisor of Surveys.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

References to “the Field Surveying Service” changed to “such agency as the Secretary of the Interior may designate” and “such agency,”, respectively; and “Commissioner of the General Land Office” changed to “Secretary of the Interior or such officer as he may designate”, on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946. See note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1).
