---
title: "§ 50102. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S50102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section50102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609N](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609N), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2104](/us/stat/98/2104); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XI, § 1112](/us/pl/107/296/tXI/s1112)(*o*), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2278](/us/stat/116/2278); [Pub. L. 109–177, title V, § 506(a)(11)](/us/pl/109/177/tV/s506/a/11), Mar. 9, 2006, [120 Stat. 248](/us/stat/120/248).)"
---
# § 50102. Definitions

##### § 50102. Definitions

(1) the term “Federal law enforcement assistance” means funds, equipment, training, intelligence information, and personnel,

(2) the term “Federal law enforcement community” means the heads of the following departments or agencies:

(A) the Federal Bureau of Investigation,

(B) the Drug Enforcement Administration,

(C) the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice,

(D) the Internal Revenue Service,

(E) the Customs Service,

(F) the Immigration and Naturalization Service,

(G) the United States Marshals Service,

(H) the National Park Service,

(I) the United States Postal Service,

(J) the Secret Service,

(K) the Coast Guard,

(L) the National Security Division of the Department of Justice,

(M) the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice, and

(N) other Federal agencies with specific statutory authority to investigate violations of Federal criminal laws,

(3) the term “law enforcement emergency” means an uncommon situation which requires law enforcement, which is or threatens to become of serious or epidemic proportions, and with respect to which State and local resources are inadequate to protect the lives and property of citizens or to enforce the criminal law, except that such term does not include—

(A) the perceived need for planning or other activities related to crowd control for general public safety projects, or

(B) a situation requiring the enforcement of laws associated with scheduled public events, including political conventions and sports events, and

(4) the term “State” means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

*([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609N](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609N), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2104](/us/stat/98/2104); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XI, § 1112](/us/pl/107/296/tXI/s1112)(*o*), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2278](/us/stat/116/2278); [Pub. L. 109–177, title V, § 506(a)(11)](/us/pl/109/177/tV/s506/a/11), Mar. 9, 2006, [120 Stat. 248](/us/stat/120/248).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subdivision” probably meaning subtitle B (which probably should have been designated “subdivision” B) of division I of chapter VI of title II of [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), which enacted this chapter.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 10502 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10502), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2006—Par. (2)(L) to (N). [Pub. L. 109–177](/us/pl/109/177) added subpar. (L) and redesignated former subpars. (L) and (M) as (M) and (N), respectively.

2002—Par. (2)(L). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) substituted “Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice” for “Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) effective 60 days after Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 101 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s101), Domestic Security.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).

For transfer of the functions, personnel, assets, and obligations of the United States Secret Service, including the functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 381, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1551), Aliens and Nationality.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding [section 1681 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1681), Territories and Insular Possessions.
