---
title: "§ 11245. Periodic estimate of incidence and prevalence of youth homelessness"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11245"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11245"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 345](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s345), as added [Pub. L. 110–378, § 6](/us/pl/110/378/s6), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4070](/us/stat/122/4070).)"
---
# § 11245. Periodic estimate of incidence and prevalence of youth homelessness

##### § 11245. Periodic estimate of incidence and prevalence of youth homelessness

(a) Periodic estimate Not later than 2 years after October 8, 2008, and at 5-year intervals thereafter, the Secretary, in consultation with the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and make available to the public, a report—

(1) by using the best quantitative and qualitative social science research methods available, containing an estimate of the incidence and prevalence of runaway and homeless individuals who are not less than 13 years of age but are less than 26 years of age; and

(2) that includes with such estimate an assessment of the characteristics of such individuals.

(b) Content The report required by subsection (a) shall include—

(1) the results of conducting a survey of, and direct interviews with, a representative sample of runaway and homeless individuals who are not less than 13 years of age but are less than 26 years of age, to determine past and current—

(A) socioeconomic characteristics of such individuals; and

(B) barriers to such individuals obtaining—

(i) safe, quality, and affordable housing;

(ii) comprehensive and affordable health insurance and health services; and

(iii) incomes, public benefits, supportive services, and connections to caring adults; and

(2) such other information as the Secretary determines, in consultation with States, units of local government, and national nongovernmental organizations concerned with homelessness, may be useful.

(c) Implementation If the Secretary enters into any contract with a non-Federal entity for purposes of carrying out subsection (a), such entity shall be a nongovernmental organization, or an individual, determined by the Secretary to have appropriate expertise in quantitative and qualitative social science research.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 345](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s345), as added [Pub. L. 110–378, § 6](/us/pl/110/378/s6), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4070](/us/stat/122/4070).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5714–25 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5714–25), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 345 of title III of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s345), as added [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(i)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/i), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/113/1038), related to study of runaways to determine the percent who have been sexually abused, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 108–96, title I, § 115](/us/pl/108/96/tI/s115), Oct. 10, 2003, [117 Stat. 1170](/us/stat/117/1170).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.
