---
title: "§ 6306. Use of other agencies"
identifier: "USC-T38-S6306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section6306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–233, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/109/233/tIV/s402/a), June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 409](/us/stat/120/409); amended [Pub. L. 117–205, § 2(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/205/s2/b/2), Oct. 17, 2022, [136 Stat. 2233](/us/stat/136/2233).)"
---
# § 6306. Use of other agencies

##### § 6306. Use of other agencies

(a) In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall arrange with the Secretary of Labor for the State employment service to match the particular qualifications of an eligible veteran or eligible dependent with an appropriate job or job training opportunity, including, where possible, arrangements for outstationing the State employment personnel who provide such assistance at appropriate facilities of the Department.

(b) In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, actively seek to promote the development and establishment of employment opportunities, training opportunities, and other opportunities for veterans, with particular emphasis on the needs of veterans with service-connected disabilities and other eligible veterans, taking into account applicable rates of unemployment and the employment emphases set forth in chapter 42 of this title.

(c) In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall cooperate with and use the services of any Federal department or agency or any State or local governmental agency or recognized national or other organization.

(d) In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall, where appropriate, make referrals to any Federal department or agency or State or local governmental unit or recognized national or other organization.

(e) In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary may furnish available space and office facilities for the use of authorized representatives of such governmental unit or other organization providing services.

(f) In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall conduct and provide for studies, in consultation with appropriate Federal departments and agencies, to determine the most effective program design to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–233, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/109/233/tIV/s402/a), June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 409](/us/stat/120/409); amended [Pub. L. 117–205, § 2(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/205/s2/b/2), Oct. 17, 2022, [136 Stat. 2233](/us/stat/136/2233).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 7725 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7725) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–233](/us/pl/109/233).

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–205](/us/pl/117/205) substituted “this subchapter” for “this chapter” wherever appearing.
