---
title: "§ 7501. Establishment of scholarship program; purpose"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–163, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/111/163/tIII/s302/a), May 5, 2010, [124 Stat. 1146](/us/stat/124/1146).)"
---
# § 7501. Establishment of scholarship program; purpose

##### § 7501. Establishment of scholarship program; purpose

(a) Establishment.— Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall establish and carry out a scholarship program to provide financial assistance in accordance with this chapter to individuals who—

(1) are accepted for enrollment or currently enrolled in a program of study leading to a degree or certificate in visual impairment or orientation and mobility, or a dual degree or certification in both such areas, at an accredited (as determined by the Secretary) educational institution that is in a State; and

(2) enter into an agreement with the Secretary as described in [section 7504 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7504).

(b) Purpose.— The purpose of the scholarship program is to increase the supply of qualified blind rehabilitation specialists for the Department and the Nation.

(c) Outreach.— The Secretary shall publicize the scholarship program to educational institutions throughout the United States, with an emphasis on disseminating information to such institutions with high numbers of Hispanic students and to Historically Black Colleges and Universities.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–163, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/111/163/tIII/s302/a), May 5, 2010, [124 Stat. 1146](/us/stat/124/1146).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Implementation

[Pub. L. 111–163, title III, § 302(c)](/us/pl/111/163/tIII/s302/c), May 5, 2010, [124 Stat. 1149](/us/stat/124/1149), provided that: “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall implement chapter 75 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [May 5, 2010].”
