---
title: "§ 5541. Fees for internal delivery in House of Representatives of nonpostage mail from outside sources"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5541"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5541"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–53, title I, § 101](/us/pl/104/53/tI/s101), Nov. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 520](/us/stat/109/520); [Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s103/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2225](/us/stat/121/2225).)"
---
# § 5541. Fees for internal delivery in House of Representatives of nonpostage mail from outside sources

##### § 5541. Fees for internal delivery in House of Representatives of nonpostage mail from outside sources

Effective with respect to fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 1995, in the case of mail from outside sources presented to the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives (other than mail through the Postal Service and mail with postage otherwise paid) for internal delivery in the House of Representatives, the Chief Administrative Officer is authorized to collect fees equal to the applicable postage. Amounts received by the Chief Administrative Officer as fees under the preceding sentence shall be deposited in the Treasury for credit to the account of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer.

*([Pub. L. 104–53, title I, § 101](/us/pl/104/53/tI/s101), Nov. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 520](/us/stat/109/520); [Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s103/a), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2225](/us/stat/121/2225).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 117j of this title](/us/usc/t2/s117j) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1996, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1996.

#### Amendments

2007—[Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161) substituted “deposited in the Treasury for credit to the account of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer” for “deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–161, div. H, title I, § 103(b)](/us/pl/110/161/dH/tI/s103/b), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2225](/us/stat/121/2225), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2008 and each succeeding fiscal year.”
