---
title: "§ 10223. Sanctions and policy coordination for Burma"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10223"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10223"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5572](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5572), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3366](/us/stat/136/3366).)"
---
# § 10223. Sanctions and policy coordination for Burma

##### § 10223. Sanctions and policy coordination for Burma

(a) In general The head of the Office of Sanctions Coordination in the Department of State should develop a comprehensive strategy for the implementation of the full range of United States diplomatic capabilities to implement Burma-related sanctions in order to promote human rights and the restoration of civilian government in Burma.

(b) Matters to be included The strategy described in subsection (a) should include plans and steps to—

(1) coordinate the sanctions policies of the United States with relevant bureaus and offices in the Department of State and other relevant United States Government agencies;

(2) conduct relevant research and vetting of entities and individuals that may be subject to sanctions and coordinate with other United States Government agencies and international financial intelligence units to assist in efforts to enforce anti-money laundering and anti-corruption laws and regulations;

(3) promote a comprehensive international effort to impose and enforce multilateral sanctions with respect to Burma;

(4) support interagency United States Government efforts, including efforts of the United States Chief of Mission to Burma, the United States Ambassador to ASEAN, and the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations, relating to—

(A) identifying opportunities to exert pressure on the governments of the People’s Republic of China and the Russian Federation to support multilateral action against the Burmese military; and

(B) working with like-minded partners to impose a coordinated arms embargo on the Burmese military and targeted sanctions on the economic interests of the Burmese military, including through the introduction and adoption of a United Nations Security Council resolution; and

(5) provide timely input for reporting on the impacts of the implementation of sanctions on the Burmese military and the people of Burma.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5572](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5572), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3366](/us/stat/136/3366).)*
