---
title: "§ 3409. Employer training placements"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3409"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3409"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–477, § 10](/us/pl/102/477/s10), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/106/2304); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 10](/us/pl/115/93/s10), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2032](/us/stat/131/2032).)"
---
# § 3409. Employer training placements

##### § 3409. Employer training placements

(a) In general Subject to subsection (b), an Indian tribe that has in place an approved plan under this chapter may use the funds made available for the plan under this chapter—

(1) to place participants in training positions with employers; and

(2) to pay the participants a training allowance or wage for a training period of not more than 24 months, which may be nonconsecutive.

(b) Requirements An Indian tribe may carry out subsection (a) only if the Indian tribe enters into a written agreement with each applicable employer under which the employer shall agree—

(1) to provide on-the-job training to the participants; and

(2) on satisfactory completion of the training period described in subsection (a)(2), to prioritize the provision of permanent employment to the participants.

*([Pub. L. 102–477, § 10](/us/pl/102/477/s10), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/106/2304); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 10](/us/pl/115/93/s10), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2032](/us/stat/131/2032).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “A tribal government participating in a demonstration program under this chapter is authorized to utilize funds available under such plan to place participants in training positions with private employers and pay such participants a training allowance or wage for a period not to exceed 12 months, if the tribal government obtains a written agreement from the private employer to provide on-the-job training to such participants and, upon satisfactory completion of the training period, to guarantee permanent employment to such participants for a minimum of 12 months.”
