---
title: "§ 402. Existing claims, locations, or entries not affected; exchange of lands"
identifier: "USC-T16-S402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 7, 1924, ch. 305, § 3](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch305/s3), [43 Stat. 594](/us/stat/43/594); [Feb. 25, 1928, ch. 102, § 1](/us/act/1928-02-25/ch102/s1), [45 Stat. 147](/us/stat/45/147).)"
---
# § 402. Existing claims, locations, or entries not affected; exchange of lands

##### § 402. Existing claims, locations, or entries not affected; exchange of lands

Nothing herein contained shall affect any valid claim, location, or entry existing under the land laws of the United States prior to June 7, 1924, whether for homestead, mineral, right-of-way, or any other purpose whatsoever, or shall affect the rights of any such claimant, locator, or entryman to the full use and enjoyment of his land. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to exchange, in his discretion, alienated lands in Bryce Canyon National Park for unappropriated and unreserved public lands of equal value and approximately equal area in the State of Utah outside of said park.

*([June 7, 1924, ch. 305, § 3](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch305/s3), [43 Stat. 594](/us/stat/43/594); [Feb. 25, 1928, ch. 102, § 1](/us/act/1928-02-25/ch102/s1), [45 Stat. 147](/us/stat/45/147).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Herein, referred to in text, means act June 7, 1924, which is classified to sections 346, 401 and 402 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The land laws of the United States, referred to in text, are classified generally to Title 43, Public Lands.

#### Codification

The last sentence of this section as originally enacted is expressly applicable also to Zion National Park. See [section 346 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s346).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Utah National Park” changed to “Bryce Canyon National Park” by section 1 of act Feb. 25, 1928, classified to [section 402a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s402a).
