---
title: "§ 6299. Authority to obtain information"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6299"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6299"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 329](/us/pl/94/163/tIII/s329), Dec. 22, 1975, [89 Stat. 928](/us/stat/89/928); [Pub. L. 95–619, title VI, § 691(b)(2)](/us/pl/95/619/tVI/s691/b/2), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3288](/us/stat/92/3288); [Pub. L. 100–12, § 11(b)(4)](/us/pl/100/12/s11/b/4), Mar. 17, 1987, [101 Stat. 125](/us/stat/101/125).)"
---
# § 6299. Authority to obtain information

##### § 6299. Authority to obtain information

(a) In general For purposes of carrying out this part, the Commission and the Secretary may each sign and issue subpenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant books, records, papers, and other documents, and may each administer oaths. Witnesses summoned under the provisions of this section shall be paid the same fees and mileage as are paid to witnesses in the courts of the United States. In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpena served, upon any persons subject to this part, the Commission and the Secretary may each seek an order from the district court of the United States for any district in which such person is found or resides or transacts business requiring such person to appear and give testimony, or to appear and produce documents. Failure to obey any such order is punishable by such court as a contempt thereof.

(b) Confidentiality Any information submitted by any person to the Secretary or the Commission under this part shall not be considered energy information as defined by [section 796(e)(1) of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s796/e/1) for purposes of any verification examination authorized to be conducted by the Comptroller General under [section 6381 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6381).

*([Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 329](/us/pl/94/163/tIII/s329), Dec. 22, 1975, [89 Stat. 928](/us/stat/89/928); [Pub. L. 95–619, title VI, § 691(b)(2)](/us/pl/95/619/tVI/s691/b/2), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3288](/us/stat/92/3288); [Pub. L. 100–12, § 11(b)(4)](/us/pl/100/12/s11/b/4), Mar. 17, 1987, [101 Stat. 125](/us/stat/101/125).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1987—[Pub. L. 100–12](/us/pl/100/12) inserted headings for subsecs. (a) and (b).

1978—[Pub. L. 95–619](/us/pl/95/619) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator”, meaning Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration, wherever appearing.
