---
title: "§ 515. Examination, location, and purchase of forested, cut-over, or denuded lands; consent of State legislature to acquisition of land by the United States"
identifier: "USC-T16-S515"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section515"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Mar. 1, 1911, ch. 186, § 6](/us/act/1911-03-01/ch186/s6), [36 Stat. 962](/us/stat/36/962); [June 7, 1924, ch. 348, § 6](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch348/s6), [43 Stat. 654](/us/stat/43/654); [Pub. L. 94–588, § 17(a)(3)](/us/pl/94/588/s17/a/3), Oct. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 2961](/us/stat/90/2961).)"
---
# § 515. Examination, location, and purchase of forested, cut-over, or denuded lands; consent of State legislature to acquisition of land by the United States

##### § 515. Examination, location, and purchase of forested, cut-over, or denuded lands; consent of State legislature to acquisition of land by the United States

The Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized and directed to examine, locate, and purchase such forested, cut-over, or denuded lands within the watersheds of navigable streams as in his judgment may be necessary to the regulation of the flow of navigable streams or for the production of timber. No deed or other instrument of conveyance of lands referred to herein shall be accepted or approved by the Secretary of Agriculture under this Act until the legislature of the State in which the land lies shall have consented to the acquisition of such land by the United States for the purpose of preserving the navigability of navigable streams.

*([Mar. 1, 1911, ch. 186, § 6](/us/act/1911-03-01/ch186/s6), [36 Stat. 962](/us/stat/36/962); [June 7, 1924, ch. 348, § 6](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch348/s6), [43 Stat. 654](/us/stat/43/654); [Pub. L. 94–588, § 17(a)(3)](/us/pl/94/588/s17/a/3), Oct. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 2961](/us/stat/90/2961).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, means [act Mar. 1, 1911, ch. 186](/us/act/1911-03-01/ch186), [36 Stat. 961](/us/stat/36/961), popularly known as the Weeks Law, which enacted this section, former sections 513 and 514 of this title, and sections 516 to 519, 521, 552, and 563 of this title and amended sections 480 and 500 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 552 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s552) and Tables.

#### Codification

Act Mar. 1, 1911, prior to its amendment, authorized the Secretary to study lands necessary to the regulation of the flow of navigable streams. This authority was enlarged by act June 7, 1924, to include in its scope “lands necessary for the production of timber”.

#### Amendments

1976—[Pub. L. 94–588](/us/pl/94/588) substituted “The Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized and directed to examine, locate, and purchase such forested, cut-over, or denuded lands within the watersheds of navigable streams as in his judgment may be necessary to the regulation of the flow of navigable streams or for the production of timber. No deed or other instrument of conveyance of lands referred to herein shall be accepted or approved by the Secretary of Agriculture under this Act until the legislature of the State in which the land lies shall have consented to the acquisition of such land by the United States for the purpose of preserving the navigability of navigable streams” for “The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized and directed to examine, locate, and recommend for purchase such forested, cut-over, or denuded lands within the watersheds of navigable streams as in his judgment may be necessary to the regulation of the flow of navigable streams or for the production of timber and to report to the National Forest Reservation Commission the results of such examination; but before any lands are purchased by the commission said lands shall be examined by the Secretary of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Director of the Geological Survey, and a report made by them to the commission showing that the control of such lands by the Federal Government will promote or protect the navigation of streams or by the Secretary of Agriculture showing that such control will promote the production of timber thereon”.
