---
title: "§ 2191. Rules of construction"
identifier: "USC-T48-S2191"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section2191"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–187, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/114/187/tIV/s401), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 585](/us/stat/130/585).)"
---
# § 2191. Rules of construction

##### § 2191. Rules of construction

(1) to limit the authority of Congress to exercise legislative authority over the territories pursuant to Article IV, section 3 of the Constitution of the United States;

(2) to authorize the application of [section 2124(f) of this title](/us/usc/t48/s2124/f) (relating to issuance of subpoenas) to judicial officers or employees of territory courts;

(3) to alter, amend, or abrogate any provision of the Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of America ([48 U.S.C. 1801](/us/usc/t48/s1801) et seq.); or

(4) to alter, amend, or abrogate the treaties of cession regarding certain islands of American Samoa ([48 U.S.C. 1661](/us/usc/t48/s1661)).

*([Pub. L. 114–187, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/114/187/tIV/s401), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 585](/us/stat/130/585).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–187](/us/pl/114/187), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 549](/us/stat/130/549), known as the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act and also as PROMESA, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s2101) and Tables.

The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, referred to in par. (3), is contained in [section 1 of Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241/s1), set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1801).
