---
title: "§ 55110. Transportation of valueless material or dredged material"
identifier: "USC-T46-S55110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section55110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(c)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/c), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1637](/us/stat/120/1637); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. C, title XXXV, § 3527(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/181/dC/tXXXV/s3527/b/1), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 602](/us/stat/122/602).)"
---
# § 55110. Transportation of valueless material or dredged material

##### § 55110. Transportation of valueless material or dredged material

[Section 55102 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s55102) applies to the transportation of valueless material or dredged material, regardless of whether it has commercial value, from a point in the United States or on the high seas within the exclusive economic zone, to another point in the United States or on the high seas within the exclusive economic zone.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(c)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/c), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1637](/us/stat/120/1637); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. C, title XXXV, § 3527(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/181/dC/tXXXV/s3527/b/1), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 602](/us/stat/122/602).)*

The words “or place” are omitted as surplus. The words “as defined in the Presidential Proclamation of March 10, 1983” are omitted because “exclusive economic zone” is defined in chapter 1 of the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 55110 | 46 App.:883 (12th proviso). | June 5, 1920, ch. 250, § 27 (12th proviso), 41 Stat. 999; Pub. L. 100–329, § 1(a), June 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 588. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2008—[Pub. L. 110–181](/us/pl/110/181) inserted “valueless material or” before “dredged material” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Nonapplicability of [Pub. L. 100–329](/us/pl/100/329) to Certain Vessels

[Pub. L. 102–587, title V, § 5501(c)](/us/pl/102/587/tV/s5501/c), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5085](/us/stat/106/5085), provided that: “The Act of June 7, 1988 ([Public Law 100–329](/us/pl/100/329); [102 Stat. 588](/us/stat/102/588)) [amending sections 316 and 883 (from which this section was derived) of the former Appendix to this title and enacting provisions set out below], including the amendments made by that Act, does not apply to a vessel— “(1) engaged in the transportation of valueless material or valueless dredged material; and “(2) owned or chartered by a corporation that had on file with the Secretary of Transportation on August 1, 1989, the certificate specified in section 27A of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920 (46 App. U.S.C. 883–1) [now [46 U.S.C. 12118](/us/usc/t46/s12118)].”

#### Transportation of Municipal Sewage Sludge

[Pub. L. 100–329, § 3](/us/pl/100/329/s3), June 7, 1988, [102 Stat. 589](/us/stat/102/589), provided that: “Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1 of this Act [amending section 883 of the former Appendix to this title, from which this section was derived], a vessel may transport municipal sewage sludge if that vessel, regardless of where it was built, is documented under the laws of the United States and, on the date of enactment of this Act [June 7, 1988], that vessel— “(1) is in use by a municipality for the transportation of sewage sludge; or “(2) is under contract with a municipality for the transportation of sewage sludge.”

#### Vessel Under Contract With Municipality for Transportation of Sewage Sludge: Applicability of Provisions

[Pub. L. 100–329, § 4](/us/pl/100/329/s4), June 7, 1988, [102 Stat. 589](/us/stat/102/589), provided that: “For purposes of the first paragraph of section 805(a) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 App. U.S.C. 1223(a)) [now [46 U.S.C. 58101](/us/usc/t46/s58101)], a vessel described in section 3(2) of this Act [set out as a note above] is not a vessel engaged in domestic intercoastal or coastwise service, but the prohibitions in the second paragraph apply to that vessel.”

#### Certificate of Documentation to Vessel Transporting Valueless Material in Coastwise Trade, or Dredged Material, Whether or Not of Value; Issuance, Endorsement, Etc.

[Pub. L. 100–329, § 5](/us/pl/100/329/s5), June 7, 1988, [102 Stat. 589](/us/stat/102/589), provided that: “Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1 of this Act [amending section 883 of the former Appendix to this title, from which this section was derived], the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may issue a certificate of documentation under section 12106 [see section 12112] of title 46, United States Code, to a vessel that—“(1) is engaged in transporting only valueless material in the coastwise trade or transporting dredged material, whether or not of value, (A) from a point or place on the high seas within the Exclusive Economic Zone as defined in the Presidential Proclamation of March 10, 1983 [[16 U.S.C. 1453](/us/usc/t16/s1453) note], to a point or place in the United States or to another point or place on the high seas within such Exclusive Economic Zone or (B) from a point or place within the United States to a point or place on the high seas within such Exclusive Economic Zone; “(2) had a certificate of documentation issued under section 12105 [see section 12111] of that title on October 1, 1987; “(3) had been sold foreign or placed under a foreign registry before that certificate was issued; and “(4) was built in the United States; except that such certificate of documentation shall be endorsed to restrict the use of such vessel to the transportation of valueless material in the coastwise trade, and to the transportation of dredged material, whether or not of value, (i) from a point or place on the high seas within such Exclusive Economic Zone to a point or place in the United States or to another point or place on the high seas within such Exclusive Economic Zone, or (ii) from a point or place within the United States to a point or place on the high seas within such Exclusive Economic Zone.”
