---
title: "§ 1397m–1. Adult protective services functions and grant programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1397m–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1397m–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2042, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6703(a)(1)(C)](/us/pl/111/148/tVI/s6703/a/1/C), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 794](/us/stat/124/794); amended [Pub. L. 115–70, title V, § 501](/us/pl/115/70/tV/s501), Oct. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1215](/us/stat/131/1215).)"
---
# § 1397m–1. Adult protective services functions and grant programs

##### § 1397m–1. Adult protective services functions and grant programs

(a) Secretarial responsibilities

(1) In general The Secretary shall ensure that the Department of Health and Human Services—

(A) provides funding authorized by this part to State and local adult protective services offices that investigate reports of the abuse, neglect, and exploitation of elders;

(B) collects and disseminates data annually relating to the abuse, exploitation, and neglect of elders in coordination with the Department of Justice;

(C) develops and disseminates information on best practices regarding, and provides training on, carrying out adult protective services;

(D) conducts research related to the provision of adult protective services; and

(E) provides technical assistance to States and other entities that provide or fund the provision of adult protective services, including through grants made under subsections (b) and (c).

(2) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection, $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2011 and $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2014.

(b) Grants to enhance the provision of adult protective services

(1) Establishment There is established an adult protective services grant program under which the Secretary shall annually award grants to States in the amounts calculated under paragraph (2) for the purposes of enhancing adult protective services provided by States and local units of government.

(2) Amount of payment

(A) In general Subject to the availability of appropriations and subparagraphs (B) and (C), the amount paid to a State for a fiscal year under the program under this subsection shall equal the amount appropriated for that year to carry out this subsection multiplied by the percentage of the total number of elders who reside in the United States who reside in that State.

(B) Guaranteed minimum payment amount

(i) 50 States Subject to clause (ii), if the amount determined under subparagraph (A) for a State for a fiscal year is less than 0.75 percent of the amount appropriated for such year, the Secretary shall increase such determined amount so that the total amount paid under this subsection to the State for the year is equal to 0.75 percent of the amount so appropriated.

(ii) Territories In the case of a State other than 1 of the 50 States, clause (i) shall be applied as if each reference to “0.75” were a reference to “0.1”.

(C) Pro rata reductions The Secretary shall make such pro rata reductions to the amounts described in subparagraph (A) as are necessary to comply with the requirements of subparagraph (B).

(3) Authorized activities

(A) Adult protective services Funds made available pursuant to this subsection may only be used by States and local units of government to provide adult protective services and may not be used for any other purpose.

(B) Use by agency Each State receiving funds pursuant to this subsection shall provide such funds to the agency or unit of State government having legal responsibility for providing adult protective services within the State.

(C) Supplement not supplant Each State or local unit of government shall use funds made available pursuant to this subsection to supplement and not supplant other Federal, State, and local public funds expended to provide adult protective services in the State.

(4) State reports Each State receiving funds under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary, at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may require, a report on the number of elders served by the grants awarded under this subsection.

(5) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection, $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2014.

(c) State demonstration programs

(1) Establishment The Secretary shall award grants to States (and, in the case of demonstration programs described in paragraph (2)(E), to the highest courts of States) for the purposes of conducting demonstration programs in accordance with paragraph (2).

(2) Demonstration programs Funds made available pursuant to this subsection may be used by States and local units of government (and the highest courts of States, in the case of demonstration programs described in subparagraph (E)) to conduct demonstration programs that test—

(A) training modules developed for the purpose of detecting or preventing elder abuse;

(B) methods to detect or prevent financial exploitation of elders;

(C) methods to detect elder abuse;

(D) whether training on elder abuse forensics enhances the detection of elder abuse by employees of the State or local unit of government;

(E) subject to paragraph (3), programs to assess the fairness, effectiveness, timeliness, safety, integrity, and accessibility of adult guardianship and conservatorship proceedings, including the appointment and the monitoring of the performance of court-appointed guardians and conservators, and to implement changes deemed necessary as a result of the assessments such as mandating background checks for all potential guardians and conservators, and implementing systems to enable the annual accountings and other required conservatorship and guardianship filings to be completed, filed, and reviewed electronically in order to simplify the filing process for conservators and guardians and better enable courts to identify discrepancies and detect fraud and the exploitation of protected persons; or

(F) other matters relating to the detection or prevention of elder abuse.

(3) Requirements for court-appointed guardianship oversight demonstration programs

(A) Award of grants In awarding grants to the highest courts of States for demonstration programs described in paragraph (2)(E), the Secretary shall consider the recommendations of the Attorney General and the State Justice Institute, as established by [section 10702 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10702).

(B) Collaboration The highest court of a State awarded a grant to conduct a demonstration program described in paragraph (2)(E) shall collaborate with the State Unit on Aging for the State and the Adult Protective Services agency for the State in conducting the demonstration program.

(4) Application To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, a State (and, in the case of demonstration programs described in paragraph (2)(E), the highest court of a State) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(5) State reports Each State (or, in the case of demonstration programs described in paragraph (2)(E), the highest court of a State) that receives funds under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary a report at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require on the results of the demonstration program conducted by the State (or, in the case of demonstration programs described in paragraph (2)(E), the highest court of a State) using funds made available under this subsection.

(6) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection, $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2014.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2042, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6703(a)(1)(C)](/us/pl/111/148/tVI/s6703/a/1/C), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 794](/us/stat/124/794); amended [Pub. L. 115–70, title V, § 501](/us/pl/115/70/tV/s501), Oct. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1215](/us/stat/131/1215).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–70, § 501(1)](/us/pl/115/70/s501/1), inserted “(and, in the case of demonstration programs described in paragraph (2)(E), to the highest courts of States)” after “States”.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 115–70, § 501(2)(A)](/us/pl/115/70/s501/2/A), inserted “(and the highest courts of States, in the case of demonstration programs described in subparagraph (E))” after “local units of government” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (c)(2)(E), (F). [Pub. L. 115–70, § 501(2)(B)](/us/pl/115/70/s501/2/B)–(D), inserted subpar. (E) and redesignated former subpar. (E) as (F).

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 115–70, § 501(4)](/us/pl/115/70/s501/4), added par. (3). Former par. (3) redesignated (4).

Subsec. (c)(4). [Pub. L. 115–70, § 501(3)](/us/pl/115/70/s501/3), (5), redesignated par. (3) as (4) and inserted “(and, in the case of demonstration programs described in paragraph (2)(E), the highest court of a State)” after “a State”. Former par. (4) redesignated (5).

Subsec. (c)(5). [Pub. L. 115–70, § 501(3)](/us/pl/115/70/s501/3), (6), redesignated par. (4) as (5) and inserted “(or, in the case of demonstration programs described in paragraph (2)(E), the highest court of a State)” after “State” in two places. Former par. (5) redesignated (6).

Subsec. (c)(6). [Pub. L. 115–70, § 501(3)](/us/pl/115/70/s501/3), redesignated par. (5) as (6).
