---
title: "§ 10105. Reports to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T46-S10105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section10105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXVI, § 11611(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXVI/s11611/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4155](/us/stat/136/4155).)"
---
# § 10105. Reports to Congress

##### § 10105. Reports to Congress

(a) In General.— Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022, and on an annual basis thereafter, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that includes—

(1) the number of reports received under section 10104;

(2) the number of penalties issued under such section;

(3) the number of open investigations under such section, completed investigations under such section, and the outcomes of such open or completed investigations;

(4) the number of assessments or audits conducted under section 3203 and the outcome of those assessments or audits;

(5) a statistical analysis of compliance with the safety management system criteria under section 3203;

(6) the number of credentials denied or revoked due to sexual harassment, sexual assault, or related offenses; and

(7) recommendations to support efforts of the Coast Guard to improve investigations and oversight of sexual harassment and sexual assault in the maritime sector, including funding requirements and legislative change proposals necessary to ensure compliance with title CXVI of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 and the amendments made by such title.

(b) Privacy.— In collecting the information required under subsection (a), the Commandant shall collect such information in a manner that protects the privacy rights of individuals who are subjects of such information.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXVI, § 11611(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXVI/s11611/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4155](/us/stat/136/4155).)*

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of division K of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), which was approved Dec. 23, 2022.

Title CXVI of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022, referred to subsec. (a)(7), is title CXVI of division K of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4145](/us/stat/136/4145). For complete classification of title CXVI to the Code, see Tables.
