---
title: "§ 713d–1. Critical shortages; recommendations by President; public hearings"
identifier: "USC-T15-S713d–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section713d–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Dec. 30, 1947, ch. 526, § 6](/us/act/1947-12-30/ch526/s6), [61 Stat. 947](/us/stat/61/947); [June 18, 1956, ch. 399, § 2](/us/act/1956-06-18/ch399/s2), [70 Stat. 290](/us/stat/70/290).)"
---
# § 713d–1. Critical shortages; recommendations by President; public hearings

##### § 713d–1. Critical shortages; recommendations by President; public hearings

(a) Whenever the President shall determine that there is or threatens to be a critical shortage of any raw material, commodity, or product which jeopardizes the health or safety of the people of the United States or its national security or welfare and that there is no prospect that such critical shortage may soon be remedied by an increase in the available supply without additional governmental action and that the situation cannot be solved by voluntary agreement under the provisions of this Act, he may prepare proposed measures for conserving such raw material, commodity, or product which he shall submit to the Congress in the following form:

(1) A statement of the circumstances which, in the President’s judgment, require the proposed conservation measures.

(2) A detailed procedure for the administration of the proposed measures including the additional budget and additional personnel required for their enforcement.

(3) The proposed degree of curtailment in current and prospective use of each such raw material, commodity, or product by each processor and/or user thereof, including the specific formulae proposed for such curtailment with respect to each class or classes of processors or users and the criteria used in the establishment of such formulae.

(4) A complete record of the factual evidence upon which his recommendations are based, including all information provided by any agency of the Federal Government which may have been made available to him in the course of his consideration of the matter.

(b) Within fifteen days after the submission of such proposed conservation measures, the Joint Economic Committee shall conduct public hearings thereon and shall make such recommendations to the Congress for legislative action as in its judgment the recommendations of the President and any additional information disclosed at the public hearings may require.

*([Dec. 30, 1947, ch. 526, § 6](/us/act/1947-12-30/ch526/s6), [61 Stat. 947](/us/stat/61/947); [June 18, 1956, ch. 399, § 2](/us/act/1956-06-18/ch399/s2), [70 Stat. 290](/us/stat/70/290).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, means [act Dec. 30, 1947, ch. 526](/us/act/1947-12-30/ch526), [61 Stat. 945](/us/stat/61/945). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1916 of the former Appendix to Title 50, War and National Defense, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1956—Subsec. (b). Act June 18, 1956, changed “Joint Committee on the Economic Report” to “Joint Economic Committee”.
