---
title: "§ 20119. Study on use of certain reports and surveys"
identifier: "USC-T49-S20119"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section20119"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. A, title I, § 109(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dA/tI/s109/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4867](/us/stat/122/4867).)"
---
# § 20119. Study on use of certain reports and surveys

##### § 20119. Study on use of certain reports and surveys

(a) Study.— The Federal Railroad Administration shall complete a study to evaluate whether it is in the public interest, including public safety and the legal rights of persons injured in railroad accidents, to withhold from discovery or admission into evidence in a Federal or State court proceeding for damages involving personal injury or wrongful death against a carrier any report, survey, schedule, list, or data compiled or collected for the purpose of evaluating, planning, or implementing a railroad safety risk reduction program required under this chapter, including a railroad carrier’s analysis of its safety risks and its statement of the mitigation measures with which it will address those risks. In conducting this study, the Secretary shall solicit input from the railroads, railroad non-profit employee labor organizations, railroad accident victims and their families, and the general public.

(b) Authority.— Following completion of the study required under subsection (a), the Secretary, if in the public interest, including public safety and the legal rights of persons injured in railroad accidents, may prescribe a rule subject to notice and comment to address the results of the study. Any such rule prescribed pursuant to this subsection shall not become effective until 1 year after its adoption.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–432, div. A, title I, § 109(a)](/us/pl/110/432/dA/tI/s109/a), Oct. 16, 2008, [122 Stat. 4867](/us/stat/122/4867).)*
