---
title: "§ 1638. National Environmental Policy Act"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1638"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1638"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–487, title IX, § 910](/us/pl/96/487/tIX/s910), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2447](/us/stat/94/2447).)"
---
# § 1638. National Environmental Policy Act

##### § 1638. National Environmental Policy Act

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ([83 Stat. 852](/us/stat/83/852)) [[42 U.S.C. 4321](/us/usc/t42/s4321) et seq.] shall not be construed, in whole or in part, as requiring the preparation or submission of an environmental impact statement for withdrawals, conveyances, regulations, orders, easement determinations, or other actions which lead to the issuance of conveyances to Natives or Native Corporations, pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [[43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.], or this Act. Nothing in this section shall be construed as affirming or denying the validity of any withdrawals by the Secretary under section 14(h)(3) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [[43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(3)](/us/usc/t43/s1613/h/3)].

*([Pub. L. 96–487, title IX, § 910](/us/pl/96/487/tIX/s910), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2447](/us/stat/94/2447).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 91–190](/us/pl/91/190), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 852](/us/stat/83/852), which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4321 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4321) and Tables.

The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 92–203](/us/pl/92/203), Dec. 18, 1971, [85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1601) and Tables.

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 96–487](/us/pl/96/487), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2371](/us/stat/94/2371), known as the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3101 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s3101), Conservation, and Tables.
