---
title: "§ 5513. Withholding pay; credit disallowed or charge raised for payment"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5513"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5513"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 477](/us/stat/80/477); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)"
---
# § 5513. Withholding pay; credit disallowed or charge raised for payment

##### § 5513. Withholding pay; credit disallowed or charge raised for payment

When the Government Accountability Office, on a statement of the account of a disbursing or certifying official of the United States, disallows credit or raises a charge for a payment to an individual in or under an Executive agency otherwise entitled to pay, the pay of the payee shall be withheld in whole or in part until full reimbursement is made under regulations prescribed by the head of the Executive agency from which the payee is entitled to receive pay. This section does not repeal or modify existing statutes relating to the collection of the indebtedness of an accountable, certifying, or disbursing official.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 477](/us/stat/80/477); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)*

The words “On and after May 26, 1936” are omitted as executed. The word “official” is substituted for “officer” and “officers” as the definition of “officer” in section 2104 excludes a member of a uniformed service. The words “from the United States or from an agency or instrumentality thereof” are omitted as unnecessary.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 46b. | May 26, 1936, ch. 452, 49 Stat. 1374.Aug. 3, 1950, ch. 515, 64 Stat. 393. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—[Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271) substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office”.
