---
title: "§ 3239. Requirement to buy certain satellite component from American sources"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3239"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3239"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1109, as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title III, § 308(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tIII/s308/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2368](/us/stat/134/2368).)"
---
# § 3239. Requirement to buy certain satellite component from American sources

##### § 3239. Requirement to buy certain satellite component from American sources

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Covered element of the intelligence community The term “covered element of the intelligence community” means an element of the intelligence community that is not an element of the Department of Defense.

(2) National security satellite The term “national security satellite” means a satellite weighing over 400 pounds whose principle purpose is to support the national security or intelligence needs of the United States Government.

(3) United States The term “United States” means the several States, the District of Columbia, and the territories and possessions of the United States.

(b) Requirement Beginning January 1, 2021, except as provided in subsection (c), a covered element of the intelligence community may not award a contract for a national security satellite if the satellite uses a star tracker that is not produced in the United States, including with respect to both the software and the hardware of the star tracker.

(c) Exception The head of a covered element of the intelligence community may waive the requirement under subsection (b) if, on a case-by-case basis, the head certifies in writing to the congressional intelligence committees that—

(1) there is no available star tracker produced in the United States that meets the mission and design requirements of the national security satellite for which the star tracker will be used;

(2) the cost of a star tracker produced in the United States is unreasonable, based on a market survey; or

(3) such waiver is necessary for the national security interests of the United States based on an urgent and compelling need.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1109, as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title III, § 308(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tIII/s308/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2368](/us/stat/134/2368).)*
