---
title: "§ 300a–7. Sterilization or abortion"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300a–7"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300a–7"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–45, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/93/45/tIV/s401), June 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 95](/us/stat/87/95); [Pub. L. 93–348, title II, § 214](/us/pl/93/348/tII/s214), July 12, 1974, [88 Stat. 353](/us/stat/88/353); [Pub. L. 96–76, title II, § 208](/us/pl/96/76/tII/s208), Sept. 29, 1979, [93 Stat. 583](/us/stat/93/583); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695); [Pub. L. 106–402, title IV, § 401(b)(5)](/us/pl/106/402/tIV/s401/b/5), Oct."
---
# § 300a–7. Sterilization or abortion

##### § 300a–7. Sterilization or abortion

(a) Omitted

(b) Prohibition of public officials and public authorities from imposition of certain requirements contrary to religious beliefs or moral convictions The receipt of any grant, contract, loan, or loan guarantee under the Public Health Service Act [[42 U.S.C. 201](/us/usc/t42/s201) et seq.], the Community Mental Health Centers Act [[42 U.S.C. 2689](/us/usc/t42/s2689) et seq.], or the Developmental Disabilities Services and Facilities Construction Act [[42 U.S.C. 6000](/us/usc/t42/s6000) et seq.] by any individual or entity does not authorize any court or any public official or other public authority to require—

(1) such individual to perform or assist in the performance of any sterilization procedure or abortion if his performance or assistance in the performance of such procedure or abortion would be contrary to his religious beliefs or moral convictions; or

(2) such entity to—

(A) make its facilities available for the performance of any sterilization procedure or abortion if the performance of such procedure or abortion in such facilities is prohibited by the entity on the basis of religious beliefs or moral convictions, or

(B) provide any personnel for the performance or assistance in the performance of any sterilization procedure or abortion if the performance or assistance in the performance of such procedures or abortion by such personnel would be contrary to the religious beliefs or moral convictions of such personnel.

(c) Discrimination prohibition

(1) No entity which receives a grant, contract, loan, or loan guarantee under the Public Health Service Act [[42 U.S.C. 201](/us/usc/t42/s201) et seq.], the Community Mental Health Centers Act [[42 U.S.C. 2689](/us/usc/t42/s2689) et seq.], or the Developmental Disabilities Services and Facilities Construction Act [[42 U.S.C. 6000](/us/usc/t42/s6000) et seq.] after June 18, 1973, may—

because he performed or assisted in the performance of a lawful sterilization procedure or abortion, because he refused to perform or assist in the performance of such a procedure or abortion on the grounds that his performance or assistance in the performance of the procedure or abortion would be contrary to his religious beliefs or moral convictions, or because of his religious beliefs or moral convictions respecting sterilization procedures or abortions.

(A) discriminate in the employment, promotion, or termination of employment of any physician or other health care personnel, or

(B) discriminate in the extension of staff or other privileges to any physician or other health care personnel,

(2) No entity which receives after July 12, 1974, a grant or contract for biomedical or behavioral research under any program administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services may—

because he performed or assisted in the performance of any lawful health service or research activity, because he refused to perform or assist in the performance of any such service or activity on the grounds that his performance or assistance in the performance of such service or activity would be contrary to his religious beliefs or moral convictions, or because of his religious beliefs or moral convictions respecting any such service or activity.

(A) discriminate in the employment, promotion, or termination of employment of any physician or other health care personnel, or

(B) discriminate in the extension of staff or other privileges to any physician or other health care personnel,

(d) Individual rights respecting certain requirements contrary to religious beliefs or moral convictions No individual shall be required to perform or assist in the performance of any part of a health service program or research activity funded in whole or in part under a program administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services if his performance or assistance in the performance of such part of such program or activity would be contrary to his religious beliefs or moral convictions.

(e) Prohibition on entities receiving Federal grant, etc., from discriminating against applicants for training or study because of refusal of applicant to participate on religious or moral grounds No entity which receives, after September 29, 1979, any grant, contract, loan, loan guarantee, or interest subsidy under the Public Health Service Act [[42 U.S.C. 201](/us/usc/t42/s201) et seq.], the Community Mental Health Centers Act [[42 U.S.C. 2689](/us/usc/t42/s2689) et seq.], or the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 [[42 U.S.C. 15001](/us/usc/t42/s15001) et seq.] may deny admission or otherwise discriminate against any applicant (including applicants for internships and residencies) for training or study because of the applicant’s reluctance, or willingness, to counsel, suggest, recommend, assist, or in any way participate in the performance of abortions or sterilizations contrary to or consistent with the applicant’s religious beliefs or moral convictions.

*([Pub. L. 93–45, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/93/45/tIV/s401), June 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 95](/us/stat/87/95); [Pub. L. 93–348, title II, § 214](/us/pl/93/348/tII/s214), July 12, 1974, [88 Stat. 353](/us/stat/88/353); [Pub. L. 96–76, title II, § 208](/us/pl/96/76/tII/s208), Sept. 29, 1979, [93 Stat. 583](/us/stat/93/583); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695); [Pub. L. 106–402, title IV, § 401(b)(5)](/us/pl/106/402/tIV/s401/b/5), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1738](/us/stat/114/1738).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Public Health Service Act, referred to in subsecs. (b), (c)(1), and (e), is [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), [58 Stat. 682](/us/stat/58/682), which is classified generally to this chapter (§ 201 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.

The Community Mental Health Centers Act, referred to in subsecs. (b), (c)(1), and (e), is title II of [Pub. L. 88–164](/us/pl/88/164), as added [Pub. L. 94–63, title III, § 303](/us/pl/94/63/tIII/s303), July 29, 1975, [89 Stat. 309](/us/stat/89/309), and amended, which was classified principally to subchapter III (§ 2689 et seq.) of chapter 33 of this title prior to its repeal by [Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 902(e)(2)(B)](/us/pl/97/35/tIX/s902/e/2/B), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 560](/us/stat/95/560).

The Developmental Disabilities Services and Facilities Construction Act, referred to in subsecs. (b) and (c)(1), is title I of [Pub. L. 88–164](/us/pl/88/164), Oct. 31, 1963, [77 Stat. 282](/us/stat/77/282), as renamed by [Pub. L. 91–518, title II, § 207(a)](/us/pl/91/518/tII/s207/a), Oct. 30, 1970, [84 Stat. 1327](/us/stat/84/1327). Title I of [Pub. L. 88–164](/us/pl/88/164), which was subsequently renamed the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act by [Pub. L. 95–602, title V, § 502](/us/pl/95/602/tV/s502), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 3003](/us/stat/92/3003), and amended generally by [Pub. L. 98–527, § 2](/us/pl/98/527/s2), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2662](/us/stat/98/2662), was classified generally to chapter 75 (§ 6000 et seq.) of this title, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 106–402, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/106/402/tIV/s401/a), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1737](/us/stat/114/1737). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000, referred to in subsec. (e), is [Pub. L. 106–402](/us/pl/106/402), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/114/1677), which is classified principally to chapter 144 (§ 15001 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 15001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15001) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of Health Programs Extension Act of 1973, and not as part of Public Health Services Act which comprises this chapter.

Subsec. (a) of this section amended [section 601 of Pub. L. 91–296](/us/pl/91/296/s601), which is set out as an Availability of Appropriations note under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201).

#### Amendments

2000—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 106–402](/us/pl/106/402) substituted “or the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 may deny” for “or the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act may deny”.

1979—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 96–76](/us/pl/96/76) added subsec. (e).

1974—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 93–348, § 214](/us/pl/93/348/s214), designated existing provisions as par. (1), redesignated pars. (1) and (2) of such provisions as subpars. (A) and (B), and added par. (2).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 93–348, § 214(b)](/us/pl/93/348/s214/b), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsecs. (c)(2) and (d) pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.
