---
title: "§ 7601. Availability of contact lens prescriptions to patients"
identifier: "USC-T15-S7601"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section7601"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–164, § 2](/us/pl/108/164/s2), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2024](/us/stat/117/2024).)"
---
# § 7601. Availability of contact lens prescriptions to patients

##### § 7601. Availability of contact lens prescriptions to patients

(a) In general When a prescriber completes a contact lens fitting, the prescriber—

(1) whether or not requested by the patient, shall provide to the patient a copy of the contact lens prescription; and

(2) shall, as directed by any person designated to act on behalf of the patient, provide or verify the contact lens prescription by electronic or other means.

(b) Limitations A prescriber may not—

(1) require purchase of contact lenses from the prescriber or from another person as a condition of providing a copy of a prescription under subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) or verification of a prescription under subsection (a)(2);

(2) require payment in addition to, or as part of, the fee for an eye examination, fitting, and evaluation as a condition of providing a copy of a prescription under subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) or verification of a prescription under subsection (a)(2); or

(3) require the patient to sign a waiver or release as a condition of verifying or releasing a prescription.

*([Pub. L. 108–164, § 2](/us/pl/108/164/s2), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2024](/us/stat/117/2024).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 108–164, § 12](/us/pl/108/164/s12), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2028](/us/stat/117/2028), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter and provisions set out as a note below] shall take effect 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 6, 2003].”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 108–164, § 1](/us/pl/108/164/s1), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2024](/us/stat/117/2024), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter and provisions set out as a note above] may be cited as the ‘Fairness to Contact Lens Consumers Act’.”
