---
title: "§ 2313a. Designation of transactions of sanctioned persons as of primary money laundering concern"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2313a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2313a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXII, § 7213A](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXII/s7213A), as added [Pub. L. 118–50, div. E, title II, § 3201(a)](/us/pl/118/50/dE/tII/s3201/a), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 940](/us/stat/138/940).)"
---
# § 2313a. Designation of transactions of sanctioned persons as of primary money laundering concern

##### § 2313a. Designation of transactions of sanctioned persons as of primary money laundering concern

(a) In general If the Secretary of the Treasury determines that reasonable grounds exist for concluding that 1 or more financial institutions operating outside of the United States, 1 or more classes of transactions within, or involving, a jurisdiction outside of the United States, or 1 or more types of accounts within, or involving, a jurisdiction outside of the United States, is of primary money laundering concern in connection with illicit opioid trafficking, the Secretary of the Treasury may, by order, regulation, or otherwise as permitted by law—

(1) require domestic financial institutions and domestic financial agencies to take 1 or more of the special measures provided for in section 9714(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ([Public Law 116–283](/us/pl/116/283); [31 U.S.C. 5318A](/us/usc/t31/s5318A) note); or

(2) prohibit, or impose conditions upon, certain transmittals of funds (to be defined by the Secretary) by any domestic financial institution or domestic financial agency, if such transmittal of funds involves any such institution, class of transaction, or type of accounts.

(b) Classified information In any judicial review of a finding of the existence of a primary money laundering concern, or of the requirement for 1 or more special measures with respect to a primary money laundering concern made under this section, if the designation or imposition, or both, were based on classified information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)), such information may be submitted by the Secretary to the reviewing court ex parte and in camera. This subsection does not confer or imply any right to judicial review of any finding made or any requirement imposed under this section.

(c) Availability of information The exemptions from, and prohibitions on, search and disclosure referred to in section 9714(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ([Public Law 116–283](/us/pl/116/283); [31 U.S.C. 5318A](/us/usc/t31/s5318A) note) shall apply to any report or record of report filed pursuant to a requirement imposed under subsection (a). For purposes of [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552), this subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section.

(d) Penalties The penalties referred to in section 9714(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ([Public Law 116–283](/us/pl/116/283); [31 U.S.C. 5318A](/us/usc/t31/s5318A) note) shall apply to violations of any order, regulation, special measure, or other requirement imposed under subsection (a), in the same manner and to the same extent as described in such section 9714(d).

(e) Injunctions The Secretary of the Treasury may bring a civil action to enjoin a violation of any order, regulation, special measure, or other requirement imposed under subsection (a) in the same manner and to the same extent as described in section 9714(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ([Public Law 116–283](/us/pl/116/283); [31 U.S.C. 5318A](/us/usc/t31/s5318A) note).

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXII, § 7213A](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXII/s7213A), as added [Pub. L. 118–50, div. E, title II, § 3201(a)](/us/pl/118/50/dE/tII/s3201/a), Apr. 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 940](/us/stat/138/940).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 96–456](/us/pl/96/456/s1/a), Oct. 15, 1980, [94 Stat. 2025](/us/stat/94/2025), which is set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
