---
title: "§ 752. Treatment of certain liabilities"
identifier: "USC-T26-S752"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section752"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 251](/us/stat/68A/251).)"
---
# § 752. Treatment of certain liabilities

##### § 752. Treatment of certain liabilities

(a) Increase in partner’s liabilities Any increase in a partner’s share of the liabilities of a partnership, or any increase in a partner’s individual liabilities by reason of the assumption by such partner of partnership liabilities, shall be considered as a contribution of money by such partner to the partnership.

(b) Decrease in partner’s liabilities Any decrease in a partner’s share of the liabilities of a partnership, or any decrease in a partner’s individual liabilities by reason of the assumption by the partnership of such individual liabilities, shall be considered as a distribution of money to the partner by the partnership.

(c) Liability to which property is subject For purposes of this section, a liability to which property is subject shall, to the extent of the fair market value of such property, be considered as a liability of the owner of the property.

(d) Sale or exchange of an interest In the case of a sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership, liabilities shall be treated in the same manner as liabilities in connection with the sale or exchange of property not associated with partnerships.

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 251](/us/stat/68A/251).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Overruling of Raphan Case

[Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title I, § 79](/us/pl/98/369/dA/tI/s79), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 597](/us/stat/98/597), as amended by [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095), provided that: “(a) General Rule.—Section 752 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [formerly I.R.C. 1954] (and the regulations prescribed thereunder) shall be applied without regard to the result reached in the case of Raphan vs the United States, 3 Cl. Ct. 457 (1983). “(b) Regulations.—In amending the regulations prescribed under section 752 of such Code to reflect subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate shall prescribe regulations relating to liabilities, including the treatment of guarantees, assumptions, indemnity agreements, and similar arrangements.”
