---
title: "§ 1434. Encouragement of production of crops of which United States is a net importer and for which price support programs are not in effect; authority to plant on set-aside acreage with no reduction in payment rate"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1434"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1434"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–524, title VIII, § 814](/us/pl/91/524/tVIII/s814), as added [Pub. L. 93–86, § 1(27)(B)](/us/pl/93/86/s1/27/B), Aug. 10, 1973, [87 Stat. 240](/us/stat/87/240).)"
---
# § 1434. Encouragement of production of crops of which United States is a net importer and for which price support programs are not in effect; authority to plant on set-aside acreage with no reduction in payment rate

##### § 1434. Encouragement of production of crops of which United States is a net importer and for which price support programs are not in effect; authority to plant on set-aside acreage with no reduction in payment rate

Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, the Secretary shall encourage the production of any crop of which the United States is a net importer and for which a price support program is not in effect by permitting the planting of such crop on set-aside acreage and with no reduction in the rate of payment for the commodity.

*([Pub. L. 91–524, title VIII, § 814](/us/pl/91/524/tVIII/s814), as added [Pub. L. 93–86, § 1(27)(B)](/us/pl/93/86/s1/27/B), Aug. 10, 1973, [87 Stat. 240](/us/stat/87/240).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 91–524](/us/pl/91/524), Nov. 30, 1970, [84 Stat. 1358](/us/stat/84/1358), known as the Agricultural Act of 1970. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1970 Amendment note set out under [section 1281 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1281) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agricultural Act of 1970 as added by the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973, and not as part of the Agricultural Act of 1949 which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of the 1949 Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1421 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1421) and Tables.
