---
title: "§ 949p–1. Protection of classified information: applicability of subchapter"
identifier: "USC-T10-S949p–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section949p–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title XVIII, § 1802](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tXVIII/s1802), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2590](/us/stat/123/2590).)"
---
# § 949p–1. Protection of classified information: applicability of subchapter

##### § 949p–1. Protection of classified information: applicability of subchapter

(a) Protection of Classified Information.— Classified information shall be protected and is privileged from disclosure if disclosure would be detrimental to the national security. Under no circumstances may a military judge order the release of classified information to any person not authorized to receive such information.

(b) Access to Evidence.— Any information admitted into evidence pursuant to any rule, procedure, or order by the military judge shall be provided to the accused.

(c) Declassification.— Trial counsel shall work with the original classification authorities for evidence that may be used at trial to ensure that such evidence is declassified to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the requirements of national security. A decision not to declassify evidence under this section shall not be subject to review by a military commission or upon appeal.

(d) Construction of Provisions.— The judicial construction of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.) shall be authoritative in the interpretation of this subchapter, except to the extent that such construction is inconsistent with the specific requirements of this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title XVIII, § 1802](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tXVIII/s1802), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2590](/us/stat/123/2590).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Classified Information Procedures Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is [Pub. L. 96–456](/us/pl/96/456), Oct. 15, 1980, [94 Stat. 2025](/us/stat/94/2025), which is set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
