---
title: "§ 3519. Special rules for disability retirement and death-in-service benefits with respect to certain employees"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3519"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3519"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 19](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s19), as added [Pub. L. 101–193, title III, § 307(a)](/us/pl/101/193/tIII/s307/a), Nov. 30, 1989, [103 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/103/1705); amended [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 803(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s803/a/3), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3252](/us/stat/106/3252); [Pub. L. 103–178, title V, § 501(3)](/us/pl/103/178/tV/s501/3), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2038](/us/stat/107/2038); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title IX, § 7901(g)(5)](/us/pl/11"
---
# § 3519. Special rules for disability retirement and death-in-service benefits with respect to certain employees

##### § 3519. Special rules for disability retirement and death-in-service benefits with respect to certain employees

(a) Officers and employees to whom section 2051 rules apply Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an officer or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system coverage under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5 who—

shall, upon his own application or upon order of the Director, be retired on an annuity computed in accordance with the rules prescribed in [section 2051 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2051), in lieu of an annuity computed as provided by [section 8337 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8337).

(1) has five years of civilian service credit toward retirement under such subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5;

(2) has not been designated under [section 2013 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2013) as a participant in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System;

(3) has become disabled during a period of assignment to the performance of duties that are qualifying toward such designation under such [section 2013 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2013); and

(4) satisfies the requirements for disability retirement under [section 8337 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8337)—

(b) Survivors of officers and employees to whom section 2052 rules apply Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of an officer or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system coverage under subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, who—

such surviving spouse, former spouse, or child of such officer or employee shall be entitled to an annuity computed in accordance with [section 2052 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2052), in lieu of an annuity computed in accordance with [section 8341 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8341).

(1) has at least eighteen months of civilian service credit toward retirement under such subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5;

(2) has not been designated under [section 2013 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2013),11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. as a participant in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System;

(3) prior to separation or retirement from the Agency, dies during a period of assignment to the performance of duties that are qualifying toward such designation under such [section 2013 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2013); and

(4) is survived by a surviving spouse, former spouse, or child as defined in [section 2002 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2002), who would otherwise be entitled to an annuity under [section 8341 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8341)—

(c) Annuities under this section deemed annuities under chapter 83 of title 5 The annuities provided under subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be deemed to be annuities under chapter 83 of title 5 for purposes of the other provisions of such chapter and other laws (including title 26) relating to such annuities, and shall be payable from the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund maintained pursuant to [section 2012 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2012).

*([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 19](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s19), as added [Pub. L. 101–193, title III, § 307(a)](/us/pl/101/193/tIII/s307/a), Nov. 30, 1989, [103 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/103/1705); amended [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 803(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s803/a/3), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3252](/us/stat/106/3252); [Pub. L. 103–178, title V, § 501(3)](/us/pl/103/178/tV/s501/3), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2038](/us/stat/107/2038); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title IX, § 7901(g)(5)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIX/s7901/g/5), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/137/1107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403s of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403s) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers of this title referenced in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections prior to their editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) substituted “as a participant” for “, as a participant”.

1993—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–178, § 501(3)(A)](/us/pl/103/178/s501/3/A), (C), substituted “section 2052” for “section 2051” in heading and concluding provisions.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 103–178, § 501(3)(B)](/us/pl/103/178/s501/3/B), made technical amendment to reference to [section 2013 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2013) to update reference to corresponding section of original act.

1992—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–496, § 803(a)(3)(A)](/us/pl/102/496/s803/a/3/A), inserted heading, redesignated cl. (i) as par. (1), in cl. (ii), substituted reference to [section 2013 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2013) for reference in original to section 203 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended, which was formerly set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403), and redesignated such cl. as par. (2), in cl. (iii), inserted “such” before reference to [section 2013 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2013) and redesignated such cl. as par. (3), redesignated cl. (iv) as par. (4), and substituted reference to [section 2051 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2051) for “such section 231” in concluding provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–496, § 803(a)(3)(B)(i)](/us/pl/102/496/s803/a/3/B/i), (ii), (iv)–(vi), inserted heading, redesignated cl. (i) as par. (1), in cl. (ii), substituted reference to [section 2013 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2013) for reference in original to section 203 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended, which was formerly set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403), and redesignated cl. (ii) as par. (2), redesignated cls. (iii) and (iv) as pars. (3) and (4), respectively, and in concluding provisions, substituted “surviving spouse, former spouse, or child” for “widow or widower, former spouse, and/or child or children” and substituted reference to [section 2051 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2051) for “such section 232”.

[Pub. L. 102–496, § 803(a)(3)(B)(iii)](/us/pl/102/496/s803/a/3/B/iii), which directed the substitution of “surviving spouse, former spouse, or child as defined in [section 2002 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2002)” in cl. (iv) for “widow or widower, former spouse, and/or child or children as defined in section 204 and section 232 of such the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees”, was executed by making the substitution for “widow or widower, former spouse, and/or a child or children as defined in section 204 and section 232 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 102–496, § 803(a)(3)(D)(i)](/us/pl/102/496/s803/a/3/D/i)–(iii), inserted heading, struck out par. (1) designation before “The annuities provided”, substituted “maintained pursuant to [section 2012 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2012)” for “established by section 202 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees”, and struck out par. (2) which read as follows: “The annuities and/or other benefits provided under subsections (c) and (d) of this section shall be deemed to be annuities and/or benefits under chapter 84 of title 5 for purposes of the other provisions of such chapter and other laws (including title 26) relating to such annuities and/or benefits, but shall be payable from the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund established by section 202 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees.”

[Pub. L. 102–496, § 803(a)(3)(C)](/us/pl/102/496/s803/a/3/C), (D), redesignated subsec. (e) as (c) and struck out former subsec. (c) which provided for retirement of officers and employees of the Central Intelligence Agency as though designated pursuant to [section 302(a) of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s302/a) which was formerly set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 102–496, § 803(a)(3)(C)](/us/pl/102/496/s803/a/3/C), struck out subsec. (d) which provided that survivors of officers and employees of the Central Intelligence Agency were to receive benefits as though deceased had been designated pursuant to [section 302(a) of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s302/a), which was formerly set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 102–496, § 803(a)(3)(D)](/us/pl/102/496/s803/a/3/D), redesignated subsec. (e) as (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496) effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).
