---
title: "§ 543. Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs"
identifier: "USC-T38-S543"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section543"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–405, title I, § 105(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/tI/s105/b/1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1975](/us/stat/106/1975).)"
---
# § 543. Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs

##### § 543. Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs

(a) There is in the Department an advisory committee known as the Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(b) The objectives and scope of activities of the Committee shall relate to—

(1) prosthetics and special-disabilities programs administered by the Secretary;

(2) the coordination of programs of the Department for the development and testing of, and for information exchange regarding, prosthetic devices;

(3) the coordination of Department and non-Department programs that involve the development and testing of prosthetic devices; and

(4) the adequacy of funding for the prosthetics and special-disabilities programs of the Department.

(c) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the advice of the Committee on the matters described in subsection (b).

(d) Not later than January 15 of 1993, 1994, and 1995, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary and the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the effectiveness of the prosthetics and special-disabilities programs administered by the Secretary during the preceding fiscal year. Not more than 60 days after the date on which any such report is received by the Secretary, the Secretary shall submit a report to such committees commenting on the report of the Committee.

(e) As used in this section, the term “special-disabilities programs” includes all programs administered by the Secretary for—

(1) spinal-cord-injured veterans;

(2) blind veterans;

(3) veterans who have lost or lost the use of extremities;

(4) hearing-impaired veterans; and

(5) other veterans with serious incapacities in terms of daily life functions.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–405, title I, § 105(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/405/tI/s105/b/1), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1975](/us/stat/106/1975).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior section 543 was renumbered [section 1543 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1543).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

[Pub. L. 102–405, title I, § 105(a)](/us/pl/102/405/tI/s105/a), Oct. 9, 1992, [106 Stat. 1975](/us/stat/106/1975), provided that: “The Federal advisory committee established by the Secretary and known as the Prosthetics Service Advisory Committee shall after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 9, 1992] be known as the Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs and shall operate as though such committee had been established by law. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Committee may, upon the enactment of this Act, meet and act on any matter covered by subsection (b) of [section 543 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s543), United States Code, as added by subsection (b) of this section.”

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
