---
title: "§ 3303. Designation of depositaries"
identifier: "USC-T31-S3303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section3303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 949](/us/stat/96/949).)"
---
# § 3303. Designation of depositaries

##### § 3303. Designation of depositaries

(a) The Secretary of the Treasury designates depositaries of money as provided in this section and under other law.

(b) When necessary to carry out the business of the United States Government and under conditions the Secretary decides are necessary, the Secretary may designate depositaries in foreign countries and in territories and possessions of the United States to receive deposits of public money. The Secretary shall give preference to United States financial institutions the Secretary decides are safe and able to give the service required.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 949](/us/stat/96/949).)*

Subsection (a) is added to inform the reader that there are numerous other laws providing for the designation of depositaries. These other laws are scattered throughout the titles of the United States Code.

In subsection (b), the words “carry out” are substituted for “transaction” for consistency. The words “terms and . . . as to security and otherwise” and “of public moneys” are omitted as surplus. The words “territories and possessions of the United States” are substituted for “Territories and insular possessions of the United States” for consistency. The words “to receive deposits of public money” are added for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 3303(a) | (no source). |  |
| 3303(b) | 31:473. | June 19, 1922, ch. 228, 42 Stat. 662. |
