---
title: "§ 143. Registrar; designation; station; supervision by Secretary of Commerce"
identifier: "USC-T15-S143"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section143"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Sept. 19, 1922, ch. 346, § 3](/us/act/1922-09-19/ch346/s3), [42 Stat. 850](/us/stat/42/850); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 1(d), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1431](/us/stat/53/1431).)"
---
# § 143. Registrar; designation; station; supervision by Secretary of Commerce

##### § 143. Registrar; designation; station; supervision by Secretary of Commerce

The Secretary of Commerce may authorize such Foreign Service officer as Secretary of State shall make available to perform duties of China Trade Act Registrar under his direction. The official station of the registrar shall be in China at a place to be designated by the Secretary. All functions vested in the registrar by this chapter shall be administered by him under the supervision of the Secretary; except that upon appeal to the Secretary in such manner as he shall by regulation prescribe, any action of the registrar may be affirmed, modified, or set aside by the Secretary as he deems advisable.

*([Sept. 19, 1922, ch. 346, § 3](/us/act/1922-09-19/ch346/s3), [42 Stat. 850](/us/stat/42/850); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 1(d), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1431](/us/stat/53/1431).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Secretary of Commerce may authorize such Foreign Service officer as Secretary of State shall make available to perform duties of China Trade Act Registrar under direction of Secretary of Commerce to conform to 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Responsibilities of Secretary of Commerce with regard to China Trade Act Registrar are exercised by Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Commerce in Domestic and International Business Administration of the Department of Commerce, with the power of redelegation.
