---
title: "§ 2219. Assistance to Consumer Product Safety Commission"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2219"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2219"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–498, § 22](/us/pl/93/498/s22), Oct. 29, 1974, [88 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/88/1549).)"
---
# § 2219. Assistance to Consumer Product Safety Commission

##### § 2219. Assistance to Consumer Product Safety Commission

Upon request, the Administrator shall assist the Consumer Product Safety Commission in the development of fire safety standards or codes for consumer products, as defined in the Consumer Product Safety Act ([15 U.S.C. 2051](/us/usc/t15/s2051) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 93–498, § 22](/us/pl/93/498/s22), Oct. 29, 1974, [88 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/88/1549).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Consumer Product Safety Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 92–573](/us/pl/92/573), Oct. 27, 1972, [86 Stat. 1207](/us/stat/86/1207), which is classified generally to chapter 47 (§ 2051 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2051) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see [section 315(a)(1) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s315/a/1), Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of National Fire Prevention and Control Administration [now United States Fire Administration] and National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control generally transferred to Federal Emergency Management Agency. For further details see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 2202 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2202).
