---
title: "§ 3641. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3641"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3641"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1201](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1201), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 461](/us/stat/93/461).)"
---
# § 3641. Definitions

##### § 3641. Definitions

(1) “Executive agency” has the meaning given that term in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105);

(2) “uniformed services” has the meaning given that term in [section 2101(3) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2101/3);

(3) “competitive service” has the meaning given that term in [section 2102 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2102); and

(4) “United States”, when used in a geographic sense, means each of the several States and the District of Columbia.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1201](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1201), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 461](/us/stat/93/461).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Employment of Commission Employees by Government of Panama

[Pub. L. 103–160, div. C, title XXXV, § 3504](/us/pl/103/160/dC/tXXXV/s3504), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1965](/us/stat/107/1965), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(c)(32)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/c/32), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4358](/us/stat/136/4358), provided that: “(a) Consent of Congress.—Subject to subsection (b), the Congress consents to employees of the Panama Canal Commission who are not citizens of the United States accepting civil employment with agencies and organizations affiliated with the Government of Panama (and compensation for that employment) for which the consent of Congress is required by the 8th clause of section 9 of article I of the Constitution of the United States, relating to acceptance of emolument, office, or title from a foreign State. “(b) Condition.—Employees described in subsection (a) may accept employment described in such subsection (and compensation for that employment) only if the employment is approved by the designated agency ethics official of the Panama Canal Commission designated pursuant to chapter 131 of title 5, United States Code, and by the Administrator of the Panama Canal Commission.”
