---
title: "§ 781. Comprehensive energy plan"
identifier: "USC-T15-S781"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section781"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–275, § 22](/us/pl/93/275/s22), May 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 113](/us/stat/88/113).)"
---
# § 781. Comprehensive energy plan

##### § 781. Comprehensive energy plan

(a) Report to President and Congress; analytical justification; scope of analysis Pursuant and subject to the provisions and procedures set forth in this chapter, the Administrator shall, within six months from May 7, 1974, develop and report to the Congress and the President a comprehensive plan designed to alleviate the energy shortage, for the time period covered by this chapter. Such plan shall be accompanied by full analytical justification for the actions proposed therein. Such analysis shall include, but not be limited to—

(1) estimates of the energy savings of each action and of the program as a whole;

(2) estimates of any windfall losses and gains to be experienced by corporations, industries, and citizens grouped by socioeconomic class;

(3) estimates of the impact on supplies and consumption of energy forms consequent to such price changes as are or may be proposed; and

(4) a description of alternative actions which the Administrator has considered together with a rationale in explanation of the rejection of any such alternatives in preference to the measures actually proposed.

(b) Alterations; analytical justifications The Administrator may, from time to time, modify or otherwise alter any such plan, except that, upon request of an appropriate committee of the Congress, the Administrator shall supply analytical justifications for any such alterations.

(c) Monitoring activity The Administrator shall be responsible for monitoring any such plans as are implemented with respect to their effectiveness in achieving the anticipated benefits.

*([Pub. L. 93–275, § 22](/us/pl/93/275/s22), May 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 113](/us/stat/88/113).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Federal Energy Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.
