---
title: "§ 10336. Expenditure of grants; records"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10336"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10336"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1407](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1407), as added [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(a)(2)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/a/2), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4813](/us/stat/104/4813); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40156(c)(7)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40156/c/7), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1924](/us/stat/108/1924).)"
---
# § 10336. Expenditure of grants; records

##### § 10336. Expenditure of grants; records

(a) Identified uses A grant made under this subchapter may not be expended for more than 75 percent of the cost of the identified uses, in the aggregate, for which such grant is received to carry out [section 10332 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10332), except that in the case of funds distributed to an Indian tribe which performs law enforcement functions (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) for any such program or project, the amount of such grant shall be equal to 100 percent of such cost. The non-Federal portion of the expenditures for such uses shall be paid in cash.

(b) Administration Not more than 10 percent of a grant made under this subchapter may be used for costs incurred to administer such grant.

(c) Records

(1) Grant recipients (or private organizations with which grant recipients have contracted to provide equipment or training using grant funds) shall keep such records as the Director may require by rule to facilitate such an audit..11 So in original.

(2) The Director and the Comptroller General of the United States shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any books, documents, and records of grant recipients (or private organizations with which grant recipients have contracted to provide equipment or training using grant funds) if, in the opinion of the Director or the Comptroller General, such books, documents, and records are related to the receipt or use of any such grant.

(d) Utilization of private sector Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the utilization of any grant funds to contract with a private organization to provide equipment or training for the televising of testimony as contemplated by the application submitted by an applicant.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1407](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1407), as added [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(a)(2)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/a/2), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4813](/us/stat/104/4813); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40156(c)(7)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40156/c/7), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1924](/us/stat/108/1924).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796aa–6 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796aa–6), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 40156(c)(7)(A)(i)](/us/pl/103/322/s40156/c/7/A/i), substituted “Grant recipients (or private organizations with which grant recipients have contracted to provide equipment or training using grant funds) shall keep such records as the Director may require by rule to facilitate such an audit.” for “Each State which receives a grant under this chapter shall keep, and shall require units of local government which receive any part of such grant to keep, such records as the Director may require by rule to facilitate an effective audit”.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 40156(c)(7)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/103/322/s40156/c/7/A/ii), substituted “grant recipients (or private organizations with which grant recipients have contracted to provide equipment or training using grant funds)” for “States which receive grants, and of units of local government which receive any part of a grant made under this subchapter”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 40156(c)(7)(B)](/us/pl/103/322/s40156/c/7/B), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
