---
title: "§ 300u–15. Research on optimizing the delivery of public health services"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300u–15"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300u–15"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, § 4301](/us/pl/111/148/tIV/s4301), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 578](/us/stat/124/578).)"
---
# § 300u–15. Research on optimizing the delivery of public health services

##### § 300u–15. Research on optimizing the delivery of public health services

(a) In general The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”), acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall provide funding for research in the area of public health services and systems.

(b) Requirements of research Research supported under this section shall include—

(1) examining evidence-based practices relating to prevention, with a particular focus on high priority areas as identified by the Secretary in the National Prevention Strategy or Healthy People 2020, and including comparing community-based public health interventions in terms of effectiveness and cost;

(2) analyzing the translation of interventions from academic settings to real world settings; and

(3) identifying effective strategies for organizing, financing, or delivering public health services in real world community settings, including comparing State and local health department structures and systems in terms of effectiveness and cost.

(c) Existing partnerships Research supported under this section shall be coordinated with the Community Preventive Services Task Force and carried out by building on existing partnerships within the Federal Government while also considering initiatives at the State and local levels and in the private sector.

(d) Annual report The Secretary shall, on an annual basis, submit to Congress a report concerning the activities and findings with respect to research supported under this section.

*([Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, § 4301](/us/pl/111/148/tIV/s4301), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 578](/us/stat/124/578).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
