---
title: "§ 3507. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12210](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12210), formerly § 12208, Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1426](/us/stat/123/1426); renumbered § 12210 and amended [Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CIII, § 10307(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCIII/s10307/b/1/C), (e)(1), (g), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3976](/us/stat/136/3976), 3978, 3979.)"
---
# § 3507. Definitions

##### § 3507. Definitions

(1) Administrator The term “Administrator’ ” 11 So in original. Closing single quotation mark probably should not appear. means the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(2) Coastal state The term “coastal state” has the meaning given that term by [section 1453(4) of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1453/4).

(3) Working Group The term “Working Group” means the Interagency Working Group on Ocean and Coastal Mapping under [section 3502 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3502).

(4) Exclusive economic zone The term “exclusive economic zone” means the exclusive economic zone of the United States established by Presidential Proclamation No. 5030, of March 10, 1983.

(5) Ocean and coastal mapping The term “ocean and coastal mapping” means the acquisition, processing, management, maintenance, interpretation, certification, and dissemination of physical, biological, geological, chemical, and archaeological characteristics and boundaries of ocean and coastal areas, resources, and sea beds through the use of acoustics, satellites, aerial photogrammetry, light and imaging, direct sampling, and other mapping technologies.

(6) Territorial sea The term “territorial sea” means the belt of sea measured from the baseline of the United States determined in accordance with international law, as set forth in Presidential Proclamation Number 5928, dated December 27, 1988.

(7) Nongovernmental entities The term “nongovernmental entities” includes nongovernmental organizations, members of the academic community, and private sector organizations that provide products and services associated with measuring, locating, and preparing maps, charts, surveys, aerial photographs, satellite imagines,22 So in original. Probably should be “images,”. or other graphical or digital presentations depicting natural or manmade physical features, phenomena, and legal boundaries of the Earth.

(8) Outer Continental Shelf The term “Outer Continental Shelf” means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of lands beneath navigable waters (as that term is defined in [section 1301 of title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1301)), and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.

(9) Coastal Indian Tribe The term “coastal Indian Tribe” means an “Indian Tribe”, as defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304), the land of which is located in a coastal State.

*([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12210](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12210), formerly § 12208, Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1426](/us/stat/123/1426); renumbered § 12210 and amended [Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CIII, § 10307(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCIII/s10307/b/1/C), (e)(1), (g), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3976](/us/stat/136/3976), 3978, 3979.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Presidential Proclamation No. 5030, referred to in par. (4), is set out under [section 1453 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1453), Conservation.

Presidential Proclamation Number 5928, referred to in par. (6), is set out under [section 1331 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1331), Public Lands.

#### Amendments

2022—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 10307(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/117/263/s10307/b/1/C), amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The term ‘Committee’ means the Interagency Ocean and Coastal Mapping Committee established by [section 3502 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3502).”

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 10307(g)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/s10307/g/1), substituted “processing, management, maintenance, interpretation, certification, and dissemination” for “processing, and management”.

Par. (9). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 10307(g)(2)](/us/pl/117/263/s10307/g/2), added par. (9).
