---
title: "§ 5303. Tribal and Federal advisory committees"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–644, title II, § 204](/us/pl/101/644/tII/s204), as added [Pub. L. 103–435, § 22(b)](/us/pl/103/435/s22/b), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4575](/us/stat/108/4575).)"
---
# § 5303. Tribal and Federal advisory committees

##### § 5303. Tribal and Federal advisory committees

Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including any regulation), the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Health and Human Services are authorized to jointly establish and fund advisory committees or other advisory bodies composed of members of Indian tribes or members of Indian tribes and representatives of the Federal Government to ensure tribal participation in the implementation of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([Public Law 93–638](/us/pl/93/638)) [[25 U.S.C. 5301](/us/usc/t25/s5301) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 101–644, title II, § 204](/us/pl/101/644/tII/s204), as added [Pub. L. 103–435, § 22(b)](/us/pl/103/435/s22/b), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4575](/us/stat/108/4575).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Amendments of 1990, and not as part of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 450a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s450a–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
