---
title: "§ 44518. Advanced Materials Center of Excellence"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44518"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44518"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title VII, § 762(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tVII/s762/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3428](/us/stat/132/3428); amended [Pub. L. 116–260, div. V, title I, § 134](/us/pl/116/260/dV/tI/s134), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2356](/us/stat/134/2356); [Pub. L. 118–63, title X, § 1005](/us/pl/118/63/tX/s1005), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1387](/us/stat/138/1387).)"
---
# § 44518. Advanced Materials Center of Excellence

##### § 44518. Advanced Materials Center of Excellence

(a) In General.—

(1) Continued operations.— The Administrator shall—

(A) continue operation of the Advanced Materials Center of Excellence (referred to in this section as the “Center”); and

(B) make a determination on whether to award a grant to the Center not later than 90 days after the date on which the grants officer of the Federal Aviation Administration recommends a proposal for award of such grant to the Administrator.

(2) Purposes.— The Center shall—

(A) focus on applied research and training on the safe use of composites and advanced materials, and related manufacturing practices, in airframe structures; and

(B) conduct research and development into aircraft structure crash worthiness and passenger safety, as well as address safe and accessible air travel of individuals with a disability (as defined in section 382.3 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation)), including materials required to facilitate safe wheelchair restraint systems on commercial aircraft.

(b) Responsibilities.— The Center shall—

(1) promote and facilitate collaboration among member universities, academia, the Administration, the commercial aircraft industry, including manufacturers, commercial air carriers, and suppliers, and other appropriate stakeholders for the purposes under subsection (a) and the activities described in paragraphs (2) through (4);

(2) carry out research and development activities to advance technology, improve engineering practices, and facilitate continuing education in relevant areas of study, which shall include—

(A) all structural materials, including—

(i) metallic and non-metallic based additive materials, ceramic materials, carbon fiber polymers, and thermoplastic composites;

(ii) the long-term material and structural behavior of such materials; and

(iii) evaluating the resiliency and long-term durability of advanced materials in high temperature conditions and in engines for applications in advanced aircraft; and

(B) structural technologies, such as additive manufacturing, to be used in applications within the commercial aircraft industry, including traditional fixed-wing aircraft, rotorcraft, and emerging aircraft types such as advanced air mobility aircraft; and

(3) conduct research activities for the purpose of improving the safety and certification of aviation structures, materials, and additively manufactured aviation products and components; and

(4) conducting 11 So in original. Probably should be “conduct”. research activities to advance the safe movement of all passengers, including individuals with a disability (as defined in section 382.3 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation)), and individuals using personal wheelchairs in flight, that takes into account the modeling, engineering, testing, operating, and training issues significant to all passengers and relevant stakeholders.

(c) Authorization of Appropriations.— Out of amounts appropriated under section 48102(a), the Administrator may expend not more than $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2023 to carry out this section. Amounts appropriated under the preceding sentence for each fiscal year shall remain available until expended.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title VII, § 762(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tVII/s762/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3428](/us/stat/132/3428); amended [Pub. L. 116–260, div. V, title I, § 134](/us/pl/116/260/dV/tI/s134), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2356](/us/stat/134/2356); [Pub. L. 118–63, title X, § 1005](/us/pl/118/63/tX/s1005), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1387](/us/stat/138/1387).)*

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 1005(1)](/us/pl/118/63/s1005/1), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall continue operation of the Advanced Materials Center of Excellence (referred to in this section as the “Center”) under its structure as in effect on March 1, 2016, which shall focus on applied research and training on the durability and maintainability of advanced materials in transport airframe structures.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 1005(2)](/us/pl/118/63/s1005/2), added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Center shall—

“(1) promote and facilitate collaboration among academia, the Transportation Division of the Federal Aviation Administration, and the commercial aircraft industry, including manufacturers, commercial air carriers, and suppliers; and

“(2) establish goals set to advance technology, improve engineering practices, and facilitate continuing education in relevant areas of study.”

2020—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) added subsec. (c).
