---
title: "§ 1397m–3. Provision of information regarding, and evaluations of, elder justice programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1397m–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1397m–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2044, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6703(a)(1)(C)](/us/pl/111/148/tVI/s6703/a/1/C), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 796](/us/stat/124/796).)"
---
# § 1397m–3. Provision of information regarding, and evaluations of, elder justice programs

##### § 1397m–3. Provision of information regarding, and evaluations of, elder justice programs

(a) Provision of information To be eligible to receive a grant under this part, an applicant shall agree—

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2), to provide the eligible entity conducting an evaluation under subsection (b) of the activities funded through the grant with such information as the eligible entity may require in order to conduct such evaluation; or

(2) in the case of an applicant for a grant under [section 1397m(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1397m/b), to provide the Secretary with such information as the Secretary may require to conduct an evaluation or audit under subsection (c).

(b) Use of eligible entities to conduct evaluations

(1) Evaluations required Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall—

(A) reserve a portion (not less than 2 percent) of the funds appropriated with respect to each program carried out under this part; and

(B) use the funds reserved under subparagraph (A) to provide assistance to eligible entities to conduct evaluations of the activities funded under each program carried out under this part.

(2) Certified EHR technology grant program not included The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the certified EHR technology grant program under [section 1397m(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1397m/b).

(3) Authorized activities A recipient of assistance described in paragraph (1)(B) shall use the funds made available through the assistance to conduct a validated evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities funded under a program carried out under this part.

(4) Applications To be eligible to receive assistance under paragraph (1)(B), an entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a proposal for the evaluation.

(5) Reports Not later than a date specified by the Secretary, an eligible entity receiving assistance under paragraph (1)(B) shall submit to the Secretary, the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report containing the results of the evaluation conducted using such assistance together with such recommendations as the entity determines to be appropriate.

(c) Evaluations and audits of certified EHR technology grant program by the Secretary

(1) Evaluations The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of the activities funded under the certified EHR technology grant program under [section 1397m(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1397m/b). Such evaluation shall include an evaluation of whether the funding provided under the grant is expended only for the purposes for which it is made.

(2) Audits The Secretary shall conduct appropriate audits of grants made under [section 1397m(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1397m/b).

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2044, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6703(a)(1)(C)](/us/pl/111/148/tVI/s6703/a/1/C), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 796](/us/stat/124/796).)*
