---
title: "§ 2633. Procedure and fees"
identifier: "USC-T28-S2633"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section2633"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–417, title III, § 301](/us/pl/96/417/tIII/s301), Oct. 10, 1980, [94 Stat. 1732](/us/stat/94/1732).)"
---
# § 2633. Procedure and fees

##### § 2633. Procedure and fees

(a) A filing fee shall be payable to the clerk of the Court of International Trade upon the commencement of a civil action in such court. The amount of the fee shall be prescribed by the rules of the court, but shall be not less than $5 nor more than the filing fee for commencing a civil action in a district court of the United States. The court may fix all other fees to be charged by the clerk of the court.

(b) The Court of International Trade shall prescribe rules governing the summons, pleadings, and other papers, for their amendment, service, and filing, for consolidations, severances, suspensions of cases, and for other procedural matters.

(c) All summons, pleadings, and other papers filed in the Court of International Trade shall be served on all parties in accordance with rules prescribed by the court. When the United States, its agencies, or its officers are adverse parties, service of the summons shall be made upon the Attorney General and the head of the Government agency whose action is being contested. When injunctive relief is sought, the summons, pleadings, and other papers shall also be served upon the named officials sought to be enjoined.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–417, title III, § 301](/us/pl/96/417/tIII/s301), Oct. 10, 1980, [94 Stat. 1732](/us/stat/94/1732).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2633, acts [June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 980](/us/stat/62/980); June 2, 1970, [Pub. L. 91–271, title I, § 114](/us/pl/91/271/tI/s114), [84 Stat. 279](/us/stat/84/279); July 26, 1979, [Pub. L. 96–39, title X, § 1001(b)(4)(D)](/us/pl/96/39/tX/s1001/b/4/D), [93 Stat. 306](/us/stat/93/306), related to precedence of cases, prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 96–417](/us/pl/96/417). See [section 2647 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s2647).
