---
title: "§ 1705A. Management of health care: information regarding health-plan contracts"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1705A"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1705A"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–315, title VI, § 604(a)](/us/pl/114/315/tVI/s604/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1571](/us/stat/130/1571); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title I, § 142(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tI/s142/c/1), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5424](/us/stat/136/5424).)"
---
# § 1705A. Management of health care: information regarding health-plan contracts

##### § 1705A. Management of health care: information regarding health-plan contracts

(a) In General.—

(1) Any individual who seeks hospital care or medical services under this chapter shall provide to the Secretary such current information as the Secretary may require to identify any health-plan contract under which such individual is covered.

(2) The information required to be provided to the Secretary under paragraph (1) with respect to a health-plan contract shall include, as applicable, the following:

(A) The name of the entity providing coverage under the health-plan contract.

(B) If coverage under the health-plan contract is in the name of an individual other than the individual required to provide information under this section, the name of the policy holder of the health-plan contract.

(C) The identification number for the health-plan contract.

(D) The group code for the health-plan contract.

(b) Action To Collect Information.— The Secretary may take such action as the Secretary considers appropriate to collect the information required under subsection (a).

(c) Effect on Services From Department.— The Secretary may not deny any services under this chapter to an individual solely due to the fact that the individual fails to provide information required under subsection (a).

(d) Health-Plan Contract Defined.— In this section, the term “health-plan contract” has the meaning given that term in [section 1725(h) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1725/h).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–315, title VI, § 604(a)](/us/pl/114/315/tVI/s604/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1571](/us/stat/130/1571); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title I, § 142(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tI/s142/c/1), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5424](/us/stat/136/5424).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) substituted “section 1725(h)” for “section 1725(f)”.
