---
title: "§ 295. Supervision of expenditure of appropriations for school purposes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S295"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section295"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Apr. 30, 1908, ch. 153](/us/act/1908-04-30/ch153), [35 Stat. 72](/us/stat/35/72).)"
---
# § 295. Supervision of expenditure of appropriations for school purposes

##### § 295. Supervision of expenditure of appropriations for school purposes

All expenditure of money herein or after April 30, 1908, appropriated for school purposes among the Indians, shall be at all times under the supervision and direction of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and in all respects in conformity with such conditions, rules, and regulations as to the conduct and methods of instruction and expenditure of money as may be from time to time prescribed by him, subject to the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior.

*([Apr. 30, 1908, ch. 153](/us/act/1908-04-30/ch153), [35 Stat. 72](/us/stat/35/72).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Act Apr. 30, 1908, embodied restrictions as to the amount which might be expended for the annual support and education of any one pupil and specified the method for determining the number of pupils in any school entitled to the per capita allowance provided for by the act.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### School and Employment Transportation

Separate appropriations for collection and transportation of pupils to and from Indian schools, etc., with a proviso that a specified part of the amount so appropriated may be used in placing Indian youths in employment in industrial pursuits were made by the following appropriation acts:

[Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1155](/us/stat/43/1155).

[May 24, 1922, ch. 199](/us/act/1922-05-24/ch199), [42 Stat. 562](/us/stat/42/562).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
