---
title: "§ 2353. Structural health monitoring"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2353"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2353"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1151](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1151), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1661](/us/stat/130/1661).)"
---
# § 2353. Structural health monitoring

##### § 2353. Structural health monitoring

(a) In general The Secretary shall design and develop a structural health monitoring program to assess and improve the condition of infrastructure constructed and maintained by the Corps of Engineers, including research, design, and development of systems and frameworks for—

(1) response to flood and earthquake events;

(2) predisaster mitigation measures;

(3) lengthening the useful life of the infrastructure; and

(4) identifying risks due to sea level rise.

(b) Consultation and considerations In developing the program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—

(1) consult with academic and other experts; and

(2) consider models for maintenance and repair information, the development of degradation models for real-time measurements and environmental inputs, and research on qualitative inspection data as surrogate sensors.

*([Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1151](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1151), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1661](/us/stat/130/1661).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, and also as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, also known as the WIIN Act, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 1002 of Pub. L. 114–322](/us/pl/114/322/s1002), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
