---
title: "§ 10643. Statewide strategic prevention plan"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10643"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10643"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2987](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2987), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title I, § 11027(b)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tI/s11027/b), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/116/1834).)"
---
# § 10643. Statewide strategic prevention plan

##### § 10643. Statewide strategic prevention plan

(a) In general A statewide strategic prevention plan shall be used by the rural State to assist local communities, both directly and through existing State programs and services, in building comprehensive, strategic, and innovative approaches to reducing crime, violence, and substance abuse based on local conditions and needs.

(b) Goals The plan must contain statewide long-term goals and measurable annual objectives for reducing crime, violence, and substance abuse.

(c) Accountability The rural State shall be required to develop and report in its plan relevant performance targets and measures for the goals and objectives to track changes in crime, violence, and substance abuse.

(d) Consultation The rural State shall form a State crime free communities commission that includes representatives of State and local government, and community leaders who will provide advice and recommendations on relevant community goals and objectives, and performance targets and measures.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2987](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2987), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title I, § 11027(b)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tI/s11027/b), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/116/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797y–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797y–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
