---
title: "§ 949p–2. Pretrial conference"
identifier: "USC-T10-S949p–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section949p–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title XVIII, § 1802](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tXVIII/s1802), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2591](/us/stat/123/2591).)"
---
# § 949p–2. Pretrial conference

##### § 949p–2. Pretrial conference

(a) Motion.— At any time after service of charges, any party may move for a pretrial conference to consider matters relating to classified information that may arise in connection with the prosecution.

(b) Conference.— Following a motion under subsection (a), or sua sponte, the military judge shall promptly hold a pretrial conference. Upon request by either party, the court shall hold such conference ex parte to the extent necessary to protect classified information from disclosure, in accordance with the practice of the Federal courts under the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.).

(c) Matters To Be Established at Pretrial Conference.—

(1) Timing of subsequent actions.— At the pretrial conference, the military judge shall establish the timing of—

(A) requests for discovery;

(B) the provision of notice required by [section 949p–5 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s949p–5); and

(C) the initiation of the procedure established by [section 949p–6 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s949p–6).

(2) Other matters.— At the pretrial conference, the military judge may also consider any matter—

(A) which relates to classified information; or

(B) which may promote a fair and expeditious trial.

(d) Effect of Admissions by Accused at Pretrial Conference.— No admission made by the accused or by any counsel for the accused at a pretrial conference under this section may be used against the accused unless the admission is in writing and is signed by the accused and by the counsel for the accused.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title XVIII, § 1802](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tXVIII/s1802), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2591](/us/stat/123/2591).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Classified Information Procedures Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 96–456](/us/pl/96/456), Oct. 15, 1980, [94 Stat. 2025](/us/stat/94/2025), which is set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
