---
title: "§ 300gg–136. Provision of information upon request and for scheduled appointments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300gg–136"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300gg–136"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVII, § 2799B–6, as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. BB, title I, § 112](/us/pl/116/260/dBB/tI/s112), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2866](/us/stat/134/2866).)"
---
# § 300gg–136. Provision of information upon request and for scheduled appointments

##### § 300gg–136. Provision of information upon request and for scheduled appointments

(1) inquire if such individual is enrolled in a group health plan, group or individual health insurance coverage offered by a health insurance issuer, or a Federal health care program (and if is so enrolled in such plan or coverage, seeking to have a claim for such item or service submitted to such plan or coverage); and

(2) provide a notification (in clear and understandable language) of the good faith estimate of the expected charges for furnishing such item or service (including any item or service that is reasonably expected to be provided in conjunction with such scheduled item or service and such an item or service reasonably expected to be so provided by another health care provider or health care facility), with the expected billing and diagnostic codes for any such item or service, to—

(A) in the case the individual is enrolled in such a plan or such coverage (and is seeking to have a claim for such item or service submitted to such plan or coverage), such plan or issuer of such coverage; and

(B) in the case the individual is not described in subparagraph (A) and not enrolled in a Federal health care program, the individual.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVII, § 2799B–6, as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. BB, title I, § 112](/us/pl/116/260/dBB/tI/s112), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2866](/us/stat/134/2866).)*
