---
title: "§ 1070g. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1070g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1070g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, § 420L](/us/pl/89/329/tIV/s420L), as added [Pub. L. 110–84, title I, § 104](/us/pl/110/84/tI/s104), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 786](/us/stat/121/786); amended [Pub. L. 110–153, § 3(1)](/us/pl/110/153/s3/1), Dec. 21, 2007, [121 Stat. 1824](/us/stat/121/1824).)"
---
# § 1070g. Definitions

##### § 1070g. Definitions

(1) Eligible institution The term “eligible institution” means an institution of higher education, as defined in [section 1002 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1002), that the Secretary determines—

(A) provides high quality teacher preparation and professional development services, including extensive clinical experience as a part of pre-service preparation;

(B) is financially responsible;

(C) provides pedagogical course work, or assistance in the provision of such coursework, including the monitoring of student performance, and formal instruction related to the theory and practices of teaching; and

(D) provides supervision and support services to teachers, or assistance in the provision of such services, including mentoring focused on developing effective teaching skills and strategies.

(2) Post-baccalaureate The term “post-baccalaureate” means a program of instruction for individuals who have completed a baccalaureate degree, that does not lead to a graduate degree, and that consists of courses required by a State in order for a teacher candidate to receive a professional certification or licensing credential that is required for employment as a teacher in an elementary school or secondary school in that State, except that such term shall not include any program of instruction offered by an eligible institution that offers a baccalaureate degree in education.

(3) Teacher candidate The term “teacher candidate” means a student or teacher described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of [section 1070g–2(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1070g–2/a/2).

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, § 420L](/us/pl/89/329/tIV/s420L), as added [Pub. L. 110–84, title I, § 104](/us/pl/110/84/tI/s104), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 786](/us/stat/121/786); amended [Pub. L. 110–153, § 3(1)](/us/pl/110/153/s3/1), Dec. 21, 2007, [121 Stat. 1824](/us/stat/121/1824).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2007—Par. (1)(B). [Pub. L. 110–153](/us/pl/110/153) substituted “responsible” for “sound”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Subpart effective Oct. 1, 2007, see [section 1(c) of Pub. L. 110–84](/us/pl/110/84/s1/c), set out as an Effective Date of 2007 Amendment note under [section 1070a of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1070a).
