---
title: "§ 7753. Reimbursable agreements"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7753"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7753"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–224, title IV, § 433](/us/pl/106/224/tIV/s433), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 452](/us/stat/114/452).)"
---
# § 7753. Reimbursable agreements

##### § 7753. Reimbursable agreements

(a) Authority to enter into agreements The Secretary may enter into reimbursable fee agreements with persons for preclearance of plants, plant products, biological control organisms, and articles at locations outside the United States for movement into the United States.

(b) Funds collected for preclearance Funds collected for preclearance shall be credited to accounts which may be established by the Secretary for this purpose and shall remain available until expended for the preclearance activities without fiscal year limitation.

(c) Payment of employees

(1) In general Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary may pay employees of the Department of Agriculture performing services relating to imports into and exports from the United States, for all overtime, night, or holiday work performed by them, at rates of pay established by the Secretary.

(2) Reimbursement of the Secretary

(A) In general The Secretary may require persons for whom the services are performed to reimburse the Secretary for any sums of money paid by the Secretary for the services.

(B) Use of funds All funds collected under this paragraph shall be credited to the account that incurs the costs and shall remain available until expended without fiscal year limitation.

(d) Late payment penalties

(1) Collection Upon failure to reimburse the Secretary in accordance with this section, the Secretary may assess a late payment penalty, and the overdue funds shall accrue interest, as required by [section 3717 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3717).

(2) Use of funds Any late payment penalty and any accrued interest shall be credited to the account that incurs the costs and shall remain available until expended without fiscal year limitation.

*([Pub. L. 106–224, title IV, § 433](/us/pl/106/224/tIV/s433), June 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 452](/us/stat/114/452).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to agricultural import and entry inspection activities under this chapter to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 231, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
