---
title: "§ 3243. Monitoring"
identifier: "USC-T29-S3243"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section3243"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 183](/us/pl/113/128/tI/s183), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1590](/us/stat/128/1590).)"
---
# § 3243. Monitoring

##### § 3243. Monitoring

(a) In general The Secretary is authorized to monitor all recipients of financial assistance under this subchapter to determine whether the recipients are complying with the provisions of this subchapter, including the regulations issued under this subchapter.

(b) Investigations The Secretary may investigate any matter the Secretary determines to be necessary to determine the compliance of the recipients with this subchapter, including the regulations issued under this subchapter. The investigations authorized by this subsection may include examining records (including making certified copies of the records), questioning employees, and entering any premises or onto any site in which any part of a program or activity of such a recipient is conducted or in which any of the records of the recipient are kept.

(c) Additional requirement For the purpose of any investigation or hearing conducted under this subchapter by the Secretary, the provisions of [section 49 of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s49) (relating to the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents) apply to the Secretary, in the same manner and to the same extent as the provisions apply to the Federal Trade Commission.

*([Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 183](/us/pl/113/128/tI/s183), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1590](/us/stat/128/1590).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 (July 1, 2015), see [section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128/s506), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3101).
