---
title: "§ 460n–2. Hualapai Indian lands; inclusion within area; mineral rights; leases and permits; hunting and fishing rights"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460n–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460n–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–639, § 3](/us/pl/88/639/s3), Oct. 8, 1964, [78 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/78/1039).)"
---
# § 460n–2. Hualapai Indian lands; inclusion within area; mineral rights; leases and permits; hunting and fishing rights

##### § 460n–2. Hualapai Indian lands; inclusion within area; mineral rights; leases and permits; hunting and fishing rights

(a) The inclusion of Indian lands within the exterior boundaries of the area shall not be effective until approved by the Hualapai Tribal Council.

(b) Mineral developments or use of the Indian lands shall be permitted only in accordance with the laws that relate to Indian lands.

(c) Leases and permits for general recreational use, business sites, home sites, vacation cabin sites, and grazing shall be executed in accordance with the laws relating to leases of Indian lands, provided that all development and improvement leases so granted shall conform to the development program and standards prescribed for the Lake Mead National Recreation Area.

(d) Nothing in this subchapter shall deprive the members of the Hualapai Tribe of hunting and fishing privileges presently exercised by them, nor diminish those rights and privileges of that part of the reservation which is included in the Lake Mead Recreation Area.11 So in original. Probably should be “Lake Mead National Recreation Area”.

*([Pub. L. 88–639, § 3](/us/pl/88/639/s3), Oct. 8, 1964, [78 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/78/1039).)*
