---
title: "§ 3361. Declaration of emergency"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3361"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3361"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–621, title III, § 301](/us/pl/95/621/tIII/s301), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3381](/us/stat/92/3381).)"
---
# § 3361. Declaration of emergency

##### § 3361. Declaration of emergency

(a) Presidential declaration The President may declare a natural gas supply emergency (or extend a previously declared emergency) if he finds that—

(1) a severe natural gas shortage, endangering the supply of natural gas for high-priority uses, exists or is imminent in the United States or in any region thereof; and

(2) the exercise of authorities under section 3362 or [section 3363 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3363) is reasonably necessary, having exhausted other alternatives to the maximum extent practicable, to assist in meeting natural gas requirements for such high-priority uses.

(b) Limitation

(1) Expiration Any declaration of a natural gas supply emergency (or extension thereof) under subsection (a), shall terminate at the earlier of—

(A) the date on which the President finds that any shortage described in subsection (a) does not exist or is not imminent; or

(B) 120 days after the date of such declaration of emergency (or extension thereof).

(2) Extensions Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the President from extending, under subsection (a), any emergency (or extension thereof), previously declared under subsection (a), upon the expiration of such declaration of emergency (or extension thereof) under paragraph (1)(B).

*([Pub. L. 95–621, title III, § 301](/us/pl/95/621/tIII/s301), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3381](/us/stat/92/3381).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under this subchapter, except for authority to declare, extend, and terminate a national gas supply emergency pursuant to this section, delegated to Secretary of Energy, see section 1–101 of Ex. Ord. No. 12235, Sept. 3, 1980, 45 F.R. 58803, set out as a note under [section 3364 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3364).
