---
title: "§ 1836. Care and coordination teams"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1836"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1836"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–18, § 1(b)](/us/pl/118/18/s1/b), Oct. 6, 2023, [137 Stat. 103](/us/stat/137/103).)"
---
# § 1836. Care and coordination teams

##### § 1836. Care and coordination teams

(a) In General.— The Secretary shall establish care and coordination teams for covered children.

(b) Outreach.— A care and coordination team established under subsection (a) shall attempt to contact each covered child—

(1) not less frequently than once every 180 days, to ensure the continued care of the child and assist with any changes in care needed due to a changed situation of the child; and

(2) as soon as practicable after the identification of a condition listed in the report required by subsection (c).

(c) Report.— Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report setting forth a list of conditions that will trigger outreach to covered children under subsection (b)(2).

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–18, § 1(b)](/us/pl/118/18/s1/b), Oct. 6, 2023, [137 Stat. 103](/us/stat/137/103).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (c), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 118–18](/us/pl/118/18), which was approved Oct. 6, 2023.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Deadline for Establishment of Care and Coordination Teams

[Pub. L. 118–18, § 1(d)(2)](/us/pl/118/18/s1/d/2), Oct. 6, 2023, [137 Stat. 104](/us/stat/137/104), provided that: “Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 6, 2023], the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish the care and coordination teams required under section 1836 of such title, as added by subsection (b).”
