---
title: "§ 5931. Programs with states of former Soviet Union"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5931"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5931"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title XIV, § 1441](/us/pl/102/484/dA/tXIV/s1441), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2566](/us/stat/106/2566); [Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title XI, § 1182(c)(4)](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tXI/s1182/c/4), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1772](/us/stat/107/1772).)"
---
# § 5931. Programs with states of former Soviet Union

##### § 5931. Programs with states of former Soviet Union

(1) To advance defense conversion by funding civilian collaborative research and development projects between scientists and engineers in the United States and in the independent states of the former Soviet Union.

(2) To assist the establishment of a market economy in the independent states of the former Soviet Union by promoting, identifying, and partially funding joint research, development, and demonstration ventures between United States businesses and scientists, engineers, and entrepreneurs in those independent states.

(3) To provide a mechanism for scientists, engineers, and entrepreneurs in the independent states of the former Soviet Union to develop an understanding of commercial business practices by establishing linkages to United States scientists, engineers, and businesses.

(4) To provide access for United States businesses to sophisticated new technologies, talented researchers, and potential new markets within the independent states of the former Soviet Union.

(5) To provide productive research and development opportunities within the independent states of the former Soviet Union that offer scientists and engineers alternatives to emigration and help prevent proliferation of weapons technologies and the dissolution of the technological infrastructure of those states.

*([Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title XIV, § 1441](/us/pl/102/484/dA/tXIV/s1441), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2566](/us/stat/106/2566); [Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title XI, § 1182(c)(4)](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tXI/s1182/c/4), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1772](/us/stat/107/1772).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—[Pub. L. 103–160](/us/pl/103/160) made technical amendment to reference to [section 5861 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5861) to correct reference to corresponding section of original Act.
