---
title: "§ 322. Applicability of certain provisions to Pueblo Indians"
identifier: "USC-T25-S322"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section322"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Apr. 21, 1928, ch. 400, § 1](/us/act/1928-04-21/ch400/s1), [45 Stat. 442](/us/stat/45/442); [Pub. L. 94–416, § 3](/us/pl/94/416/s3), Sept. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 1275](/us/stat/90/1275).)"
---
# § 322. Applicability of certain provisions to Pueblo Indians

##### § 322. Applicability of certain provisions to Pueblo Indians

The provisions of the following statutes:

- Sections 311, 319, and 357 of this title;

- Sections 312 to 318 of this title;

- [Section 321 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s321); and

- Sections 323 to 328 of this title,

are extended over and made applicable to the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico and their lands, whether owned by the Pueblo Indians or held in trust or set aside for their use and occupancy by Executive order or otherwise, under such rules, regulations, and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

*([Apr. 21, 1928, ch. 400, § 1](/us/act/1928-04-21/ch400/s1), [45 Stat. 442](/us/stat/45/442); [Pub. L. 94–416, § 3](/us/pl/94/416/s3), Sept. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 1275](/us/stat/90/1275).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1976—[Pub. L. 94–416](/us/pl/94/416) inserted reference to sections 323 to 328 and 357 of this title with respect to the enumeration of statutes, struck out reference to [section 935 of title 43](/us/usc/t43/s935) with respect to the enumeration of statutes, and inserted “whether owned by the Pueblo Indians or held in trust or set aside for their use and occupancy by Executive order or otherwise,” after “New Mexico and their lands”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of the Interior relating to compliance with rights-of-way across Indian lands, issued under section 321 et seq. of this title with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(e), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, [93 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/93/1373), 1376, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, effective July 1, 1979, pursuant to Ex. Ord. No. 12142, § 1–101, June 21, 1979, 44 F.R. 36927, set out as a note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e), Commerce and Trade. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by [section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486/s3012/b), set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e). Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by [section 720d(f) of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s720d/f).
