---
title: "§ 903. Use of certain appropriated funds"
identifier: "USC-T14-S903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 88–45, § 2](/us/pl/88/45/s2), June 21, 1963, [77 Stat. 68](/us/stat/77/68), § 656; amended [Pub. L. 93–283, § 1(9)](/us/pl/93/283/s1/9), May 14, 1974, [88 Stat. 140](/us/stat/88/140); [Pub. L. 112–213, title II, § 212(a)](/us/pl/112/213/tII/s212/a), (b)(1), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/126/1552); [Pub. L. 113–281, title II, § 221(b)(2)](/us/pl/113/281/tII/s221/b/2), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3038](/us/stat/128/3038); renumbered § 903, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107("
---
# § 903. Use of certain appropriated funds

##### § 903. Use of certain appropriated funds

(a) Funds appropriated to or for the use of the Coast Guard for procurement, construction, and improvement of facilities and for research and development shall remain available until expended.

(b) The Secretary may use any funds appropriated to or for the use of the Coast Guard for other construction purposes to restore, repair, or replace facilities that have been damaged or destroyed, including acquisition of sites.

(c) The Secretary may use any funds appropriated to or for the use of the Coast Guard for other construction purposes to acquire, construct, convert, extend, and install at Coast Guard installations and facilities, needed permanent or temporary public works, including the preparation of sites and the furnishing of appurtenances, utilities, and equipment, but excluding the construction of family quarters, costing not more than $200,000 for any one project.

(d) Minor Construction and Improvement.—

(1) In general.— Subject to the reporting requirements set forth in paragraph (2), each fiscal year the Secretary may expend from amounts made available for the operations and support of the Coast Guard not more than $2,000,000 for minor construction and improvement projects at any location.

(2) Report.— Not later than the date on which the President submits to Congress a budget under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105) each year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report describing each project carried out under paragraph (1), in the most recently concluded fiscal year, for which the amount expended under such paragraph for such project was more than $1,000,000. If no such project was carried out during a fiscal year, no report under this paragraph shall be required with respect to that fiscal year.

*(Added [Pub. L. 88–45, § 2](/us/pl/88/45/s2), June 21, 1963, [77 Stat. 68](/us/stat/77/68), § 656; amended [Pub. L. 93–283, § 1(9)](/us/pl/93/283/s1/9), May 14, 1974, [88 Stat. 140](/us/stat/88/140); [Pub. L. 112–213, title II, § 212(a)](/us/pl/112/213/tII/s212/a), (b)(1), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/126/1552); [Pub. L. 113–281, title II, § 221(b)(2)](/us/pl/113/281/tII/s221/b/2), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3038](/us/stat/128/3038); renumbered § 903, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat/132/4205); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8513(a)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4760](/us/stat/134/4760); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7203](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7203), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/139/1688).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 8513(a)(2)(B) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s8513/a/2/B) amended subsec. (d)(1) of this section “amended by section 241(b)(1)”. Section 241(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283), set out as a note preceding [section 501 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s501), Armed Forces, does not amend this section. Section 261(a)(1) of S. 2297, 116th Congress, known as the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2019, as reported to the Senate, would have amended subsec. (d)(1) of this title by striking “reporting” and inserting “briefing”. S. 2297 was not enacted into law.

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60) substituted “$2,000,000” for “$1,500,000”.

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8513(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/s8513/a/2/A), substituted “procurement, construction, and improvement of facilities and for research and development” for “acquisition, construction, and improvement of facilities, for research, development, test, and evaluation; and for the alteration of bridges over the navigable waters”.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8513(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s8513/a/2/B), substituted “operations and support” for “operating expenses”.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 656 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s656) as this section.

2014—Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 113–281](/us/pl/113/281) amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on each project undertaken during the course of the preceding fiscal year for which the amount expended under paragraph (1) exceeded $500,000.”

2012—[Pub. L. 112–213, § 212(b)(1)](/us/pl/112/213/s212/b/1), substituted “Use of certain appropriated funds” for “Use of moneys appropriated for acquisition, construction, and improvement; for research, development, test, and evaluation; and for the alteration of bridges over the navigable waters” in section catchline.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 112–213, § 212(a)](/us/pl/112/213/s212/a), added subsec. (d).

1974—[Pub. L. 93–283, § 1(9)(A)](/us/pl/93/283/s1/9/A), substituted “Use of moneys appropriated for acquisition, construction, and improvement; for research, development, test, and evaluation; and for the alteration of bridges over the navigable waters” for “Use of appropriations to restore, replace, establish, or develop facilities” in section catchline.

[Pub. L. 93–283, § 1(9)(B)](/us/pl/93/283/s1/9/B), (C), added subsec. (a) and redesignated former subsecs. (a) and (b) as (b) and (c), respectively.
