---
title: "§ 1337. Joint advisory board; appointment; membership; functions; qualifications; reimbursement limitation"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1337"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1337"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–195, § 7](/us/pl/92/195/s7), Dec. 15, 1971, [85 Stat. 650](/us/stat/85/650).)"
---
# § 1337. Joint advisory board; appointment; membership; functions; qualifications; reimbursement limitation

##### § 1337. Joint advisory board; appointment; membership; functions; qualifications; reimbursement limitation

The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture are authorized and directed to appoint a joint advisory board of not more than nine members to advise them on any matter relating to wild free-roaming horses and burros and their management and protection. They shall select as advisers persons who are not employees of the Federal or State Governments and whom they deem to have special knowledge about protection of horses and burros, management of wildlife, animal husbandry, or natural resources management. Members of the board shall not receive reimbursement except for travel and other expenditures necessary in connection with their services.

*([Pub. L. 92–195, § 7](/us/pl/92/195/s7), Dec. 15, 1971, [85 Stat. 650](/us/stat/85/650).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Boards

Advisory boards in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
