---
title: "§ 7385s–11. Coordination of benefits with respect to State workers compensation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7385s–11"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7385s–11"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3682]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3682), as added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3161](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3161), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2184](/us/stat/118/2184).)"
---
# § 7385s–11. Coordination of benefits with respect to State workers compensation

##### § 7385s–11. Coordination of benefits with respect to State workers compensation

(a) In general An individual who has been awarded compensation under this part, and who has also received benefits from a State workers compensation system by reason of the same covered illness, shall receive compensation specified in this part reduced by the amount of any workers compensation benefits, other than medical benefits and benefits for vocational rehabilitation, that the individual has received under the State workers compensation system by reason of the covered illness, after deducting the reasonable costs, as determined by the Secretary, of obtaining those benefits under the State workers compensation system.

(b) Waiver The Secretary may waive the provisions of subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that the administrative costs and burdens of implementing subsection (a) with respect to a particular case or class of cases justifies such a waiver.

(c) Information Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each State workers compensation authority shall, upon request of the Secretary, provide to the Secretary on a quarterly basis information concerning workers compensation benefits received by any covered DOE contractor employee entitled to compensation or benefits under this part, which shall include the name, Social Security number, and nature and amount of workers compensation benefits for each such employee for which the request was made.

*([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3682]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3682), as added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3161](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3161), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2184](/us/stat/118/2184).)*
