---
title: "§ 2434. Social services reports"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2434"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2434"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4214](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4214), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–145](/us/stat/100/3207-145).)"
---
# § 2434. Social services reports

##### § 2434. Social services reports

(a) Data The Secretary of the Interior, with respect to the administration of any family or social services program by the Bureau of Indian Affairs directly or through contracts under the Indian Self-Determination Act [[25 U.S.C. 5321](/us/usc/t25/s5321) et seq.], shall require the compilation of data relating to the number and types of child abuse and neglect cases seen and the type of assistance provided. Additionally, such data should also be categorized to reflect those cases that involve, or appear to involve, alcohol and substance abuse, those cases which are recurring, and those cases which involve other minor siblings.

(b) Referral of data The data compiled pursuant to subsection (a) shall be provided annually to the affected Indian tribe and Tribal Coordinating Committee to assist them in developing or modifying a Tribal Action Plan and shall also be submitted to the Indian Health Service service unit director who will have responsibility for compiling a tribal comprehensive report as provided in section 2477 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(c) Confidentiality In carrying out the requirements of subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall insure that the data is compiled and reported in a manner which will preserve the confidentiality of the families and individuals.

*([Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4214](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4214), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–145](/us/stat/100/3207-145).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is title I of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/88/2206), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 5321 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

[Section 2477 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2477), referred to in subsec. (b), was repealed by [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 702(b)(2)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s702/b/2), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4582](/us/stat/106/4582).
