---
title: "§ 4661. Prohibition on certain procurements from the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region"
identifier: "USC-T10-S4661"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4661"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title VIII, § 855(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tVIII/s855/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2723](/us/stat/136/2723).)"
---
# § 4661. Prohibition on certain procurements from the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region

##### § 4661. Prohibition on certain procurements from the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region

(a) Prohibition on the Availability of Funds for Certain Procurements From XUAR.— None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by a national defense authorization Act or any other Act, or otherwise made available for any fiscal year for the Department of Defense, may be obligated or expended to knowingly procure any products mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part by forced labor from XUAR or from an entity that has used labor from within or transferred from XUAR as part of a “poverty alleviation” or “pairing assistance” program.

(b) Definitions.— In this section, the terms “forced labor” and “XUAR” have the meanings given, respectively, in [section 2496 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2496).

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title VIII, § 855(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tVIII/s855/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2723](/us/stat/136/2723).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Policy Required

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title VIII, § 855(d)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tVIII/s855/d), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2723](/us/stat/136/2723), provided that: “Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Secretary of Defense shall issue a policy to require that an offeror or awardee of a Department of Defense contract shall make a good faith effort to determine that forced labor from XUAR, as described in [section 4661 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s4661), United States Code (as amended by subsection (b)), will not be used in the performance of such contract.”
