---
title: "§ 1822. Jurisdiction of District Court; original jurisdiction; procedural requirements"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1822"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1822"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–157, § 2](/us/pl/95/157/s2), Nov. 8, 1977, [91 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/91/1266); [Pub. L. 98–454, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/98/454/tIX/s902), Oct. 5, 1984, [98 Stat. 1744](/us/stat/98/1744).)"
---
# § 1822. Jurisdiction of District Court; original jurisdiction; procedural requirements

##### § 1822. Jurisdiction of District Court; original jurisdiction; procedural requirements

(a) The District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands shall have the jurisdiction of a District Court of the United States, including, but not limited to, the diversity jurisdiction provided for in [section 1332 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1332) and that of a bankruptcy court of the United States.

(b) The district court shall have original jurisdiction in all causes in the Northern Mariana Islands not described in subsection (a) jurisdiction over which is not vested by the Constitution or laws of the Northern Mariana Islands in a court or courts of the Northern Mariana Islands. In causes brought in the district court solely on the basis of this subsection, the district court shall be considered a court of the Northern Mariana Islands for the purposes of determining the requirements of indictment by grand jury or trial by jury.

*([Pub. L. 95–157, § 2](/us/pl/95/157/s2), Nov. 8, 1977, [91 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/91/1266); [Pub. L. 98–454, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/98/454/tIX/s902), Oct. 5, 1984, [98 Stat. 1744](/us/stat/98/1744).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1694a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1694a).

#### Amendments

1984—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 98–454](/us/pl/98/454) amended subsec. (a) generally, substituting “, including, but not limited to, the diversity jurisdiction provided for in [section 1332 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1332) and that of a bankruptcy court of the United States” for “, except that in all causes arising under the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, it shall have jurisdiction regardless of the sum or value of the matter in controversy”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–454](/us/pl/98/454) effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see [section 1005 of Pub. L. 98–454](/us/pl/98/454/s1005), set out as a note under [section 1424 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1424).

#### Effective Date

For effective date of this section, see [section 1825 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1825) and Effective Date of Constitution note thereunder.
