---
title: "§ 21507. Implementation plan"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–119, § 9](/us/pl/114/119/s9), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 25](/us/stat/130/25).)"
---
# § 21507. Implementation plan

##### § 21507. Implementation plan

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after February 8, 2016, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General shall develop a process by which to implement [section 21503(e)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s21503/e/5) and the provisions of [section 212b of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s212b).

(b) Reporting requirement Not later than 90 days after February 8, 2016, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General shall jointly submit a report to, and shall consult with, the appropriate congressional committees on the process developed under subsection (a), which shall include a description of the proposed process and a timeline and plan for implementation of that process, and shall identify the resources required to effectively implement that process.

(c) “Appropriate congressional committees” defined In this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;

(3) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;

(4) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives;

(5) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;

(6) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives;

(7) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

(8) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 114–119, § 9](/us/pl/114/119/s9), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 25](/us/stat/130/25).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16935f of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16935f), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
