---
title: "§ 19291. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19291"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19291"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10701](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10701), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1701](/us/stat/136/1701).)"
---
# § 19291. Definitions

##### § 19291. Definitions

(1) Clean energy technology The term “clean energy technology” means a technology that significantly reduces energy use, increases energy efficiency, reduces greenhouse gas emissions, reduces emissions of other pollutants, or mitigates other negative environmental consequences of energy production, transmission or use.

(2) Department The term “Department” means the Department of Energy.

(3) Director The term “Director” means the Director of each National Laboratory and the Director of each Department of Energy single-purpose research facility.

(4) Economically distressed area The term “economically distressed area” has the meaning described in [section 3161(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3161/a).

(5) Grant The term “grant” means a grant award, cooperative agreement award, or any other financial assistance arrangement that the Secretary of Energy determines to be appropriate.

(6) Institution of higher education The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given such term in [section 1001 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

(7) National Laboratory The term “National Laboratory” has the meaning given that term in [section 15801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801).

(8) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Energy.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10701](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10701), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1701](/us/stat/136/1701).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle J (§§ 10701–10727) of title VI of div. B of [Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167), which is classified principally to this part. For complete classification of subtitle J to the Code, see Tables.
