---
title: "§ 1903. Audit; monitoring and evaluation"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–221, title II, § 204](/us/pl/98/221/tII/s204), Feb. 22, 1984, [98 Stat. 33](/us/stat/98/33); [Pub. L. 102–569, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/102/569/tIX/s903), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4482](/us/stat/106/4482).)"
---
# § 1903. Audit; monitoring and evaluation

##### § 1903. Audit; monitoring and evaluation

(a) The books and accounts of the Center shall be audited annually by an independent auditor in the manner prescribed by the Secretary and a report on each such audit shall be submitted by the auditor to the Secretary within 15 days following the completion of the audit and acceptance of the audit by the Center.

(b)

(1) The Secretary shall establish procedures for monitoring, on a regular basis, the services performed and the training conducted by the Center.

(2) The Secretary shall, in addition to the regular monitoring required under paragraph (1), conduct an evaluation of the operation of the Center at the end of each fiscal year. A written report of such evaluation shall be submitted to the President, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, and the Secretary of the Senate within one hundred and eighty days after the end of the fiscal year for which such evaluation was conducted. The first such report shall be submitted for fiscal year 1983.

*([Pub. L. 98–221, title II, § 204](/us/pl/98/221/tII/s204), Feb. 22, 1984, [98 Stat. 33](/us/stat/98/33); [Pub. L. 102–569, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/102/569/tIX/s903), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4482](/us/stat/106/4482).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–569](/us/pl/102/569) substituted “within 15 days following the completion of the audit and acceptance of the audit by the Center” for “at such time as the Secretary shall prescribe”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (b)(2) of this section relating to submitting a written report to the Clerk of the House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and page 81 of House Document No. 103–7.
