---
title: "§ 798. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S798"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section798"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–319, § 14](/us/pl/93/319/s14), June 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 265](/us/stat/88/265).)"
---
# § 798. Definitions

##### § 798. Definitions

(a) For purposes of this chapter and the Clean Air Act [[42 U.S.C. 7401](/us/usc/t42/s7401) et seq.] the term “Federal Energy Administrator” means the Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration established by Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 [[15 U.S.C. 761](/us/usc/t15/s761) et seq.]; except that until such Administrator takes office and after such Administration ceases to exist, such term means any officer of the United States designated as Federal Energy Administrator by the President for purposes of this chapter and section 119 11 See References in Text note below. of the Clean Air Act [[42 U.S.C. 1857c–10](/us/usc/t42/s1857c–10)].

(b) For purposes of this chapter, the term “petroleum product” means crude oil, residual fuel oil, or any refined petroleum product (as defined in section 752(5) ^1 of this title).

*([Pub. L. 93–319, § 14](/us/pl/93/319/s14), June 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 265](/us/stat/88/265).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–319](/us/pl/93/319). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 791 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s791) and Tables.

The Clean Air Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), [69 Stat. 322](/us/stat/69/322), which is classified generally to chapter 85 (§ 7401 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7401 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7401) and Tables.

Section 119 of the Clean Air Act [[42 U.S.C. 1857c–10](/us/usc/t42/s1857c–10)], referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by [Pub. L. 95–95, § 112(b)(1)](/us/pl/95/95/s112/b/1), Aug. 7, 1977, [91 Stat. 709](/us/stat/91/709), which is set out as a Compliance Orders note under [section 792 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s792). A new section 119 of the Clean Air Act was added by [Pub. L. 95–95, § 117(b)](/us/pl/95/95/s117/b), and is classified to [section 7419 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7419).

The Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 93–275](/us/pl/93/275), May 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 96](/us/stat/88/96), which is classified generally to chapter 16B (§ 761 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 761 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s761) and Tables.

[Section 752 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s752), referred to in subsec. (b), was omitted from the Code pursuant to [section 760g of this title](/us/usc/t15/s760g), which provided for the expiration of the President’s authority under that section on Sept. 30, 1981.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Federal Energy Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.
