---
title: "§ 16194. Building standards"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16194"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16194"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 914](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s914), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 861](/us/stat/119/861).)"
---
# § 16194. Building standards

##### § 16194. Building standards

(a) Definition of high performance building In this section, the term “high performance building” means a building that integrates and optimizes all major high-performance building attributes, including energy efficiency, durability, life-cycle performance, and occupant productivity.

(b) Assessment Not later than 120 days after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the National Institute of Building Sciences to—

(1) conduct an assessment (in cooperation with industry, standards development organizations, and other entities, as appropriate) of whether the current voluntary consensus standards and rating systems for high performance buildings are consistent with the current technological state of the art, including relevant results from the research, development and demonstration activities of the Department;

(2) determine if additional research is required, based on the findings of the assessment; and

(3) recommend steps for the Secretary to accelerate the development of voluntary consensus-based standards for high performance buildings that are based on the findings of the assessment.

(c) Grant and technical assistance program Consistent with subsection (b) and section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 ([15 U.S.C. 272](/us/usc/t15/s272) note), the Secretary shall establish a grant and technical assistance program to support the development of voluntary consensus-based standards for high performance buildings.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 914](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s914), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 861](/us/stat/119/861).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995, referred to in subsec. (c), is [section 12(d) of Pub. L. 104–113](/us/pl/104/113/s12/d), which is set out as a note under [section 272 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s272), Commerce and Trade.
