---
title: "§ 3232. Counterintelligence initiatives"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3232"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3232"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1102, as added [Pub. L. 108–177, title III, § 341(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/177/tIII/s341/a/1), Dec. 13, 2003, [117 Stat. 2615](/us/stat/117/2615); amended [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(a)(1)(NN)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/a/1/NN)–(QQ), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3689](/us/stat/118/3689), 3690; [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 347(e)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s347/e), title IV, § 409, Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2699](/us/stat/124/2699), 2724.)"
---
# § 3232. Counterintelligence initiatives

##### § 3232. Counterintelligence initiatives

(a) Inspection process In order to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure, the Director of National Intelligence shall establish and implement an inspection process for all agencies and departments of the United States that handle classified information relating to the national security of the United States intended to assure that those agencies and departments maintain effective operational security practices and programs directed against counterintelligence activities.

(b) Annual review of dissemination lists The Director of National Intelligence shall establish and implement a process for all elements of the intelligence community to review, on an annual basis, individuals included on distribution lists for access to classified information. Such process shall ensure that only individuals who have a particularized “need to know” (as determined by the Director) are continued on such distribution lists.

(c) Completion of financial disclosure statements required for access to certain classified information The Director of National Intelligence shall establish and implement a process by which each head of an element of the intelligence community directs that all employees of that element, in order to be granted access to classified information referred to in subsection (a) of section 1.3 of Executive Order No. 12968 (August 2, 1995; 60 Fed. Reg. 40245; [former] [50 U.S.C. 435](/us/usc/t50/s435) note [now [50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note]), submit financial disclosure forms as required under subsection (b) of such section.

(d) Arrangements to handle sensitive information The Director of National Intelligence shall establish, for all elements of the intelligence community, programs and procedures by which sensitive classified information relating to human intelligence is safeguarded against unauthorized disclosure by employees of those elements.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1102, as added [Pub. L. 108–177, title III, § 341(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/177/tIII/s341/a/1), Dec. 13, 2003, [117 Stat. 2615](/us/stat/117/2615); amended [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(a)(1)(NN)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/a/1/NN)–(QQ), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3689](/us/stat/118/3689), 3690; [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 347(e)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s347/e), title IV, § 409, Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2699](/us/stat/124/2699), 2724.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 442a of this title](/us/usc/t50/s442a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–259, § 409(1)](/us/pl/111/259/s409/1), struck out par. (1) designation before “In” and par. (2) which read as follows: “The Director shall carry out the process through the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–259, § 347(e)](/us/pl/111/259/s347/e), struck out par. (1) designation before “The Director” and par. (2) which read as follows: “Not later than October 15 of each year, the Director shall certify to the congressional intelligence committees that the review required under paragraph (1) has been conducted in all elements of the intelligence community during the preceding fiscal year.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–259, § 409(2)](/us/pl/111/259/s409/2), struck out par. (1) designation before “The Director” and par. (2) which read as follows: “The Director shall carry out paragraph (1) through the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive.”

2004—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 108–458, § 1071(a)(1)(NN)](/us/pl/108/458/s1071/a/1/NN), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 108–458, § 1071(a)(1)(OO)](/us/pl/108/458/s1071/a/1/OO), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 108–458, § 1071(a)(1)(PP)](/us/pl/108/458/s1071/a/1/PP), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 108–458, § 1071(a)(1)(QQ)](/us/pl/108/458/s1071/a/1/QQ), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

For Determination by President that amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
