---
title: "§ 304112. Effectiveness of Federal grant and assistance programs"
identifier: "USC-T54-S304112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section304112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3214](/us/stat/128/3214).)"
---
# § 304112. Effectiveness of Federal grant and assistance programs

##### § 304112. Effectiveness of Federal grant and assistance programs

(a) Cooperative Agreements.— The Council may enter into a cooperative agreement with any Federal agency that administers a grant or assistance program for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the administration of the program in meeting the purposes and policies of this division. The cooperative agreement may include provisions that modify the selection criteria for a grant or assistance program to further the purposes of this division or that allow the Council to participate in the selection of recipients, if those provisions are not inconsistent with the grant or assistance program’s statutory authorization and purpose.

(b) Review of Grant and Assistance Programs.— The Council may—

(1) review the operation of any Federal grant or assistance program to evaluate the effectiveness of the program in meeting the purposes and policies of this division;

(2) make recommendations to the head of any Federal agency that administers the program to further the consistency of the program with the purposes and policies of this division and to improve its effectiveness in carrying out those purposes and policies; and

(3) make recommendations to the President and Congress regarding the effectiveness of Federal grant and assistance programs in meeting the purposes and policies of this division, including recommendations with regard to appropriate funding levels.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3214](/us/stat/128/3214).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 304112 | 16 U.S.C. 470v–2. | Pub. L. 89–665, title II, § 216, as added Pub. L. 109–453, § 1(g), Dec. 22, 2006, 120 Stat. 3368. |
