---
title: "§ 3774. Major weapon systems and subsystems: long-term technical data needs"
identifier: "USC-T10-S3774"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3774"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1833(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1833/a/1), (e), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/134/4226), 4229.)"
---
# § 3774. Major weapon systems and subsystems: long-term technical data needs

##### § 3774. Major weapon systems and subsystems: long-term technical data needs

(a) Assessments and Acquisitions Strategies.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense shall require program managers for major weapon systems and subsystems of major weapon systems to—

(A) assess the long-term technical data needs of such systems and subsystems; and

(B) establish corresponding acquisition strategies that provide for technical data rights needed to sustain such systems and subsystems over their life cycle.

(2) Such strategies may include—

(A) the development of maintenance capabilities within the Department of Defense; or

(B) competition for contracts for sustainment of such systems or subsystems.

(b) Requirements Relating to Assessments and Acquisition Strategies.— Assessments and corresponding acquisition strategies developed under subsection (a) with respect to a weapon system or subsystem shall—

(1) be developed before issuance of a contract solicitation for the weapon system or subsystem;

(2) address the merits of including a priced contract option for the future delivery of technical data that were not acquired upon initial contract award;

(3) address the potential for changes in the sustainment plan over the life cycle of the weapon system or subsystem; and

(4) apply to weapon systems and subsystems that are to be supported by performance-based logistics arrangements as well as to weapons systems and subsystems that are to be supported by other sustainment approaches.

(c) Preference for Specially Negotiated Licenses.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense shall, to the maximum extent practicable, negotiate and enter into a contract with a contractor for a specially negotiated license for technical data to support the product support strategy of a major weapon system or subsystem of a major weapon system.

(2) In performing the assessment and developing the corresponding strategy required under subsection (a) for such a system or subsystem, a program manager shall consider the use of specially negotiated licenses to acquire customized technical data appropriate for the particular elements of the product support strategy.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1833(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1833/a/1), (e), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/134/4226), 4229.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The text of subsec. (e) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320), which was transferred to this section, redesignated as subsecs. (a) and (b), and amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(e)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/e/1)–(4), was based on [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VIII, § 802(a)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tVIII/s802/a), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2312](/us/stat/120/2312).

The text of subsec. (f) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320), which was transferred to this section, redesignated as subsec. (c), and amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(e)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/e/1), (5), was based on [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, § 835(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVIII/s835/c/2), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/131/1471).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(e)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/e/1), (3)(A), (B), redesignated subsec. (e) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320) as subsec. (a) of this section, inserted heading, and designated first and second sentences of existing provisions as pars. (1) and (2), respectively. Third sentence of subsec. (a) designated subsec. (b).

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(e)(3)(C)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/e/3/C), inserted dash after “major weapon systems to” and reorganized remainder of text into designated subpars. (A) and (B).

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(e)(3)(D)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/e/3/D), inserted dash after “may include” and reorganized remainder of text into designated subpars. (A) and (B).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(e)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/e/2), (4), designated third sentence of subsec. (a) as subsec. (b), inserted heading, and substituted “developed under subsection (a) with respect to” for “developed under this section with respect to” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(e)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/e/1), (5), redesignated subsec. (f) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320) as subsec. (c) of this section, designated first and second sentences of existing provisions as pars. (1) and (2), respectively, and, in par. (2), substituted “subsection (a)” for “subsection (e)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VIII, § 802(c)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tVIII/s802/c), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2313](/us/stat/120/2313), provided that: “Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 2006], the Secretary of Defense shall revise regulations under [section 2320 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2320), United States Code [see [10 U.S.C. 3771](/us/usc/t10/s3771) et seq.], to implement subsection (e) of such section [see [10 U.S.C. 3774(a)](/us/usc/t10/s3774/a), (b)] (as added by this section), including incorporating policy changes developed under such subsection into Department of Defense Directive 5000.1 and Department of Defense Instruction 5000.2.”

#### Guidance Relating to Rights in Technical Data

[Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, § 824(a)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tVIII/s824/a), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4269](/us/stat/124/4269), which required the Secretary of Defense to review certain guidance relating to rights in technical data, was repealed by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. A, title VIII, § 811(b)(12)(C)](/us/pl/119/60/dA/tVIII/s811/b/12/C), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 949](/us/stat/139/949).
