---
title: "§ 8222. Translation of human rights reports"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8222"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8222"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XXI, § 2122](/us/pl/110/53/tXXI/s2122), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 532](/us/stat/121/532).)"
---
# § 8222. Translation of human rights reports

##### § 8222. Translation of human rights reports

(a) In general The Secretary shall continue to expand the timely translation of the applicable parts of the Country Reports on Human Rights Practices required under sections 2151n(d) and 2304(b) of this title, the Annual Report on International Religious Freedom required under [section 6412(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6412/b), the Trafficking in Persons Report required under [section 7107(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7107/b), and any separate report on democracy and human rights policy submitted in accordance with section 665(c) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 ([Public Law 107–228](/us/pl/107/228); [22 U.S.C. 2151n](/us/usc/t22/s2151n) note) into the principal languages of as many countries as possible, with particular emphasis on nondemocratic countries, democratic transition countries, and countries in which extrajudicial killings, torture, or other serious violations of human rights have occurred.

(b) Report

(1) Requirement Not later than April 1, 2008, and annually thereafter through 2010, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing any translations of the reports specified in subsection (a) for the preceding year, including which of such reports have been translated into which principal languages and the countries in which such translations have been distributed by posting on a relevant website or elsewhere.

(2) Form The report required under paragraph (1) may be included in any separate report on democracy and human rights policy submitted in accordance with section 665(c) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003.

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XXI, § 2122](/us/pl/110/53/tXXI/s2122), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 532](/us/stat/121/532).)*
