---
title: "§ 3701. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12402](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12402), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1436](/us/stat/123/1436); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10642](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10642), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/136/1672).)"
---
# § 3701. Purposes

##### § 3701. Purposes

(1) development coordination 11 So in original. and implementation of a comprehensive interagency plan to—

(A) monitor and conduct research on the processes and consequences of ocean acidification and coastal acidification on marine organisms and ecosystems; and

(B) maintain and advise an interagency research, monitoring, and public outreach program on ocean acidification and coastal acidification;

(2) maintenance of an ocean acidification program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;

(3) assessment and consideration of regional and national ecosystem and socioeconomic impacts of increased ocean acidification and coastal acidification; and

(4) research adaptation strategies and mitigating the impacts of ocean and coastal acidification and related co-stressors on marine ecosystems.

*([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12402](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12402), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1436](/us/stat/123/1436); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10642](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10642), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/136/1672).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–167, § 10642(b)](/us/pl/117/167/s10642/b), struck out subsec. (a) designation and heading “Purposes” before “The purposes” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10642(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/s10642/a/1), substituted “development coordination and implementation” for “development and coordination” in introductory provisions, “acidification and coastal acidification on marine organisms” for “acidification on marine organisms” in subpar. (A), and “maintain and advise an interagency research, monitoring, and public outreach program on ocean acidification and coastal acidification;” for “establish an interagency research and monitoring program on ocean acidification;” in subpar. (B).

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10642(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/167/s10642/a/2), substituted “maintenance” for “establishment”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10642(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/167/s10642/a/3), inserted “and coastal acidification” after “ocean acidification”.

Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10642(a)(4)](/us/pl/117/167/s10642/a/4), substituted “mitigating the impacts of ocean and coastal acidification and related co-stressors on marine ecosystems.” for “techniques for effectively conserving marine ecosystems as they cope with increased ocean acidification.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2022 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10641](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10641), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/136/1672), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle E (§§ 10641–10649) of title VI of div. B of [Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167), amending this section and sections 3702 to 3708 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Coastal and Ocean Acidification Research and Innovation Act of 2021’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12401](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12401), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1436](/us/stat/123/1436), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle D (§§ 12401–12409) of title XII of [Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11), enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Federal Ocean Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009’ or the ‘FOARAM Act’.”
