---
title: "§ 460v–4. Lands withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under United States mining laws; removal of minerals; receipts, disposition"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460v–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460v–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–540, § 5](/us/pl/90/540/s5), Oct. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 904](/us/stat/82/904).)"
---
# § 460v–4. Lands withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under United States mining laws; removal of minerals; receipts, disposition

##### § 460v–4. Lands withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under United States mining laws; removal of minerals; receipts, disposition

The lands within the recreation area, subject to valid existing rights, are hereby withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under the United States mining laws. The Secretary of the Interior, under such regulations as he deems appropriate, may permit the removal of the nonleasable minerals from lands or interests in lands within the recreation area in the manner prescribed by [section 387 of title 43](/us/usc/t43/s387), and he may permit the removal of leasable minerals from lands or interests in lands within the recreation area in accordance with the Mineral Leasing Act of February 24, 1920,11 So in original. Probably should be “February 25, 1920,”. as amended [[30 U.S.C. 181](/us/usc/t30/s181) et seq.], or the Acquired Lands Mineral Leasing Act of August 7, 1947 [[30 U.S.C. 351](/us/usc/t30/s351) et seq.], if he finds that such disposition would not have significant adverse effects on the purposes of the Colorado River storage project and the Secretary of Agriculture finds that such disposition would not have significant adverse effects on the purposes of the recreation area: *Provided*, That any lease or permit respecting such minerals in the recreation area shall be issued only with the consent of the Secretary of Agriculture and subject to such conditions as he may prescribe.

All receipts derived from permits and leases issued under the authority of this section for removal of nonleasable minerals shall be paid into the same funds or accounts in the Treasury of the United States and shall be distributed in the same manner as provided for receipts from national forests. Any receipts derived from permits or leases issued on lands in the recreation area under the Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, as amended, or the Act of August 7, 1947, shall be disposed of as provided in the applicable Act.

*([Pub. L. 90–540, § 5](/us/pl/90/540/s5), Oct. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 904](/us/stat/82/904).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Acquired Lands Mineral Leasing Act of August 7, 1947, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 513](/us/act/1947-08-07/ch513), [61 Stat. 913](/us/stat/61/913), which is classified generally to chapter 7 (§ 351 et seq.) of Title 30. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 351 of Title 30](/us/usc/t30/s351) and Tables.
