---
title: "§ 360e–1. Pediatric uses of devices"
identifier: "USC-T21-S360e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section360e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 515A](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s515A), as added [Pub. L. 110–85, title III, § 302](/us/pl/110/85/tIII/s302), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 859](/us/stat/121/859); amended [Pub. L. 115–52, title V, § 502(a)](/us/pl/115/52/tV/s502/a), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/131/1037).)"
---
# § 360e–1. Pediatric uses of devices

##### § 360e–1. Pediatric uses of devices

(a) New devices

For the items described in this paragraph, such report shall disaggregate the number of devices by pediatric subpopulation.

(1) In general A person that submits to the Secretary an application under [section 360j(m) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s360j/m), or an application (or supplement to an application) or a product development protocol under [section 360e of this title](/us/usc/t21/s360e), shall include in the application or protocol the information described in paragraph (2).

(2) Required information The application or protocol described in paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to the device for which approval is sought and if readily available—

(A) a description of any pediatric subpopulations that suffer from the disease or condition that the device is intended to treat, diagnose, or cure; and

(B) the number of affected pediatric patients.

(3) Annual report Not later than 18 months after September 27, 2007, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that includes—

(A) the number of devices approved in the year preceding the year in which the report is submitted, for which there is a pediatric subpopulation that suffers from the disease or condition that the device is intended to treat, diagnose, or cure;

(B) any information, based on a review of data available to the Secretary, regarding devices used in pediatric patients but not labeled for such use for which the Secretary determines that approved pediatric labeling could confer a benefit to pediatric patients;

(C) the number of pediatric devices that receive a humanitarian use exemption under [section 360j(m) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s360j/m);

(D) the number of devices approved in the year preceding the year in which the report is submitted, labeled for use in pediatric patients;

(E) the number of pediatric devices approved in the year preceding the year in which the report is submitted, exempted from a fee pursuant to [section 379j(a)(2)(B)(v) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j/a/2/B/v);

(F) the review time for each device described in subparagraphs (A), (C), (D), and (E);

(G) the number of devices for which the Secretary relied on data with respect to adults to support a determination of a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients; and

(H) the number of devices for which the Secretary relied on data from one pediatric subpopulation to support a determination of a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness in another pediatric subpopulation.

(b) Determination of pediatric effectiveness based on similar course of disease or condition or similar effect of device on adults

(1) In general If the course of the disease or condition and the effects of the device are sufficiently similar in adults and pediatric patients, the Secretary may conclude that adult data may be used to support a determination of a reasonable assurance of effectiveness in pediatric populations, as appropriate.

(2) Extrapolation between subpopulations A study may not be needed in each pediatric subpopulation if data from one subpopulation can be extrapolated to another subpopulation.

(c) Pediatric subpopulation For purposes of this section, the term “pediatric subpopulation” has the meaning given the term in [section 360j(m)(6)(E)(ii) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s360j/m/6/E/ii).

*([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 515A](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s515A), as added [Pub. L. 110–85, title III, § 302](/us/pl/110/85/tIII/s302), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 859](/us/stat/121/859); amended [Pub. L. 115–52, title V, § 502(a)](/us/pl/115/52/tV/s502/a), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/131/1037).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 115–52](/us/pl/115/52) added subpars. (B), (C), (G), and (H), redesignated former subpars. (B) to (D) as (D) to (F), respectively, substituted “(C), (D), and (E);” for “(B), and (C).” in subpar. (F), and inserted concluding provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Final Rule Relating to Tracking of Pediatric Uses of Devices

[Pub. L. 112–144, title VI, § 620(b)](/us/pl/112/144/tVI/s620/b), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/126/1064), provided that: “The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue— “(1) a proposed rule implementing section 515A(a)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ([21 U.S.C. 360e–1(a)(2)](/us/usc/t21/s360e–1/a/2)) not later than December 31, 2012; and “(2) a final rule implementing such section not later than December 31, 2013.”
