---
title: "§§ 441 to 448. Omitted"
identifier: "USC-T12-S441...448"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section441...448"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
---
# §§ 441 to 448. Omitted

##### §§ 441 to 448. Omitted

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Sections, [act Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 18](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s18), [38 Stat. 268](/us/stat/38/268), as amended by acts [Mar. 9, 1933, ch. 1](/us/act/1933-03-09/ch1), title IV, § 401, [48 Stat. 6](/us/stat/48/6); Sept. 23, 1994, [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(7)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/7), [108 Stat. 2293](/us/stat/108/2293), are omitted as obsolete.

Section 441 provided that at any time during a period of twenty years from Dec. 23, 1915, any member bank desiring to retire the whole or any part of its circulating notes file with the Treasurer of the United States an application to sell for its account, at par and accrued interest, United States bonds, securing circulation to be retired.

Section 442 related to purchase of bonds by reserve banks.

Section 443 related to transfer of bonds purchased, payment, and cancellation of circulating notes of member banks.

Section 444 related to issuance of circulating notes to reserve banks purchasing bonds.

Section 445 provided for issuance of circulating notes to Federal Reserve banks. [Act June 12, 1945, ch. 186, § 3](/us/act/1945-06-12/ch186/s3), [59 Stat. 238](/us/stat/59/238), provided that all power and authority with respect to the issuance of circulating notes, known as Federal Reserve bank notes, pursuant to this section would cease and terminate on June 12, 1945.

Section 446 related to exchange by reserve banks of bonds bearing circulating privilege for those without such privilege.

Section 447 related to form of bonds and conditions of issuance.

Section 448 related to exchange of one-year gold notes for 3 per centum gold bonds.
