---
title: "§ 6250. Establishment"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6250"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6250"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–163, title I, § 181](/us/pl/94/163/tI/s181), as added [Pub. L. 106–469, title II, § 201(a)(3)](/us/pl/106/469/tII/s201/a/3), Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/114/2034).)"
---
# § 6250. Establishment

##### § 6250. Establishment

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Secretary may establish, maintain, and operate in the Northeast a Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve. A Reserve established under this part is not a component of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve established under part B of this subchapter. A Reserve established under this part shall contain no more than 2 million barrels of petroleum distillate.

(b) For the purposes of this part—

(1) the term “Northeast” means the States of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New York, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey;

(2) the term “petroleum distillate” includes heating oil and diesel fuel; and

(3) the term “Reserve” means the Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve established under this part.

*([Pub. L. 94–163, title I, § 181](/us/pl/94/163/tI/s181), as added [Pub. L. 106–469, title II, § 201(a)(3)](/us/pl/106/469/tII/s201/a/3), Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/114/2034).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–163](/us/pl/94/163), Dec. 22, 1975, [89 Stat. 871](/us/stat/89/871), known as the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6201) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 181 of Pub. L. 94–163](/us/pl/94/163/s181) was renumbered section 191 and was classified to [section 6251 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6251), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58).
