---
title: "§ 1289. Basin planning"
identifier: "USC-T33-S1289"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section1289"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([June 30, 1948, ch. 758](/us/act/1948-06-30/ch758), title II, § 209, as added [Pub. L. 92–500, § 2](/us/pl/92/500/s2), Oct. 18, 1972, [86 Stat. 843](/us/stat/86/843).)"
---
# § 1289. Basin planning

##### § 1289. Basin planning

(a) Preparation of Level B plans The President, acting through the Water Resources Council, shall, as soon as practicable, prepare a Level B plan under the Water Resources Planning Act [[42 U.S.C. 1962](/us/usc/t42/s1962) et seq.] for all basins in the United States. All such plans shall be completed not later than January 1, 1980, except that priority in the preparation of such plans shall be given to those basins and portions thereof which are within those areas designated under paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (a) of [section 1288 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1288).

(b) Reporting requirements The President, acting through the Water Resources Council, shall report annually to Congress on progress being made in carrying out this section. The first such report shall be submitted not later than January 31, 1973.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section not to exceed $200,000,000.

*([June 30, 1948, ch. 758](/us/act/1948-06-30/ch758), title II, § 209, as added [Pub. L. 92–500, § 2](/us/pl/92/500/s2), Oct. 18, 1972, [86 Stat. 843](/us/stat/86/843).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Water Resources Planning Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 89–80](/us/pl/89/80), July 22, 1965, [79 Stat. 244](/us/stat/79/244), which is classified generally to chapter 19B (§ 1962 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1962 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1962) and Tables.
