---
title: "§ 2712. Reporting on usage and spills of aqueous film-forming foam"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2712"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2712"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title III, § 318(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIII/s318/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3519](/us/stat/134/3519).)"
---
# § 2712. Reporting on usage and spills of aqueous film-forming foam

##### § 2712. Reporting on usage and spills of aqueous film-forming foam

(a) In General.— Not later than 48 hours after the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Environment receives notice of the usage or spill of aqueous film forming foam, either as concentrate or mixed foam, at any military installation, the Deputy Assistant Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives notice of a usage or spill of greater than 10 gallons of concentrate, or greater than 300 gallons of mixed foam. Each such notice shall include each of the following information:

(1) The name of the installation where the usage or spill occurred.

(2) The date on which the usage or spill occurred.

(3) The amount, type, and specified concentration of aqueous film-forming foam that was used or spilled.

(4) The cause of the usage or spill.

(5) A summary narrative of the usage or spill.

(b) Action Plan.— Not later than 60 days after submitting notice of a usage or spill under subsection (a), the Deputy Assistant Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an action plan for addressing such usage or spill. The action plan shall include the following:

(1) A description of what actions have been taken to arrest and clean up a spill.

(2) A description of any coordination with relevant local and State environmental protection agencies.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title III, § 318(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIII/s318/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3519](/us/stat/134/3519).)*
