---
title: "§ 2695. Grants for healthy school environments"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2695"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2695"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–469, title V, § 501](/us/pl/94/469/tV/s501), as added [Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 461(a)](/us/pl/110/140/tIV/s461/a), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1640](/us/stat/121/1640).)"
---
# § 2695. Grants for healthy school environments

##### § 2695. Grants for healthy school environments

(a) In general The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, may provide grants to States for use in—

(1) providing technical assistance for programs of the Environmental Protection Agency (including the Tools for Schools Program and the Healthy School Environmental Assessment Tool) to schools for use in addressing environmental issues; and

(2) development and implementation of State school environmental health programs that include—

(A) standards for school building design, construction, and renovation; and

(B) identification of ongoing school building environmental problems, including contaminants, hazardous substances, and pollutant emissions, in the State and recommended solutions to address those problems, including assessment of information on the exposure of children to environmental hazards in school facilities.

(b) Sunset The authority of the Administrator to carry out this section shall expire 5 years after December 19, 2007.

*([Pub. L. 94–469, title V, § 501](/us/pl/94/469/tV/s501), as added [Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 461(a)](/us/pl/110/140/tIV/s461/a), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1640](/us/stat/121/1640).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Subchapter effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
