---
title: "§ 20111. Establishment of Office for Victims of Crime"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1411](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1411), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7123(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7123/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4420](/us/stat/102/4420); amended [Pub. L. 112–166, § 2(h)(5)](/us/pl/112/166/s2/h/5), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1285](/us/stat/126/1285).)"
---
# § 20111. Establishment of Office for Victims of Crime

##### § 20111. Establishment of Office for Victims of Crime

(a) Office established within Department of Justice There is established within the Department of Justice an Office for Victims of Crime (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Office”).

(b) Appointment of Director; authority; restrictions The Office shall be headed by a Director (referred to in this subchapter as the “Director”), who shall be appointed by the President. The Director shall report to the Attorney General through the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs and shall have final authority for all grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts awarded by the Office. The Director shall not engage in any employment other than that of serving as the Director, nor shall the Director hold any office in, or act in any capacity for, any organization, agency, or institution with which the Office makes any contract or other agreement under this subchapter.11 See References in Text note below.

(c) Duties of Director The Director shall have the following duties:

(1) Administering funds made available by [section 20101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20101).

(2) Providing funds to eligible States pursuant to sections 20102 and 20103 of this title.

(3) Establishing programs in accordance with [section 20103(c) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20103/c) on terms and conditions determined by the Director to be consistent with that subsection.

(4) Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to States, units of local government, and other public and private organizations or international agencies involved in activities related to crime victims.

(5) Such other functions as the Attorney General may delegate.

*([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1411](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1411), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7123(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7123/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4420](/us/stat/102/4420); amended [Pub. L. 112–166, § 2(h)(5)](/us/pl/112/166/s2/h/5), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1285](/us/stat/126/1285).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, the last place it appears in subsec. (b), was in the original “this part”, which has been translated as reading in the original “this chapter” meaning chapter XIV of title II of [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) to reflect the probable intent of Congress because chapter XIV of title II of [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), which comprises this subchapter, does not contain parts.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 10605 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10605), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2012—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166) struck out “, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate” before period at end of first sentence.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166) effective 60 days after Aug. 10, 2012, and applicable to appointments made on and after that effective date, including any nomination pending in the Senate on that date, see [section 6(a) of Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166/s6/a), set out as a note under [section 113 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s113), Domestic Security.

#### Effective Date

Section not applicable with respect to a State compensation program that was an eligible State crime victim compensation program on Nov. 18, 1988, until Oct. 1, 1991, see [section 7129 of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s7129), as amended, set out as an Effective Date of 1988 Amendment note under [section 20101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20101).
