---
title: "§ 2103. Eligibility for membership"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 88–647, title II, § 201(1)](/us/pl/88/647/tII/s201/1), Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1065](/us/stat/78/1065); amended [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title V, § 551(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tV/s551/a/1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2525](/us/stat/110/2525).)"
---
# § 2103. Eligibility for membership

##### § 2103. Eligibility for membership

(a) To be eligible for membership in the program a person must be a student at an institution where a unit of the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps is established. However, a student at an institution that does not have a unit of the Corps is eligible, if otherwise qualified, to be a member of a unit at another institution.

(b) Persons from foreign countries may be enrolled as members of the program when their enrollment is approved by the Secretary of the military department concerned under criteria approved by the Secretary of State.

(c) A medical, dental, pharmacy, veterinary, or sciences allied to medicine, student may be admitted to a unit of the program for a course of training consisting of 90 hours of instruction a year for four academic years.

(d) Under such conditions as the Secretary of the military department concerned may prescribe, a medical, dental, pharmacy, veterinary, or sciences allied to medicine, student who is a commissioned officer of a reserve component of an armed force may be admitted to and trained in a unit of the program.

(e) An educational institution at which a unit of the program has been established shall give priority for enrollment in the program to students who are eligible for advanced training under [section 2104 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2104).

*(Added [Pub. L. 88–647, title II, § 201(1)](/us/pl/88/647/tII/s201/1), Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1065](/us/stat/78/1065); amended [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title V, § 551(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tV/s551/a/1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2525](/us/stat/110/2525).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) added subsec. (e).
