---
title: "§ 14510. Drug abuse mitigation initiative"
identifier: "USC-T40-S14510"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section14510"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, § 8062(a)](/us/pl/115/271/tVIII/s8062/a), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4094](/us/stat/132/4094).)"
---
# § 14510. Drug abuse mitigation initiative

##### § 14510. Drug abuse mitigation initiative

(a) In General.— The Appalachian Regional Commission may provide technical assistance to, make grants to, enter into contracts with, or otherwise provide amounts to individuals or entities in the Appalachian region for projects and activities to address drug abuse, including opioid abuse, in the region, including projects and activities—

(1) to facilitate the sharing of best practices among States, counties, and other experts in the region with respect to reducing such abuse;

(2) to initiate or expand programs designed to eliminate or reduce the harm to the workforce and economic growth of the region that results from such abuse;

(3) to attract and retain relevant health care services, businesses, and workers; and

(4) to develop relevant infrastructure, including broadband infrastructure that supports the use of telemedicine.

(b) Limitation on Available Amounts.— Of the cost of any activity eligible for a grant under this section—

(1) not more than 50 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; and

(2) notwithstanding paragraph (1)—

(A) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, not more than 80 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; and

(B) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk designation is in effect under section 14526, not more than 70 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section.

(c) Sources of Assistance.— Subject to subsection (b), a grant provided under this section may be provided from amounts made available to carry out this section in combination with amounts made available—

(1) under any other Federal program (subject to the availability of subsequent appropriations); or

(2) from any other source.

(d) Federal Share.— Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the Federal share under any other Federal program, amounts made available to carry out this section may be used to increase that Federal share, as the Appalachian Regional Commission determines to be appropriate.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, § 8062(a)](/us/pl/115/271/tVIII/s8062/a), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4094](/us/stat/132/4094).)*
