---
title: "§ 2137. Reservation of articles for national security or other reasons"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2137"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2137"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–618, title I, § 127(a)](/us/pl/93/618/tI/s127/a), (b), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 1993](/us/stat/88/1993).)"
---
# § 2137. Reservation of articles for national security or other reasons

##### § 2137. Reservation of articles for national security or other reasons

(a) National security considerations No proclamation shall be made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter reducing or eliminating the duty or other import restriction on any article if the President determines that such reduction or elimination would threaten to impair the national security.

(b) Action taken under other laws While there is in effect with respect to any article any action taken under [section 2253 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2253), or section 1862 or 1981 of this title, the President shall reserve such article from negotiations under this subchapter (and from any action under [section 2132(c) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2132/c)) contemplating reduction or elimination of—

In addition, the President shall also so reserve any other article which he determines to be appropriate, taking into consideration information and advice available pursuant to and with respect to the matters covered by sections 2151, 2152, and 2153 of this title, where applicable.

(A) any duty on such article,

(B) any import restriction imposed under such section, or

(C) any other import restriction, the removal of which will be likely to undermine the effect of the import restrictions referred to in subparagraph (B).

*([Pub. L. 93–618, title I, § 127(a)](/us/pl/93/618/tI/s127/a), (b), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 1993](/us/stat/88/1993).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–618](/us/pl/93/618), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 1978](/us/stat/88/1978), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of subsecs. (a) and (b) of section 127 of act Jan. 3, 1975. Subsec. (c) of such section was classified to [section 1863 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1863), prior to its repeal by [Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1501(b)(2)](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1501/b/2), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1259](/us/stat/102/1259), and subsec. (d) amended [section 1862 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1862).
