---
title: "§ 3539. Fund for WTO dispute settlements"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3539"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3539"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–210, div. E, title L, § 5201](/us/pl/107/210/dE/tL/s5201), Aug. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 1047](/us/stat/116/1047).)"
---
# § 3539. Fund for WTO dispute settlements

##### § 3539. Fund for WTO dispute settlements

(a) Establishment of fund There is established in the Treasury a fund for the payment of settlements under this section.

(b) Authority of USTR to pay settlements Amounts in the fund established under subsection (a) shall be available, as provided in appropriations Acts, only for the payment by the United States Trade Representative of the amount of the total or partial settlement of any dispute pursuant to proceedings under the auspices of the World Trade Organization, if—

(1) in the case of a total or partial settlement in an amount of not more than $10,000,000, the Trade Representative certifies to the Secretary of the Treasury that the settlement is in the best interests of the United States; and

(2) in the case of a total or partial settlement in an amount of more than $10,000,000, the Trade Representative certifies to the Congress that the settlement is in the best interests of the United States.

(c) Appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the fund established under subsection (a)—

Amounts appropriated to the fund are authorized to remain available until expended.

(1) $50,000,000; and

(2) amounts equivalent to amounts recovered by the United States pursuant to the settlement of disputes pursuant to proceedings under the auspices of the World Trade Organization.

(d) Management of fund Sections 9601 and 9602(b) of title 26 shall apply to the fund established under subsection (a) to the same extent as such provisions apply to trust funds established under subchapter A of chapter 98 of such title.

*([Pub. L. 107–210, div. E, title L, § 5201](/us/pl/107/210/dE/tL/s5201), Aug. 6, 2002, [116 Stat. 1047](/us/stat/116/1047).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Trade Act of 2002, and not as part of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act which enacted this chapter.
