---
title: "§ 154. Regulations for preparation and sale; licenses"
identifier: "USC-T21-S154"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section154"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 145, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch145/s1) (part), [37 Stat. 832](/us/stat/37/832); [Pub. L. 99–198, title XVII, § 1768(b)](/us/pl/99/198/tXVII/s1768/b), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/99/1654).)"
---
# § 154. Regulations for preparation and sale; licenses

##### § 154. Regulations for preparation and sale; licenses

The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to make and promulgate from time to time such rules and regulations as may be necessary to prevent the preparation, sale, barter, exchange, or shipment as aforesaid of any worthless, contaminated, dangerous, or harmful virus, serum, toxin, or analogous product for use in the treatment of domestic animals, or otherwise to carry out this chapter, and to issue, suspend, and revoke licenses for the maintenance of establishments for the preparation of viruses, serums, toxins, and analogous products, for use in the treatment of domestic animals, intended for sale, barter, exchange, or shipment as aforesaid.

*([Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 145, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch145/s1) (part), [37 Stat. 832](/us/stat/37/832); [Pub. L. 99–198, title XVII, § 1768(b)](/us/pl/99/198/tXVII/s1768/b), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/99/1654).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

See note set out under [section 151 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s151).

Another [section 1768 of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s1768), cited as a credit to this section, amended [section 136y of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s136y), Agriculture.

#### Amendments

1985—[Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198) inserted “or otherwise to carry out this chapter,” after “domestic animals,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198) effective Dec. 23, 1985, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1768(f) of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s1768/f), set out as a note under [section 151 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s151).

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to agricultural import and entry inspection activities under this chapter to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 231, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
