---
title: "§ 1754. Provisions respecting transportation of pupils to achieve racial balance and judicial power to insure compliance with constitutional standards applicable to the entire United States"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1754"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1754"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 255](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s255), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 520](/us/stat/88/520).)"
---
# § 1754. Provisions respecting transportation of pupils to achieve racial balance and judicial power to insure compliance with constitutional standards applicable to the entire United States

##### § 1754. Provisions respecting transportation of pupils to achieve racial balance and judicial power to insure compliance with constitutional standards applicable to the entire United States

The proviso of section 407(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [[42 U.S.C. 2000c–6(a)](/us/usc/t42/s2000c–6/a)] providing in substance that no court or official of the United States shall be empowered to issue any order seeking to achieve a racial balance in any school by requiring the transportation of pupils or students from one school to another or one school district to another in order to achieve such racial balance, or otherwise enlarge the existing power of the court to insure compliance with constitutional standards shall apply to all public school pupils and to every public school system, public school and public school board, as defined by title IV [[42 U.S.C. 2000c](/us/usc/t42/s2000c) et seq.], under all circumstances and conditions and at all times in every State, district, territory, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States, regardless of whether the residence of such public school pupils or the principal offices of such public school system, public school or public school board is situated in the northern, eastern, western, or southern part of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 255](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s255), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 520](/us/stat/88/520).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on and after sixtieth day after Aug. 21, 1974, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 93–380](/us/pl/93/380/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 1221–1 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1221–1).
