---
title: "§ 2210. Deputy Secretary of Agriculture; appointment"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2210"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2210"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Mar. 26, 1934, ch. 89](/us/act/1934-03-26/ch89), title I, [48 Stat. 467](/us/stat/48/467); [Pub. L. 94–561, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/94/561/s1/c/1), Oct. 19, 1976, [90 Stat. 2643](/us/stat/90/2643).)"
---
# § 2210. Deputy Secretary of Agriculture; appointment

##### § 2210. Deputy Secretary of Agriculture; appointment

There is established in the Department of Agriculture the position of Deputy Secretary of Agriculture, to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

*([Mar. 26, 1934, ch. 89](/us/act/1934-03-26/ch89), title I, [48 Stat. 467](/us/stat/48/467); [Pub. L. 94–561, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/94/561/s1/c/1), Oct. 19, 1976, [90 Stat. 2643](/us/stat/90/2643).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Provisions of this section which prescribed the basic compensation of the Under Secretary were omitted to conform to the provisions of act July 31, 1956. See [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees.

Section was formerly classified to [section 514a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s514a) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### Amendments

1976—[Pub. L. 94–561](/us/pl/94/561) substituted “Deputy Secretary of Agriculture” for “Under Secretary of Agriculture”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–561](/us/pl/94/561) effective Oct. 19, 1976, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 94–561](/us/pl/94/561/s5), set out as a note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Status of Incumbent Under Secretary of Agriculture

[Pub. L. 94–561, § 1(d)](/us/pl/94/561/s1/d), Oct. 19, 1976, [90 Stat. 2643](/us/stat/90/2643), provided that: “The officer occupying the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture, on the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 19, 1976], may assume the duties of the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture. The individual assuming such duties shall not be required to be reappointed by reason of the enactment of this Act.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers, agencies, and employees of Department of Agriculture transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953, Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2201).
