---
title: "§ 6811. Coordinated donor strategy for support and education of orphans in sub-Saharan Africa"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6811"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6811"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–264, title I, § 113](/us/pl/106/264/tI/s113), Aug. 19, 2000, [114 Stat. 753](/us/stat/114/753).)"
---
# § 6811. Coordinated donor strategy for support and education of orphans in sub-Saharan Africa

##### § 6811. Coordinated donor strategy for support and education of orphans in sub-Saharan Africa

(a) Statement of policy It is in the national interest of the United States to assist in mitigating the burden that will be placed on sub-Saharan African social, economic, and political institutions as these institutions struggle with the consequences of a dramatically increasing AIDS orphan population, many of whom are themselves infected by HIV and living with AIDS. Effectively addressing that burden and its consequences in sub-Saharan Africa will require a coordinated multidonor strategy.

(b) Development of strategy The President shall coordinate the development of a multidonor strategy to provide for the support and education of AIDS orphans and the families, communities, and institutions most affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa.

(c) Definition In this section, the term “HIV/AIDS” means, with respect to an individual, an individual who is infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the pathogen that causes the acquired immune deficiency virus (AIDS), or living with AIDS.

*([Pub. L. 106–264, title I, § 113](/us/pl/106/264/tI/s113), Aug. 19, 2000, [114 Stat. 753](/us/stat/114/753).)*
