---
title: "§ 734. Stationery and blank books for Congress"
identifier: "USC-T44-S734"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section734"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/82/1254); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)"
---
# § 734. Stationery and blank books for Congress

##### § 734. Stationery and blank books for Congress

Upon requisition of the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives, respectively, the Director of the Government Publishing Office shall furnish stationery, blank books, tables, forms, and other necessary papers preparatory to congressional legislation, required for the official use of the Senate and the House of Representatives, or their committees and officers. This does not prevent the purchase by the officers of the Senate and House of Representatives of stationery and blank books necessary for sale to Senators and Members in the stationery rooms of the two Houses as provided by law.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/82/1254); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 146 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 2](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s2), [28 Stat. 601](/us/stat/28/601); [Mar. 1, 1907, ch. 2284, § 1](/us/act/1907-03-01/ch2284/s1), [34 Stat. 1013](/us/stat/34/1013)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235) substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Stationery room of House of Representatives redesignated Office Supply Service.

#### Transfer of Functions

Certain functions of Officers of House of Representatives transferred to Director of Non-legislative and Financial Services by section 7 of House Resolution No. 423, One Hundred Second Congress, Apr. 9, 1992. Director of Non-legislative and Financial Services replaced by Chief Administrative Officer of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995.
