---
title: "§ 10426. National training center for prison drug rehabilitation program personnel"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10426"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10426"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6292](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6292), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4369](/us/stat/102/4369).)"
---
# § 10426. National training center for prison drug rehabilitation program personnel

##### § 10426. National training center for prison drug rehabilitation program personnel

(a) In general The Director of the National Institute of Corrections, in consultation with persons with expertise in the field of community-based drug rehabilitation, shall establish and operate, at any suitable location, a national training center (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “center”) for training Federal, State, and local prison or jail officials to conduct drug rehabilitation programs for criminals convicted of drug-related crimes and for drug-dependent criminals. Programs conducted at the center shall include training for correctional officers, administrative staff, and correctional mental health professionals (including subcontracting agency personnel).

(b) Design and construction of facilities The Director of the National Institute of Corrections shall design and construct facilities for the center.

(c) Authorization of appropriations In addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated with respect to the National Institute of Corrections, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Director of the National Institute of Corrections—

(1) for establishment and operation of the center, for curriculum development for the center, and for salaries and expenses of personnel at the center, not more than $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1989, 1990, and 1991; and

(2) for design and construction of facilities for the center, not more than $10,000,000 for fiscal years 1989, 1990, and 1991.

*([Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6292](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6292), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4369](/us/stat/102/4369).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 4352 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s4352), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification as this section.
