---
title: "§ 3114. Preference for subsistence uses"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3114"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3114"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–487, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/96/487/tVIII/s804), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2423](/us/stat/94/2423); [Pub. L. 105–83, title III, § 316(b)(5)](/us/pl/105/83/tIII/s316/b/5), (d), Nov. 14, 1997, [111 Stat. 1593](/us/stat/111/1593), 1595.)"
---
# § 3114. Preference for subsistence uses

##### § 3114. Preference for subsistence uses

(1) customary and direct dependence upon the populations as the mainstay of livelihood;

(2) local residency; and

(3) the availability of alternative resources.

*([Pub. L. 96–487, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/96/487/tVIII/s804), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2423](/us/stat/94/2423); [Pub. L. 105–83, title III, § 316(b)(5)](/us/pl/105/83/tIII/s316/b/5), (d), Nov. 14, 1997, [111 Stat. 1593](/us/stat/111/1593), 1595.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 96–487](/us/pl/96/487), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2371](/us/stat/94/2371), known as the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3101) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1997—[Pub. L. 105–83, § 316(b)(5)](/us/pl/105/83/s316/b/5), which directed the designation of existing provisions as subsec. (a) and the addition of subsec. (b) reading as follows: “The priority granted by this section is for a reasonable opportunity to take fish and wildlife. For the purposes of this subsection, the term ‘reasonable opportunity’ means an opportunity, consistent with customary and traditional uses (as defined in [section 3113(3) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3113/3)), to participate in a subsistence hunt or fishery with a reasonable expectation of success, and does not mean a guarantee that fish and wildlife will be taken.” was repealed by [Pub. L. 105–83, § 316(d)](/us/pl/105/83/s316/d). See Effective and Termination Dates of 1997 Amendment note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 1997 Amendment

Until laws are adopted in Alaska which provide for definition, preference, and participation specified in sections 3113 to 3115 of this title, amendment by [Pub. L. 105–83](/us/pl/105/83) was effective only for purpose of determining whether State’s laws provide for such definition, preference, and participation, and such amendment was repealed on Dec. 1, 1998, because such laws had not been adopted, see [section 316(d) of Pub. L. 105–83](/us/pl/105/83/s316/d) set out as a note under [section 3102 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3102).
