---
title: "§ 1715z–19. Equity skimming penalty"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1715z–19"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1715z–19"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), title II, § 254, as added [Pub. L. 100–242, title IV, § 416(b)](/us/pl/100/242/tIV/s416/b), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1908](/us/stat/101/1908); amended [Pub. L. 105–65, title V, § 552](/us/pl/105/65/tV/s552), Oct. 27, 1997, [111 Stat. 1412](/us/stat/111/1412).)"
---
# § 1715z–19. Equity skimming penalty

##### § 1715z–19. Equity skimming penalty

(a) In general Whoever, as an owner, agent, or manager, or who is otherwise in custody, control, or possession of a multifamily project or a 1- to 4-family residence that is security for a mortgage note that is described in subsection (b), willfully uses or authorizes the use of any part of the rents, assets, proceeds, income, or other funds derived from property covered by that mortgage note for any purpose other than to meet reasonable and necessary expenses that include expenses approved by the Secretary if such approval is required, in a period during which the mortgage note is in default or the project is in a nonsurplus cash position, as defined by the regulatory agreement covering the property, or the mortgagor has failed to comply with the provisions of such other form of regulatory control imposed by the Secretary, shall be fined not more than $500,000, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.

(b) Mortgage notes described For purposes of subsection (a), a mortgage note is described in this subsection if it—

(1) is insured, acquired, or held by the Secretary pursuant to this chapter;

(2) is made pursuant to [section 1701q of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701q) (including property still subject to section 1701q program requirements that existed before November 28, 1990); or

(3) is insured or held pursuant to [section 1715z–22 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1715z–22), but is not reinsured under [section 1715z–22 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1715z–22).

*([June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), title II, § 254, as added [Pub. L. 100–242, title IV, § 416(b)](/us/pl/100/242/tIV/s416/b), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1908](/us/stat/101/1908); amended [Pub. L. 105–65, title V, § 552](/us/pl/105/65/tV/s552), Oct. 27, 1997, [111 Stat. 1412](/us/stat/111/1412).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1997—[Pub. L. 105–65](/us/pl/105/65) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “Whoever, as an owner, agent, or manager, or who is otherwise in custody, control, or possession of property that is security for a mortgage note that is insured, acquired, or held by the Secretary pursuant to section 1709, 1713, 1715e, 1715k, 1715*l*(d)(3), 1715*l*(d)(4), 1715n(f), 1715v, 1715w, 1715y, 1715z–1, 1715z–3(c), 1715z–6, 1715z–7, 1715z–9, 1743, or 1748h–2 of this title, or subchapter IX–B of this chapter, or is made pursuant to [section 1701q of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701q), willfully uses or authorizes the use of any part of the rents, assets, proceeds, income or other funds derived from property covered by such mortgage note during a period when the mortgage note is in default or the project is in a nonsurplus cash position as defined by the regulatory agreement covering such property, for any purpose other than to meet actual or necessary expenses that include expenses approved by the Secretary if such approval is required under the terms of the regulatory agreement, shall be fined not more than $250,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.”
