---
title: "§ 3031. Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3031"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3031"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 103F, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1011(a)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1011/a), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3660](/us/stat/118/3660); amended [Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title IV, § 401(e)(1)](/us/pl/115/31/dN/tIV/s401/e/1), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 819](/us/stat/131/819).)"
---
# § 3031. Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center

##### § 3031. Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center

(a) Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center The Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center appointed under section 902 of the Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 2002 ([50 U.S.C. 3382](/us/usc/t50/s3382)) is a component of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

(b) Duties The Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center shall perform the duties provided in the Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 2002 and such other duties as may be prescribed by the Director of National Intelligence or specified by law.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 103F, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1011(a)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1011/a), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3660](/us/stat/118/3660); amended [Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title IV, § 401(e)(1)](/us/pl/115/31/dN/tIV/s401/e/1), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 819](/us/stat/131/819).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 2002, referred to in subsec. (b), is title IX of [Pub. L. 107–306](/us/pl/107/306), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2432](/us/stat/116/2432). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403–3f of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403–3f) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

[Pub. L. 115–31, § 401(e)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/31/s401/e/1/A), substituted “Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center” for “National Counterintelligence Executive” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–31, § 401(e)(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/31/s401/e/1/B), substituted “Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center” for “National Counterintelligence Executive” in heading and “Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center appointed under section 902 of the Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 2002 ([50 U.S.C. 3382](/us/usc/t50/s3382))” for “National Counterintelligence Executive under section 902 of the Counterintelligence Enhancement Act of 2002” in text.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–31, § 401(e)(1)(C)](/us/pl/115/31/s401/e/1/C), substituted “Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center” for “National Counterintelligence Executive”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For Determination by President that section take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Section effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
