---
title: "§ 12651j. Assignment to State Commissions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12651j"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12651j"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 196B](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s196B), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1708](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1708), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1548](/us/stat/123/1548).)"
---
# § 12651j. Assignment to State Commissions

##### § 12651j. Assignment to State Commissions

(a) Assignment In accordance with [section 12651d(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12651d/c/1), the Chief Executive Officer may assign to State Commissions specific programmatic functions upon a determination that such an assignment will increase efficiency in the operation or oversight of a program under the national service laws. In carrying out this section, and before executing any assignment of authority, the Corporation shall seek input from and consult Corporation employees, State Commissions, State educational agencies, and other interested stakeholders.

(b) Report Not later than 2 years after the effective date of the Serve America Act, the Corporation shall submit a report to the authorizing committees describing the consultation process described in subsection (a), including the stakeholders consulted, the recommendation of stakeholders, and any actions taken by the Corporation under this section.

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 196B](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s196B), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1708](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1708), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1548](/us/stat/123/1548).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For the effective date of the Serve America Act, referred to in subsec. (b), as Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).
