---
title: "§ 300c–13. Continuing activities related to stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death and sudden unexplained death in childhood"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300c–13"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300c–13"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–236, § 2](/us/pl/113/236/s2), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2831](/us/stat/128/2831).)"
---
# § 300c–13. Continuing activities related to stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death and sudden unexplained death in childhood

##### § 300c–13. Continuing activities related to stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death and sudden unexplained death in childhood

(a) In general The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall continue activities related to still birth, sudden unexpected infant death, and sudden unexplained death in childhood, including, as appropriate—

(1) collecting information, such as socio-demographic, death scene investigation, clinical history, and autopsy information, on stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death, and sudden unexplained death in childhood through the utilization of existing surveillance systems and collaborating with States to improve the quality, consistency, and collection of such data;

(2) disseminating information to educate the public, health care providers, and other stakeholders on stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death and sudden unexplained death in childhood; and

(3) collaborating with the Attorney General, State and local departments of health, and other experts, as appropriate, to provide consistent information for medical examiners and coroners, law enforcement personnel, and health care providers related to death scene investigations and autopsies for sudden unexpected infant death and sudden unexplained death in childhood, in order to improve the quality and consistency of the data collected at such death scenes and to promote consistent reporting on the cause of death after autopsy to inform prevention, intervention, and other activities.

(b) Report to Congress Not later than 2 years after December 18, 2014, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress a report that includes a description of any activities that are being carried out by agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, related to stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death, and sudden unexplained death in childhood, including those activities identified under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 113–236, § 2](/us/pl/113/236/s2), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2831](/us/stat/128/2831).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Sudden Unexpected Death Data Enhancement and Awareness Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
