---
title: "§ 6371a. Guidelines"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6371a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6371a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 392](/us/pl/94/163/tIII/s392), as added [Pub. L. 95–619, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/95/619/tIII/s302/a), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3242](/us/stat/92/3242).)"
---
# § 6371a. Guidelines

##### § 6371a. Guidelines

(a) Energy audits The Secretary shall, by rule, not later than 60 days after November 9, 1978—

(1) prescribe guidelines for the conduct of preliminary energy audits, including a description of the type, number, and distribution of preliminary energy audits of school and hospital facilities that will provide a reasonably accurate evaluation of the energy conservation needs of all such facilities in each State, and

(2) prescribe guidelines for the conduct of energy audits.

(b) State plans for implementation of energy conservation projects in schools and hospitals The Secretary shall, by rule, not later than 90 days after November 9, 1978, prescribe guidelines for State plans for the implementation of energy conservation projects in schools and hospitals. The guidelines shall include—

(1) a description of the factors which the State energy agency may consider in determining which energy conservation projects will be given priority in making grants pursuant to this part, including such factors as cost, energy consumption, energy savings, and energy conservation goals,

(2) a description of the suggested criteria to be used in establishing a State program to identify persons qualified to implement energy conservation projects, and

(3) a description of the types of energy conservation measures deemed appropriate for each region of the Nation.

(c) Revisions Guidelines prescribed under this section may be revised from time to time after notice and opportunity for comment.

(d) Determination of severe hardship class for schools and hospitals The Secretary shall, by rule prescribe criteria for determining schools and hospitals which are in a class of severe hardship. Such criteria shall take into account climate, fuel costs, fuel availability, ability to provide the non-Federal share of the costs, and such other factors that he deems appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 392](/us/pl/94/163/tIII/s392), as added [Pub. L. 95–619, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/95/619/tIII/s302/a), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3242](/us/stat/92/3242).)*
