---
title: "§ 4585. Rules of procedure for panels and committees"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4585"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4585"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title IV, § 415](/us/pl/116/113/tIV/s415), formerly [Pub. L. 103–182, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/103/182/tIV/s405), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2137](/us/stat/107/2137); renumbered [§ 415 of Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113/s415) and amended [Pub. L. 116–113, title V, § 504(f)](/us/pl/116/113/tV/s504/f), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 75](/us/stat/134/75).)"
---
# § 4585. Rules of procedure for panels and committees

##### § 4585. Rules of procedure for panels and committees

(a) Rules of procedure for binational panels The administering authority shall prescribe rules, negotiated in accordance with paragraph 14 of article 10.12, governing, with respect to binational panel reviews—

(1) requests for such reviews, complaints, other pleadings, and other papers;

(2) the amendment, filing, and service of such pleadings and papers;

(3) the joinder, suspension, and termination of such reviews; and

(4) other appropriate procedural matters.

(b) Rules of procedure for extraordinary challenge committees The administering authority shall prescribe rules, negotiated in accordance with paragraph 2 of Annex 10–B.3, governing the procedures for reviews by extraordinary challenge committees.

(c) Rules of procedure for safeguarding panel review system The administering authority shall prescribe rules, negotiated in accordance with Annex 10–B.4, governing the procedures for special committees described in such Annex.

(d) Publication of rules The rules prescribed under subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be published in the Federal Register.

(e) Administering authority As used in this section, the term “administering authority” has the meaning given such term in [section 1677(1) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1677/1).

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title IV, § 415](/us/pl/116/113/tIV/s415), formerly [Pub. L. 103–182, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/103/182/tIV/s405), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2137](/us/stat/107/2137); renumbered [§ 415 of Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113/s415) and amended [Pub. L. 116–113, title V, § 504(f)](/us/pl/116/113/tV/s504/f), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 75](/us/stat/134/75).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3435 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3435) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113).

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–113, § 504(f)(3)(A)](/us/pl/116/113/s504/f/3/A), substituted “article 10.12” for “article 1904” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–113, § 504(f)(3)(B)](/us/pl/116/113/s504/f/3/B), substituted “Annex 10–B.3” for “Annex 1904.13”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–113, § 504(f)(3)(C)](/us/pl/116/113/s504/f/3/C), substituted “Annex 10–B.4” for “Annex 1905.6”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2020 Amendment

Transfer to and amendment of this section by [Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113) effective on the date on which the USMCA enters into force (July 1, 2020), but not applicable to certain determinations under [section 1516a of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1516a) or binational panel reviews under NAFTA, see [section 504(k) of Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113/s504/k), set out as a note under [section 4581 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4581).
