---
title: "§ 4263. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S4263"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section4263"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–96, § 4](/us/pl/105/96/s4), Nov. 19, 1997, [111 Stat. 2151](/us/stat/111/2151); [Pub. L. 107–141, § 5(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/141/s5/a/1), Feb. 12, 2002, [116 Stat. 14](/us/stat/116/14).)"
---
# § 4263. Definitions

##### § 4263. Definitions

(1) The term “CITES” means the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, signed on March 3, 1973, and its appendices.

(2) The term “conservation” means the use of methods and procedures necessary to bring Asian elephants to the point at which there are sufficient populations in the wild to ensure that the species does not become extinct, including all activities associated with scientific resource management, such as conservation, protection, restoration, acquisition, and management of habitat; research and monitoring of known populations; assistance in the development of management plans for managed elephant ranges; CITES enforcement; law enforcement through community participation; translocation of elephants; conflict resolution initiatives; and community outreach and education.

(3) The term “Fund” means the account established by division A, section 101(e), title I of [Public Law 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) under the heading “multinational species conservation fund” [[16 U.S.C. 4246](/us/usc/t16/s4246)].

(4) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(5) The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Agency for International Development.

*([Pub. L. 105–96, § 4](/us/pl/105/96/s4), Nov. 19, 1997, [111 Stat. 2151](/us/stat/111/2151); [Pub. L. 107–141, § 5(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/141/s5/a/1), Feb. 12, 2002, [116 Stat. 14](/us/stat/116/14).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Division A, section 101(e), title I of [Public Law 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), referred to in par. (3), is [Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(e) [title I]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/e/tI), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–231](/us/stat/112/2681-231), 2681–232. Provisions under the heading “multinational species conservation fund” in [Pub. L. 105–277, § 101(e) [title I]](/us/pl/105/277/s101/e/tI) appear at [112 Stat. 2681–237](/us/stat/112/2681-237) and are classified in part to [section 4246 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s4246).

#### Amendments

2002—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 107–141](/us/pl/107/141) substituted “the account established by division A, section 101(e), title I of [Public Law 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) under the heading ‘multinational species conservation fund’ ” for “the Asian Elephant Conservation Fund established under [section 4265(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s4265/a)”.
