---
title: "§ 7908a. Military recruiter access to secondary school campuses"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7908a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7908a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8528A](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8528A), as added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 533(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s533/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/138/1887).)"
---
# § 7908a. Military recruiter access to secondary school campuses

##### § 7908a. Military recruiter access to secondary school campuses

Each local educational agency receiving assistance under this chapter shall provide military recruiters the same access to the campus of each secondary school served by the local educational agency for the purpose of recruiting students who are at least 17 years of age that is provided to any prospective employer, institution of higher education, or other recruiter.

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8528A](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8528A), as added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 533(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s533/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/138/1887).)*

#### Delayed Effective Date of Section

Section effective one year after Dec. 23, 2024, see Effective Date note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 533(b)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s533/b), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/138/1887), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall take effect one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2024].”

#### Compliance Monitoring and Reporting

[Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 533(c)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s533/c), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/138/1887), provided that: “On an annual basis, the Secretary of Defense shall— “(1) collect information from military recruiters regarding the compliance of local educational agencies with the requirements of section 8528A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [[20 U.S.C. 7908a](/us/usc/t20/s7908a)] (as added by subsection (a)); and “(2) based on such information, prepare and submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report that—“(A) identifies each local educational agency that the Secretary determines to be in violation of such section; and “(B) explains the reasons for such determination.”
