---
title: "§ 1607. Intelligence Senior Level positions"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1607"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1607"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, § 1632(b)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVI/s1632/b), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2747](/us/stat/110/2747); amended [Pub. L. 107–306, title V, § 503](/us/pl/107/306/tV/s503), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2407](/us/stat/116/2407).)"
---
# § 1607. Intelligence Senior Level positions

##### § 1607. Intelligence Senior Level positions

(a) Designation of Positions.— The Secretary of Defense may designate as an Intelligence Senior Level position any defense intelligence position that, as determined by the Secretary—

(1) is classifiable above grade GS–15 of the General Schedule;

(2) does not satisfy functional or program management criteria for being designated a Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service position; and

(3) has no more than minimal supervisory responsibilities.

(b) Regulations.— Subsection (a) shall be carried out in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.

(c) Award of Rank to Employees in Intelligence Senior Level Positions.— The President, based on the recommendations of the Secretary of Defense, may award a rank referred to in [section 4507a of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s4507a) to employees in Intelligence Senior Level positions designated under subsection (a). The award of such rank shall be made in a manner consistent with the provisions of that section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, § 1632(b)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVI/s1632/b), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2747](/us/stat/110/2747); amended [Pub. L. 107–306, title V, § 503](/us/pl/107/306/tV/s503), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2407](/us/stat/116/2407).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Grade GS–15 of the General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1607 was renumbered [section 424 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s424).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 1604(f)(1), (3) of this title prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 104–201, § 1632(a)(3)](/us/pl/104/201/s1632/a/3).

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–306](/us/pl/107/306) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 1635 of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s1635), set out as an Effective Date of 1996 Amendment note under [section 1593 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1593).
