---
title: "§ 2734b. Report on diversity recruitment, employment, retention, and promotion"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2734b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2734b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–323, title IV, § 410](/us/pl/114/323/tIV/s410), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1931](/us/stat/130/1931).)"
---
# § 2734b. Report on diversity recruitment, employment, retention, and promotion

##### § 2734b. Report on diversity recruitment, employment, retention, and promotion

(a) In general The Secretary should provide oversight to the employment, retention, and promotion of traditionally underrepresented minority groups.

(b) Additional recruitment and outreach required The Department should conduct recruitment activities that—

(1) develop and implement effective mechanisms to ensure that the Department is able effectively to recruit and retain highly qualified candidates from a wide diversity of institutions; and

(2) improve and expand recruitment and outreach programs at minority-serving institutions.

(c) Report Not later than 180 days after December 16, 2016, and quadrennially thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a comprehensive report that describes the efforts, consistent with existing law, including procedures, effects, and results of the Department since the period covered by the prior such report, to promote equal opportunity and inclusion for all American employees in direct hire and personal service contractors status, particularly employees of the Foreign Service, including equal opportunity for all traditionally underrepresented minority groups.

*([Pub. L. 114–323, title IV, § 410](/us/pl/114/323/tIV/s410), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1931](/us/stat/130/1931).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary”, “Department”, and “Foreign Service” as used in this section, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 114–323](/us/pl/114/323/s2), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
