---
title: "§ 1704. Broadband Deployment Locations Map"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1704"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1704"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title I, § 60105](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tI/s60105), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1206](/us/stat/135/1206).)"
---
# § 1704. Broadband Deployment Locations Map

##### § 1704. Broadband Deployment Locations Map

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Broadband infrastructure The term “broadband infrastructure” means any cables, fiber optics, wiring, or other permanent (integral to the structure) infrastructure, including wireless infrastructure, that—

(A) is capable of providing access to internet connections in individual locations; and

(B) is an advanced telecommunications capability, as defined in [section 1302(d) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1302/d).

(2) Commission The term “Commission” means the Federal Communications Commission.

(3) Deployment Locations Map The term “Deployment Locations Map” means the mapping tool required to be established under subsection (b).

(b) Establishment of Deployment Locations Map Not later than 18 months after November 15, 2021, the Commission shall, in consultation with all relevant Federal agencies, establish an online mapping tool to provide a locations overview of the overall geographic footprint of each broadband infrastructure deployment project funded by the Federal Government.

(c) Requirements The Deployment Locations Map shall be—

(1) the centralized, authoritative source of information on funding made available by the Federal Government for broadband infrastructure deployment in the United States; and

(2) made publicly available on the website of the Commission.

(d) Functions In establishing the Deployment Locations Map, the Commission shall ensure that the Deployment Locations Map—

(1) compiles data related to Federal funding for broadband infrastructure deployment provided by the Commission, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Institute of Museum and Library Sciences, and any other Federal agency that provides such data relating to broadband infrastructure deployment funding to the Commission, including funding under—

(A) this Act;

(B) the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ([Public Law 116–136](/us/pl/116/136));

(C) the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 ([Public Law 116–260](/us/pl/116/260));

(D) American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 ([Public Law 117–2](/us/pl/117/2)); or

(E) any Federal amounts appropriated or any Federal program authorized after November 15, 2021, to fund broadband infrastructure deployment;

(2) contains data, with respect to each broadband infrastructure deployment program, relating to—

(A) the Federal agency of jurisdiction;

(B) the program title; and

(C) the network type, including wired, terrestrial fixed, wireless, mobile, and satellite broadband infrastructure deployment;

(3) allows users to manipulate the Deployment Locations Map to identify, search, and filter broadband infrastructure deployment projects by—

(A) company name;

(B) duration timeline, including the dates of a project’s beginning and ending, or anticipated beginning or ending date;

(C) total number of locations to which a project makes service available; and

(D) relevant download and upload speeds; and

(4) incorporates broadband service availability data as depicted in the Broadband Map created under [section 642(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/c/1).

(e) Periodic updates

(1) In general The Commission shall, in consultation with relevant Federal agencies, ensure the Deployment Locations Map is maintained and up to date on a periodic basis, but not less frequently than once every 180 days.

(2) Other Federal agencies Each Federal agency providing funding for broadband infrastructure deployment shall report relevant data to the Commission on a periodic basis.

(f) No effect on programmatic missions Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the programmatic missions of Federal agencies providing funding for broadband infrastructure development.

(g) Nonduplication The requirements in this section shall be consistent with and avoid duplication with the provisions of section 903 of division FF of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 ([Public Law 116–260](/us/pl/116/260)) [[47 U.S.C. 1307](/us/usc/t47/s1307)].

(h) Funding Of the amounts appropriated to carry out this division under this Act, $10,000,000 shall be made available to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title I, § 60105](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tI/s60105), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1206](/us/stat/135/1206).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsecs. (d)(1)(A) and (h), means div. F of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1182](/us/stat/135/1182), see Definitions note set out below. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(1)(B), also known as the CARES Act, is [Pub. L. 116–136](/us/pl/116/136), Mar. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 281](/us/stat/134/281), which enacted chapter 116 (§ 9001 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade, and enacted, amended, and repealed numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9001 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s9001) and Tables.

The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, referred to in subsec. (d)(1)(C), is [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 1182](/us/stat/134/1182). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, referred to in subsec. (d)(1)(D), is [Pub. L. 117–2](/us/pl/117/2), Mar. 11, 2021, [135 Stat. 4](/us/stat/135/4). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2021 Amendment note set out under [section 9001 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s9001), Commerce and Trade, and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “this Act” as used in this section, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58/s2), set out as a note under [section 1 of Title 1](/us/usc/t1/s1), General Provisions.
