---
title: "§ 302908. Grants to the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau"
identifier: "USC-T54-S302908"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section302908"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3205](/us/stat/128/3205).)"
---
# § 302908. Grants to the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau

##### § 302908. Grants to the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau

(a) In General.— As part of the program of matching grant assistance from the Historic Preservation Fund to States, the Secretary shall administer a program of direct grants to the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau in furtherance of the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, approved by the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 ([48 U.S.C. 1901](/us/usc/t48/s1901) et seq., 2001 et seq.), and the Compact of Free Association between the United States and Palau, approved by the Joint Resolution entitled “Joint Resolution to approve the ‘Compact of Free Association’ between the United States and Government 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. of Palau, and for other purposes” ([48 U.S.C. 1931](/us/usc/t48/s1931) et seq.) or any successor enactment.

(b) Goal of Program.— The goal of the program shall be to establish historic and cultural preservation programs that meet the unique needs of each of those nations so that at the termination of the compacts the programs shall be firmly established.

(c) Basis of Allocating Amounts.— The amounts to be made available under this subsection shall be allocated by the Secretary on the basis of needs as determined by the Secretary.

(d) Waivers and Modifications.— The Secretary may waive or modify the requirements of this subdivision to conform to the cultural setting of those nations. Matching funds may be waived or modified.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3205](/us/stat/128/3205).)*

In subsection (a), the words “the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and upon termination of the Trusteeship Agreement for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands” are omitted as obsolete. See note at 48 U.S.C. prec. 1681. For continued application of certain laws of the United States in certain cases, see the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America ([48 U.S.C. 1801](/us/usc/t48/s1801) note), the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States of America and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia ([48 U.S.C. 1901](/us/usc/t48/s1901) note), and the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Palau ([48 U.S.C. 1931](/us/usc/t48/s1931) note). The words “or any successor enactment” are added for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 302908 | 16 U.S.C. 470a(e)(6). | Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(e)(6), as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4007(2), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4758. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Compact of Free Association Act of 1985, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 99–239](/us/pl/99/239), Jan. 14, 1986, [99 Stat. 1770](/us/stat/99/1770), which is classified principally to part A of subchapter I (§ 1901 et seq.) of chapter 18 and chapter 19 (§ 2001 et seq.) of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1901 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1901) and Tables.

The Joint Resolution entitled “Joint Resolution to approve the ‘Compact of Free Association’ between the United States and the Government of Palau, and for other purposes”, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 99–658](/us/pl/99/658), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3672](/us/stat/100/3672), which is classified generally to part A (§ 1931 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 18 of Title 48. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
