---
title: "§ 3058. National Intelligence Centers"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3058"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3058"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 119B, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1023](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1023), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3676](/us/stat/118/3676).)"
---
# § 3058. National Intelligence Centers

##### § 3058. National Intelligence Centers

(a) Authority to establish The Director of National Intelligence may establish one or more national intelligence centers to address intelligence priorities, including, but not limited to, regional issues.

(b) Resources of directors of centers

(1) The Director of National Intelligence shall ensure that the head of each national intelligence center under subsection (a) has appropriate authority, direction, and control of such center, and of the personnel assigned to such center, to carry out the assigned mission of such center.

(2) The Director of National Intelligence shall ensure that each national intelligence center has appropriate personnel to accomplish effectively the mission of such center.

(c) Information sharing The Director of National Intelligence shall, to the extent appropriate and practicable, ensure that each national intelligence center under subsection (a) and the other elements of the intelligence community share information in order to facilitate the mission of such center.

(d) Mission of centers Pursuant to the direction of the Director of National Intelligence, each national intelligence center under subsection (a) may, in the area of intelligence responsibility assigned to such center—

(1) have primary responsibility for providing all-source analysis of intelligence based upon intelligence gathered both domestically and abroad;

(2) have primary responsibility for identifying and proposing to the Director of National Intelligence intelligence collection and analysis and production requirements; and

(3) perform such other duties as the Director of National Intelligence shall specify.

(e) Review and modification of centers The Director of National Intelligence shall determine on a regular basis whether—

(1) the area of intelligence responsibility assigned to each national intelligence center under subsection (a) continues to meet appropriate intelligence priorities; and

(2) the staffing and management of such center remains appropriate for the accomplishment of the mission of such center.

(f) Termination The Director of National Intelligence may terminate any national intelligence center under subsection (a).

(g) Separate budget account The Director of National Intelligence shall, as appropriate, include in the National Intelligence Program budget a separate line item for each national intelligence center under subsection (a).

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 119B, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1023](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1023), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3676](/us/stat/118/3676).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 404*o*–2 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For Determination by President that section take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Section effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
