---
title: "§ 6503. Commission for the Judiciary Office Building"
identifier: "USC-T40-S6503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section6503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/116/1189).)"
---
# § 6503. Commission for the Judiciary Office Building

##### § 6503. Commission for the Judiciary Office Building

(a) Establishment and Membership.— There is a Commission for the Judiciary Office Building, composed of the following 13 members or their designees:

(1) Two individuals appointed by the Chief Justice from among justices of the Supreme Court and other judges of the United States.

(2) The members of the House Office Building Commission.

(3) The majority leader and minority leader of the Senate.

(4) The Chairman and the ranking minority member of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration.

(5) The Chairman and the ranking minority member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works.

(6) The Chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

(b) Quorum.— Seven members of the Commission is a quorum.

(c) Duties.— The Commission is responsible for the supervision of the design, construction, operation, maintenance, structural, mechanical, and domestic care, and security of the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building. The Commission shall prescribe regulations to govern the actions of the Architect of the Capitol under this chapter and to govern the use and occupancy of all space in the Building.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/116/1189).)*

In subsection (a)(6), the words “Transportation and Infrastructure” are substituted for “Public Works and Transportation” in section 7(b) of the Judiciary Office Building Development Act ([Public Law 100–480](/us/pl/100/480), [102 Stat. 2334](/us/stat/102/2334)) because of [section 1(a)(9) of the Act of June 3, 1995](/us/act/1995-06-03/s1/a/9) ([Public Law 104–14](/us/pl/104/14), 2:21 note prec.).

In subsection (c), the words “from time to time” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6503(a) | 40:1206(a), (b). | Pub. L. 100–480, § 7, Oct. 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 2334. |
| 6503(b) | 40:1206(d). |  |
| 6503(c) | 40:1206(c). |  |
