---
title: "§ 8002. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8002"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8002"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXV, § 3533](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXV/s3533), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1999](/us/stat/133/1999).)"
---
# § 8002. Purposes

##### § 8002. Purposes

(1) to support a whole-of-government approach across the Federal Government to counter IUU fishing and related threats to maritime security;

(2) to improve data sharing that enhances surveillance, enforcement, and prosecution against IUU fishing and related activities at a global level;

(3) to support coordination and collaboration to counter IUU fishing within priority regions;

(4) to increase and improve global transparency and traceability across the seafood supply chain as—

(A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and

(B) a tool for strengthening fisheries management and food security;

(5) to improve global enforcement operations against IUU fishing through a whole-of-government approach by the United States; and

(6) to prevent the use of IUU fishing as a financing source for transnational organized groups that undermine United States and global security interests.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXV, § 3533](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXV/s3533), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1999](/us/stat/133/1999).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle C of title XXXV of div. C of [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1997](/us/stat/133/1997), known as the Maritime Security and Fisheries Enforcement Act and also as the Maritime SAFE Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 8001 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8001) and Tables.
