---
title: "§ 460l–34. Protection of authorized purposes of reclamation projects"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460l–34"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460l–34"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–575, title XXVIII, § 2806](/us/pl/102/575/tXXVIII/s2806), Oct. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 4693](/us/stat/106/4693).)"
---
# § 460l–34. Protection of authorized purposes of reclamation projects

##### § 460l–34. Protection of authorized purposes of reclamation projects

(a) Nothing in this part shall be construed to change, modify, or expand the authorized purposes of any Reclamation project.

(b) The expansion or modification of a recreational facility constructed under this part shall not increase the capital repayment responsibilities or operation and maintenance expenses of the beneficiaries of authorized purposes of the associated Reclamation project. The term “beneficiaries” does not include those entities who sign agreements or enter into contracts for recreation facilities pursuant to the Federal Water Project Recreation Act [[16 U.S.C. 460](/us/usc/t16/s460)*l*–12 et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 102–575, title XXVIII, § 2806](/us/pl/102/575/tXXVIII/s2806), Oct. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 4693](/us/stat/106/4693).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title XXVIII of [Pub. L. 102–575](/us/pl/102/575), Oct. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 4690](/us/stat/106/4690), which enacted sections 460*l*–31 to 460*l*–34 of this title and amended sections 460*l*–13 to 460*l*–15 and 460*l*–18 of this title.

The Federal Water Project Recreation Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 89–72](/us/pl/89/72), July 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 213](/us/stat/79/213), which is classified principally to part C (§ 460*l*–12 et seq.) of this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 460*l*–12 of this title and Tables.
