---
title: "§ 6326. Absence in connection with funerals of immediate relatives in the Armed Forces"
identifier: "USC-T5-S6326"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section6326"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–588, § 1(a)](/us/pl/90/588/s1/a), Oct. 17, 1968, [82 Stat. 1151](/us/stat/82/1151); amended [Pub. L. 95–454, title IX, § 906(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/454/tIX/s906/a/2), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/92/1224).)"
---
# § 6326. Absence in connection with funerals of immediate relatives in the Armed Forces

##### § 6326. Absence in connection with funerals of immediate relatives in the Armed Forces

(a) An employee of an executive agency or an individual employed by the government of the District of Columbia is entitled to not more than three days of leave without loss of, or reduction in, pay, leave to which he is otherwise entitled, credit for time or service, or performance or efficiency rating, to make arrangements for, or attend the funeral of, or memorial service for, an immediate relative who died as a result of wounds, disease, or injury incurred while serving as a member of the Armed Forces in a combat zone (as determined by the President in accordance with section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code).

(b) The Office of Personnel Management is authorized to issue regulations for the administration of this section.

(c) This section shall not be considered as affecting the authority of an Executive agency, except to the extent and under the conditions covered under this section, to grant administrative leave excusing an employee from work when it is in the public interest.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–588, § 1(a)](/us/pl/90/588/s1/a), Oct. 17, 1968, [82 Stat. 1151](/us/stat/82/1151); amended [Pub. L. 95–454, title IX, § 906(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/454/tIX/s906/a/2), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/92/1224).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code, referred to in subsec. (a), is classified to [section 112 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s112), Internal Revenue Code.

#### Amendments

1978—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) substituted “Office of Personnel Management” for “Civil Service Commission”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
