---
title: "§ 9230. Codification of sanctions with respect to North Korean activities undermining cybersecurity"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9230"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9230"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–122, title II, § 210](/us/pl/114/122/tII/s210), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 111](/us/stat/130/111).)"
---
# § 9230. Codification of sanctions with respect to North Korean activities undermining cybersecurity

##### § 9230. Codification of sanctions with respect to North Korean activities undermining cybersecurity

(a) In general United States sanctions with respect to activities of the Government of North Korea, persons acting for or on behalf of that Government, or persons located in North Korea that undermine cybersecurity provided for in Executive Order 13687 ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) note; relating to imposing additional sanctions with respect to North Korea) or Executive Order 13694 ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) note; relating to blocking the property of certain persons engaging in significant malicious cyber-enabled activities), as such Executive Orders are in effect on the day before February 18, 2016, shall remain in effect until the date that is 30 days after the date on which the President submits to Congress a certification that the Government of North Korea, persons acting for or on behalf of that Government, and persons owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by that Government or persons acting for or on behalf of that Government, are no longer engaged in the illicit activities described in such Executive Orders, including actions in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), and 2094 (2013).

(b) Rule of construction Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the President pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 114–122, title II, § 210](/us/pl/114/122/tII/s210), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 111](/us/stat/130/111).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is title II of [Pub. L. 95–223](/us/pl/95/223), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/91/1626), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s1701) and Tables.
