---
title: "§ 2851a. Supervision of military housing by Chief Housing Officer"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2851a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2851a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX, § 3012(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dB/tXXX/s3012/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1921](/us/stat/133/1921), § 2890a; renumbered § 2851a and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2811(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dB/tXXVIII/s2811/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4323](/us/stat/134/4323); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2807](/us/pl/117/263/dB/tXXVIII/s2807), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2995](/us/stat/136/2995).)"
---
# § 2851a. Supervision of military housing by Chief Housing Officer

##### § 2851a. Supervision of military housing by Chief Housing Officer

(a) In General.— The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall serve as the Chief Housing Officer, who shall oversee family housing and military unaccompanied housing under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense or acquired or constructed under subchapter IV of this chapter (in this section referred to as “covered housing units”).

(b) Principal Duties.—

(1) The Chief Housing Officer shall oversee all aspects of the provision of covered housing units, including the following:

(A) Creation and standardization of policies and processes regarding covered housing units.

(B) Oversight of the administration of any Department of Defense-wide policies regarding covered housing units, to include, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments, the housing documents developed pursuant to [section 2890 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2890) entitled Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of Rights and Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Responsibilities.

(2) The duties specified in paragraph (1) may not be further delegated.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX, § 3012(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dB/tXXX/s3012/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1921](/us/stat/133/1921), § 2890a; renumbered § 2851a and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2811(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dB/tXXVIII/s2811/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4323](/us/stat/134/4323); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2807](/us/pl/117/263/dB/tXXVIII/s2807), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2995](/us/stat/136/2995).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(1) The Secretary of Defense shall designate, from among officials of the Department of Defense who are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, a Chief Housing Officer who shall oversee family housing and military unaccompanied housing under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense or acquired or constructed under subchapter IV of this chapter (in this section referred to as ‘covered housing units’).

“(2) The official of the Department of Defense designated as Chief Housing Officer may be assigned duties in addition to the duties as Chief Housing Officer under subsection (b).”

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283, § 2811(a)(3)](/us/pl/116/283/s2811/a/3), renumbered [section 2890a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2890a) as this section.

[Pub. L. 116–283, § 2811(a)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/s2811/a/2), inserted “Supervision of military housing by” before “Chief” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 2811(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/s2811/a/1/A), substituted “family housing and military unaccompanied housing under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense or acquired or constructed under subchapter IV of this chapter (in this section referred to as ‘covered housing units’)” for “housing units”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 2811(a)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/116/283/s2811/a/1/B/ii), inserted “covered” before “housing units” in subpars. (A) and (B).

[Pub. L. 116–283, § 2811(a)(1)(B)(i)](/us/pl/116/283/s2811/a/1/B/i), substituted “covered housing units” for “housing under subchapter IV and this subchapter” in introductory provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Notification of Designation

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX, § 3012(b)](/us/pl/116/92/dB/tXXX/s3012/b), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1921](/us/stat/133/1921), provided that not later than 60 days after Dec. 20, 2019, the Secretary of Defense was to notify the Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the official of the Department of Defense designated as Chief Housing Officer under this section. As amended by [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), subsec. (a) of this section provides that the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall serve as the Chief Housing Officer.
