---
title: "§ 3304. Overseas Private Investment Corporation"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–8, § 5](/us/pl/96/8/s5), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 16](/us/stat/93/16).)"
---
# § 3304. Overseas Private Investment Corporation

##### § 3304. Overseas Private Investment Corporation

(a) Removal of per capita income restriction on Corporation activities with respect to investment projects on Taiwan During the three-year period beginning on April 10, 1979, the $1,000 per capita income restriction in clause (2) of the second undesignated paragraph of section 2191 11 See References in Text note below. of this title shall not restrict the activities of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation in determining whether to provide any insurance, reinsurance, loans, or guaranties with respect to investment projects on Taiwan.

(b) Application by Corporation of other criteria Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, in issuing insurance, reinsurance, loans, or guaranties with respect to investment projects on Taiwan, the Overseas Private Insurance 22 So in original. Probably should be “Investment”. Corporation shall apply the same criteria as those applicable in other parts of the world.

*([Pub. L. 96–8, § 5](/us/pl/96/8/s5), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 16](/us/stat/93/16).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2191 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2191), referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title VI, § 1464(2)](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tVI/s1464/2), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3513](/us/stat/132/3513).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as of January 1, 1979, see [section 18 of Pub. L. 96–8](/us/pl/96/8/s18), set out as a note under [section 3301 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3301).

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation to the United States International Development Finance Corporation and treatment of related references, see sections 9683 and 9686(d) of this title.
