---
title: "§ 16274a. University Nuclear Leadership Program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16274a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16274a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–8, div. C, title III, § 313](/us/pl/111/8/dC/tIII/s313), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 627](/us/stat/123/627); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title II, § 2003(e)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tII/s2003/e), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2465](/us/stat/134/2465); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10745(b)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10745/b), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1721](/us/stat/136/1721); [Pub. L. 118–67, div. B, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/118/67/dB/tIV/s402), July 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 1467](/us/stat/138/14"
---
# § 16274a. University Nuclear Leadership Program

##### § 16274a. University Nuclear Leadership Program

(a) In general The Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, and the Chairman of the Commission shall jointly establish a program, to be known as the “University Nuclear Leadership Program”.

(b) Use of funds

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2) and subsection (c), amounts made available to carry out the Program shall be used to provide financial assistance for scholarships, fellowships, and research and development projects at institutions of higher education in areas relevant to the programmatic mission of the applicable Federal agency, with an emphasis on providing the financial assistance with respect to research, development, demonstration, and commercial application activities relevant to civilian advanced nuclear reactors including, but not limited to—

(A) relevant fuel cycle technologies;

(B) project management; and

(C) advanced construction, manufacturing, and fabrication methods.

(2) Exception Notwithstanding paragraph (1), amounts made available to carry out the Program may be used to provide financial assistance for a scholarship, fellowship, or multiyear research and development project that does not align directly with a programmatic mission of the Department of Energy, if the activity for which assistance is provided would facilitate the maintenance of the discipline of nuclear science or engineering, which may include nontechnical nuclear research..11 So in original.

(c) Nuclear energy traineeship subprogram

(1) In general The Commission shall establish, as a subprogram of the Program, a nuclear energy traineeship subprogram under which the Commission, in coordination with institutions of higher education and trade schools, shall competitively award traineeships that provide focused training to meet critical mission needs of the Commission and nuclear workforce needs, including needs relating to the nuclear tradecraft workforce.

(2) Requirements In carrying out the nuclear energy traineeship subprogram described in paragraph (1), the Commission shall—

(A) coordinate with the Secretary of Energy to prioritize the funding of traineeships that focus on—

(i) nuclear workforce needs; and

(ii) critical mission needs of the Commission;

(B) encourage appropriate partnerships among—

(i) National Laboratories;

(ii) institutions of higher education;

(iii) trade schools;

(iv) the nuclear energy industry; and

(v) other entities, as the Commission determines to be appropriate; and

(C) on an annual basis, evaluate nuclear workforce needs for the purpose of implementing traineeships in focused topical areas that—

(i) address the workforce needs of the nuclear energy community; and

(ii) support critical mission needs of the Commission.

(d) Definitions In this section:

(1) Advanced nuclear reactor The term “advanced nuclear reactor” has the meaning given the term in [section 16271(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16271/b).

(2) Commission The term “Commission” means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

(3) 22 So in original. Another par. (3) follows par. (5). Institution of higher education The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given the term in [section 15801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801).

(4) National Laboratory The term “National Laboratory” has the meaning given the term in [section 16271(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16271/b).

(5) Program The term “Program” means the University Nuclear Leadership Program established under this section.

(3) 33 So in original. Another par. (3) follows par. (2). Nontechnical nuclear research The term “nontechnical nuclear research” means research with specializations such as social sciences or law that can support an increase in community engagement, participation, and confidence in nuclear energy systems, including the navigation of the licensing required for advanced reactor deployment, aligned with the objectives in [section 16271(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16271/a/2).

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025—

(1) $45,000,000 to the Secretary of Energy, of which $15,000,000 shall be for use by the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration; and

(2) $15,000,000 to the Commission.

*([Pub. L. 111–8, div. C, title III, § 313](/us/pl/111/8/dC/tIII/s313), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 627](/us/stat/123/627); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title II, § 2003(e)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tII/s2003/e), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2465](/us/stat/134/2465); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10745(b)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10745/b), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1721](/us/stat/136/1721); [Pub. L. 118–67, div. B, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/118/67/dB/tIV/s402), July 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 1467](/us/stat/138/1467).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2009, and also as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009, and not as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–67, § 402(1)](/us/pl/118/67/s402/1), struck out “Nuclear Regulatory” before “Commission”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 118–67, § 402(2)](/us/pl/118/67/s402/2), inserted “and subsection (c)” after “paragraph (2)” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–67, § 402(6)](/us/pl/118/67/s402/6), added subsec. (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (d).

[Pub. L. 118–67, § 402(3)](/us/pl/118/67/s402/3), added pars. (1) to (4), redesignated former par. (2) as (5), and struck out former par. (1) which defined “advanced nuclear reactor” and “institution of higher education”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 118–67, § 402(5)](/us/pl/118/67/s402/5), redesignated subsec. (c) as (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 118–67, § 402(4)](/us/pl/118/67/s402/4), struck out “Nuclear Regulatory” before “Commission”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 118–67, § 402(5)](/us/pl/118/67/s402/5), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e).

2022—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10745(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/s10745/b/1), inserted “, which may include nontechnical nuclear research.” after “engineering”.

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10745(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/167/s10745/b/2), added par. (3).

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10745(b)(3)](/us/pl/117/167/s10745/b/3), substituted “$45,000,000” for “$30,000,000”.

2020—[Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to Integrated University Program.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Purpose of 2022 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10745(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10745/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1721](/us/stat/136/1721), provided that: “The purpose of this section [amending this section] is to support a diverse workforce for the complex landscape associated with effective and equitable development of advanced nuclear energy technologies, including interdisciplinary research to enable positive impacts and avoid potential negative impacts across the lifespan of nuclear energy technologies.”
