---
title: "§ 3242. Indians committing certain offenses; acts on reservations"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3242"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3242"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 827](/us/stat/62/827); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 51](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s51), [63 Stat. 96](/us/stat/63/96); [Pub. L. 89–707, § 2](/us/pl/89/707/s2), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1101](/us/stat/80/1101); [Pub. L. 94–297, § 4](/us/pl/94/297/s4), May 29, 1976, [90 Stat. 586](/us/stat/90/586).)"
---
# § 3242. Indians committing certain offenses; acts on reservations

##### § 3242. Indians committing certain offenses; acts on reservations

All Indians committing any offense listed in the first paragraph of and punishable under section 1153 (relating to offenses committed within Indian country) of this title shall be tried in the same courts and in the same manner as are all other persons committing such offense within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 827](/us/stat/62/827); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 51](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s51), [63 Stat. 96](/us/stat/63/96); [Pub. L. 89–707, § 2](/us/pl/89/707/s2), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1101](/us/stat/80/1101); [Pub. L. 94–297, § 4](/us/pl/94/297/s4), May 29, 1976, [90 Stat. 586](/us/stat/90/586).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### 1948 Act

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 548 ([Mar. 4, 1909, ch. 321, § 328](/us/act/1909-03-04/ch321/s328), [35 Stat. 1151](/us/stat/35/1151); June 1932, ch. 284, [47 Stat. 337](/us/stat/47/337)).

The provisions defining rape in accordance with the law of the State and prescribing imprisonment at the discretion of the court for rape by an Indian upon an Indian are now included in [section 1153 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1153). (See also [section 6 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s6).)

Section 549 of said title 18, relating to crimes in Indian reservations in South Dakota, was omitted as covered by [section 1153 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1153). Accordingly the last sentence of said section 548, extending this section to prosecutions of Indians in South Dakota, was also omitted as unnecessary because this section is sufficient and applicable. Other provisions of said section 548 are incorporated in sections 1151 and 1153 of this title.

Minor changes were made in phraseology.

#### 1949 Act

This section [section 51] conforms [section 3242 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3242), U.S.C., with sections 1151 and 1153 of such title, thus eliminating inconsistency and ambiguity with respect to the definition of Indian country.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1976—[Pub. L. 94–297](/us/pl/94/297) substituted provision setting out reference to offenses listed in first paragraph of and punishable under [section 1153 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1153), for provision specifically enumerating the covered offenses.

1966—[Pub. L. 89–707](/us/pl/89/707) added carnal knowledge and assault with intent to commit rape as offenses cognizable within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States when committed on and within the Indian country.

1949—Act May 24, 1949, substituted “within the Indian country” for “within any Indian reservation, including rights-of-way running through the reservation,”.
