---
title: "§ 4002. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4002"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4002"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–53, § 3](/us/pl/109/53/s3), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 463](/us/stat/119/463).)"
---
# § 4002. Definitions

##### § 4002. Definitions

(1) Agreement The term “Agreement” means the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement approved by the Congress under [section 4011(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4011/a/1).

(2) CAFTA–DR country Except as provided in [section 4033 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4033), the term “CAFTA–DR country” means—

(A) Costa Rica, for such time as the Agreement is in force between the United States and Costa Rica;

(B) the Dominican Republic, for such time as the Agreement is in force between the United States and the Dominican Republic;

(C) El Salvador, for such time as the Agreement is in force between the United States and El Salvador;

(D) Guatemala, for such time as the Agreement is in force between the United States and Guatemala;

(E) Honduras, for such time as the Agreement is in force between the United States and Honduras; and

(F) Nicaragua, for such time as the Agreement is in force between the United States and Nicaragua.

(3) Commission The term “Commission” means the United States International Trade Commission.

(4) HTS The term “HTS” means the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.

(5) Textile or apparel good The term “textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing referred to in [section 3511(d)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3511/d/4), other than a good listed in Annex 3.29 of the Agreement.

*([Pub. L. 109–53, § 3](/us/pl/109/53/s3), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 463](/us/stat/119/463).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107/d), see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 462](/us/stat/119/462), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4001) and Tables.

The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, referred to in par. (4), is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under [section 1202 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1202).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective Aug. 2, 2005, and to cease to have effect on date Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107), set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4001).
