---
title: "§ 2702. Membership; chairman; meetings"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–509, title IV, § 1(d)(1)](/us/pl/101/509/tIV/s1/d/1), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/104/1417).)"
---
# § 2702. Membership; chairman; meetings

##### § 2702. Membership; chairman; meetings

(a)

(1) The Committee shall consist of the eleven members including—

(A)

(i) the Secretary of the Senate;

(ii) the Clerk of the House of Representatives;

(iii) the Archivist of the United States;

(iv) the Historian of the Senate; and

(v) the Historian of the House of Representatives; and

(B) six members of whom one shall be appointed by each of the following:

(i) the Speaker of the House of Representatives;

(ii) the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives;

(iii) the Majority Leader of the Senate;

(iv) the Minority Leader of the Senate;

(v) the Secretary of the Senate; and

(vi) the Clerk of the House of Representatives.

(2) Each member appointed under paragraph (1)(B) shall have knowledge or expertise in United States history, archival management, publishing, library science, or use of legislative records.

(b) The Secretary of the Senate shall serve as Chairman during the two-year period beginning on January 1, 1991, and the Clerk of the House of Representatives shall serve as Chairman during the two-year period beginning on January 1, 1993. Thereafter, such members shall alternate serving as Chairman for a term of two years.

(c)

(1) Members of the Committee referred to in subsection (a)(1)(A) shall serve only while holding such offices. Members appointed to the Committee under subsection (a)(1)(B) shall serve for a term of two years, and may be reappointed without limitation. The initial appointments for such terms shall begin on January 1, 1991.

(2) Any vacancy on the Committee shall not affect the powers of the Committee. Any vacancy in an appointed position on the Committee shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

(d)

(1) No later than thirty days after the date on which the first session of the 102d Congress begins, the Committee shall hold its first meeting. Thereafter, the Committee shall meet semiannually or at the call of a majority of its members.

(2) Seven members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may hold hearings.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–509, title IV, § 1(d)(1)](/us/pl/101/509/tIV/s1/d/1), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/104/1417).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date on which the first session of the 102d Congress begins, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is Jan. 3, 1991.
