---
title: "§ 1530. Awarding of contracts for performance of commercial activity by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1530"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1530"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–272, title VI, § 6083](/us/pl/99/272/tVI/s6083), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 135](/us/stat/100/135); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 5(b)(3)](/us/pl/103/437/s5/b/3), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4582](/us/stat/108/4582).)"
---
# § 1530. Awarding of contracts for performance of commercial activity by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

##### § 1530. Awarding of contracts for performance of commercial activity by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

(1) a comparison of the cost of such activity as performed by employees of the Administration and the cost of such activity as performed under the proposed contract;

(2) a comparison of the services performed by employees of the Administration and the services to be performed under the proposed contract; and

(3) an assessment of the benefits to the Federal Government of proceeding with the proposed contract.

*([Pub. L. 99–272, title VI, § 6083](/us/pl/99/272/tVI/s6083), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 135](/us/stat/100/135); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 5(b)(3)](/us/pl/103/437/s5/b/3), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4582](/us/stat/108/4582).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) in introductory provisions substituted “Committee on Science, Space, and Technology” for “Committee on Science and Technology” before “of the House”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries

Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives abolished and its jurisdiction transferred by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995. For treatment of references to Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, see [section 1(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/b/3), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress.
