---
title: "§ 907. Art. 107. False official statements; false swearing"
identifier: "USC-T10-S907"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section907"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 71](/us/stat/70A/71); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5419](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5419), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2946](/us/stat/130/2946).)"
---
# § 907. Art. 107. False official statements; false swearing

##### § 907. Art. 107. False official statements; false swearing

(a) False Official Statements.— Any person subject to this chapter who, with intent to deceive—

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(1) signs any false record, return, regulation, order, or other official document, knowing it to be false; or

(2) makes any other false official statement knowing it to be false;

(b) False Swearing.— Any person subject to this chapter—

if the statement is false and at the time of taking the oath, the person does not believe the statement to be true, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(1) who takes an oath that—

(A) is administered in a matter in which such oath is required or authorized by law; and

(B) is administered by a person with authority to do so; and

(2) who, upon such oath, makes or subscribes to a statement;

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 71](/us/stat/70A/71); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5419](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5419), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2946](/us/stat/130/2946).)*

The word “it” is substituted for the words “the same”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 907 | 50:701. | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 107), 64 Stat. 138. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Any person subject to this chapter who, with intent to deceive, signs any false record, return, regulation, order, or other official document, knowing it to be false, or makes any other false official statement knowing it to be false, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).
