---
title: "§ 9007. Costs and fees"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9007"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9007"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–300, § 8](/us/pl/100/300/s8), Apr. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 440](/us/stat/102/440).)"
---
# § 9007. Costs and fees

##### § 9007. Costs and fees

(a) Administrative costs No department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal Government or of any State or local government may impose on an applicant any fee in relation to the administrative processing of applications submitted under the Convention.

(b) Costs incurred in civil actions

(1) Petitioners may be required to bear the costs of legal counsel or advisors, court costs incurred in connection with their petitions, and travel costs for the return of the child involved and any accompanying persons, except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3).

(2) Subject to paragraph (3), legal fees or court costs incurred in connection with an action brought under [section 9003 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9003) shall be borne by the petitioner unless they are covered by payments from Federal, State, or local legal assistance or other programs.

(3) Any court ordering the return of a child pursuant to an action brought under [section 9003 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9003) shall order the respondent to pay necessary expenses incurred by or on behalf of the petitioner, including court costs, legal fees, foster home or other care during the course of proceedings in the action, and transportation costs related to the return of the child, unless the respondent establishes that such order would be clearly inappropriate.

*([Pub. L. 100–300, § 8](/us/pl/100/300/s8), Apr. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 440](/us/stat/102/440).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 11607 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s11607), The Public Health and Welfare.
