---
title: "§ 2603. Waste handling practices"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–688, title IV, § 4103](/us/pl/100/688/tIV/s4103), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4156](/us/stat/102/4156).)"
---
# § 2603. Waste handling practices

##### § 2603. Waste handling practices

(a) In general

(1) Loading The owner or operator of the waste source shall take all reasonable steps to assure that all municipal or commercial waste is loaded onto a vessel in a manner that assures that waste deposited in coastal waters is minimized.

(2) Securing The owner or operator of a vessel shall assure that all municipal or commercial waste loaded onto the vessel is secured by netting or other means to assure that waste will not be deposited into coastal waters during transport.

(3) Offloading The owner or operator of the receiving facility shall take all reasonable steps to assure that any municipal or commercial waste is offloaded from a vessel in a manner that assures that waste deposited into coastal waters is minimized.

(4) Cleaning up The owner or operator of any waste source or receiving facility shall provide adequate control measures to clean up any municipal or commercial waste which is deposited into coastal waters.

(b) Regulations The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall prescribe regulations—

(1) requiring that waste sources, receiving facilities, and vessels provide the means and facilities to assure that the waste will not be deposited into coastal waters during loading, offloading, and transport;

(2) requiring, as appropriate, the submission and adoption by each responsible party of an operation and maintenance manual identifying procedures to be used to prevent, report, and clean up any deposit of municipal or commercial waste into coastal waters, including record keeping requirements; and

(3) if the Administrator determines that tracking systems are required to assure adequate enforcement of laws preventing the deposit of municipal or commercial waste into coastal waters, requiring installation of the appropriate systems within 18 months after the Administrator makes that determination.

*([Pub. L. 100–688, title IV, § 4103](/us/pl/100/688/tIV/s4103), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4156](/us/stat/102/4156).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 100–688, title IV, § 4204(c)](/us/pl/100/688/tIV/s4204/c), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4160](/us/stat/102/4160), provided that: “Section 4103 of this Act [[33 U.S.C. 2603](/us/usc/t33/s2603)] takes effect 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 18, 1988].”
