---
title: "§ 10745. Transportation services or facilities furnished by shipper"
identifier: "USC-T49-S10745"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section10745"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 821](/us/stat/109/821).)"
---
# § 10745. Transportation services or facilities furnished by shipper

##### § 10745. Transportation services or facilities furnished by shipper

A rail carrier providing transportation or service subject to the jurisdiction of the Board under this part may establish a charge or allowance for transportation or service for property when the owner of the property, directly or indirectly, furnishes a service related to or an instrumentality used in the transportation or service. The Board may prescribe the maximum reasonable charge or allowance a rail carrier subject to its jurisdiction may pay for a service or instrumentality furnished under this section. The Board may begin a proceeding under this section on its own initiative or on application.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 821](/us/stat/109/821).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 10747 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s10747) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

A prior section 10745, [Pub. L. 95–473](/us/pl/95/473), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1392](/us/stat/92/1392), related to continuous carriage of freight, prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a). See [section 10744 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s10744).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
