---
title: "§ 8689. Requirements for availability of funds relating to advanced naval nuclear fuel systems based on low-enriched uranium"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8689"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8689"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–91, div. C, title XXXI, § 3115(b)(1)](/us/pl/115/91/dC/tXXXI/s3115/b/1), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1886](/us/stat/131/1886), § 7319; renumbered § 8689, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)"
---
# § 8689. Requirements for availability of funds relating to advanced naval nuclear fuel systems based on low-enriched uranium

##### § 8689. Requirements for availability of funds relating to advanced naval nuclear fuel systems based on low-enriched uranium

(a) Authorization.— Low-enriched uranium activities may only be carried out using funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of Energy for atomic energy defense activities for defense nuclear nonproliferation.

(b) Prohibition Regarding Certain Accounts.—

(1) None of the funds described in paragraph (2) may be obligated or expended to carry out low-enriched uranium activities.

(2) The funds described in this paragraph are funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for any fiscal year for any of the following accounts:

(A) Shipbuilding and conversion, Navy, or any other account of the Department of Defense.

(B) Any account within the atomic energy defense activities of the Department of Energy other than defense nuclear nonproliferation, as specified in subsection (a).

(3) The prohibition in paragraph (1) may not be superseded except by a provision of law that specifically supersedes, repeals, or modifies this section. A provision of law, including a table incorporated into an Act, that appropriates funds described in paragraph (2) for low-enriched uranium activities may not be treated as specifically superseding this section unless such provision specifically cites to this section.

(c) Low-enriched Uranium Activities Defined.— In this section, the term “low-enriched uranium activities” means the following:

(1) Planning or carrying out research and development of an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium.

(2) Procuring ships that use low-enriched uranium in naval nuclear propulsion reactors.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–91, div. C, title XXXI, § 3115(b)(1)](/us/pl/115/91/dC/tXXXI/s3115/b/1), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1886](/us/stat/131/1886), § 7319; renumbered § 8689, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8689, acts [Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 537](/us/stat/70A/537); Sept. 26, 1961, [Pub. L. 87–304, § 9(d)](/us/pl/87/304/s9/d), [75 Stat. 665](/us/stat/75/665), related to assignments and allotments of pay, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 87–649, § 14c(57)](/us/pl/87/649/s14c/57), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 502](/us/stat/76/502), effective Nov. 1, 1962. See [section 701 of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s701), Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 7319 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7319) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
