---
title: "§ 2401. Effective date; identification of programs"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 641, Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 460](/us/stat/75/460).)"
---
# § 2401. Effective date; identification of programs

##### § 2401. Effective date; identification of programs

This chapter shall take effect on September 4, 1961. Programs under this chapter shall be identified appropriately overseas as “American Aid”.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 641, Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 460](/us/stat/75/460).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424), known as the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### USAID Branding Modernization

[Pub. L. 116–334](/us/pl/116/334), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5115](/us/stat/134/5115), provided that: “SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘USAID Branding Modernization Act’. “SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR BRANDING.“(a) In General.—The Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (referred to in this section as ‘USAID’), in coordination with the Secretary of State, as appropriate, and with due consideration for the safety and security of implementing partners and beneficiaries, is authorized to prescribe, as appropriate, the use of logos or other insignia of the USAID Identity, or the use of additional or substitute markings, including the United States flag, to appropriately identify, including as required by section 641 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 ([22 U.S.C. 2401](/us/usc/t22/s2401)), overseas programs administered by USAID. “(b) Audit.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 13, 2021], the Inspector General of USAID shall submit to Congress an audit of compliance with relevant branding and marking requirements of USAID by implementing partners funded by USAID, including any requirements prescribed pursuant to the authorization under subsection (a).”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Executive Order No. 13964

Ex. Ord. No. 13964, Dec. 10, 2020, 85 F.R. 81333, which related to rebranding United States foreign assistance to advance American influence, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 14029, § 1, May 14, 2021, 86 F.R. 27025.
