---
title: "§ 7062. Policy; composition; organized peace establishment"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7062"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7062"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 166](/us/stat/70A/166), § 3062; [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1057(a)(6)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1057/a/6), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3441](/us/stat/119/3441); renumbered § 7062, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1838](/us/stat/132/1838).)"
---
# § 7062. Policy; composition; organized peace establishment

##### § 7062. Policy; composition; organized peace establishment

(a) It is the intent of Congress to provide an Army that is capable, in conjunction with the other armed forces, of—

(1) preserving the peace and security, and providing for the defense, of the United States, the Commonwealths and possessions, and any areas occupied by the United States;

(2) supporting the national policies;

(3) implementing the national objectives; and

(4) overcoming any nations responsible for aggressive acts that imperil the peace and security of the United States.

(b) In general, the Army, within the Department of the Army, includes land combat and service forces and such aviation and water transport as may be organic therein. It shall be organized, trained, and equipped primarily for prompt and sustained combat incident to operations on land. It is responsible for the preparation of land forces necessary for the effective prosecution of war except as otherwise assigned and, in accordance with integrated joint mobilization plans, for the expansion of the peacetime components of the Army to meet the needs of war.

(c) The Army consists of—

(1) the Regular Army, the Army National Guard of the United States, the Army National Guard while in the service of the United States and the Army Reserve; and

(2) all persons appointed or enlisted in, or conscripted into, the Army without component.

(d) The organized peace establishment of the Army consists of all—

necessary to form the basis for a complete and immediate mobilization for the national defense in the event of a national emergency.

(1) military organizations of the Army with their installations and supporting and auxiliary elements, including combat, training, administrative, and logistic elements; and

(2) members of the Army, including those not assigned to units;

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 166](/us/stat/70A/166), § 3062; [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1057(a)(6)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1057/a/6), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3441](/us/stat/119/3441); renumbered § 7062, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1838](/us/stat/132/1838).)*

In subsection (a), 10:20 (1st 19 words) is omitted as surplusage. The word “Commonwealth” is inserted to reflect the present status of Puerto Rico. The words “any areas occupied by the United States” are substituted for the words “occupied areas wherever located”.

In subsection (c), the words “consists of” are substituted for the word “includes”.

In subsection (c)(1), the words “the Army National Guard while in the service of the United States” are substituted for the words “all persons serving in the Army under call * * * under any provision of law, including members of the National Guard of the several States, Territories, and the District of Columbia when in the service of the United States pursuant to call as provided by law”. 10:1b (words between 1st and 3d semicolons) and 50:1021 (last sentence) are omitted, since the components listed include their members.

In subsection (c)(2), the words “or inducted” are omitted as covered by the word “conscripted”.

In subsection (d), 10:20i (8th through 38th words) is omitted as surplusage. The words “consists of all” are substituted for the words “shall include all of”. The words “members of the Army” are substituted for the word “personnel”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 3062(a)3062(b)3062(c)3062(d) | 10:20.5:181–1(e).10:1b.10:20i. | July 10, 1950, ch. 454, § 2, § 101, 64 Stat. 321.July 26, 1947, ch. 343, § 205(e), 61 Stat. 501. |
|  | 50:1021. | June 28, 1950, ch. 383, § 301, 64 Stat. 268; July 9, 1952, ch. 608, § 807(b), 66 Stat. 508. |
|  |  | July 9, 1952, ch. 608, § 301, 66 Stat. 498. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 3062 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3062) as this section.

2006—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163) substituted “Commonwealths and possessions” for “Territories, Commonwealths, and possessions”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
