---
title: "§ 2085. Low-speed electric bicycles"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2085"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2085"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–573, § 38](/us/pl/92/573/s38), as added [Pub. L. 107–319, § 1](/us/pl/107/319/s1), Dec. 4, 2002, [116 Stat. 2776](/us/stat/116/2776).)"
---
# § 2085. Low-speed electric bicycles

##### § 2085. Low-speed electric bicycles

(a) Construction Notwithstanding any other provision of law, low-speed electric bicycles are consumer products within the meaning of section 2052(a)(1) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title and shall be subject to the Commission regulations published at section 1500.18(a)(12) and part 1512 of title 16, Code of Federal Regulations.

(b) Definition For the purpose of this section, the term “low-speed electric bicycle” means a two- or three-wheeled vehicle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts (1 h.p.), whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a motor while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less than 20 mph.

(c) Promulgation of requirements To further protect the safety of consumers who ride low-speed electric bicycles, the Commission may promulgate new or amended requirements applicable to such vehicles as necessary and appropriate.

(d) Preemption This section shall supersede any State law or requirement with respect to low-speed electric bicycles to the extent that such State law or requirement is more stringent than the Federal law or requirements referred to in subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 92–573, § 38](/us/pl/92/573/s38), as added [Pub. L. 107–319, § 1](/us/pl/107/319/s1), Dec. 4, 2002, [116 Stat. 2776](/us/stat/116/2776).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2052(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2052/a/1), referred to in subsec. (a), was redesignated [section 2052(a)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2052/a/5) by [Pub. L. 110–314, title II, § 235(b)(4)](/us/pl/110/314/tII/s235/b/4), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3074](/us/stat/122/3074).
