---
title: "§ 1397n–5. Federal Interagency Council on Social Impact Partnerships"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1397n–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1397n–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2056, as added [Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title VIII, § 50802(2)](/us/pl/115/123/dE/tVIII/s50802/2), Feb. 9, 2018, [132 Stat. 278](/us/stat/132/278).)"
---
# § 1397n–5. Federal Interagency Council on Social Impact Partnerships

##### § 1397n–5. Federal Interagency Council on Social Impact Partnerships

(a) Establishment There is established the Federal Interagency Council on Social Impact Partnerships (in this section referred to as the “Council”) to—

(1) coordinate with the Secretary on the efforts of social impact partnership projects funded under this division;

(2) advise and assist the Secretary in the development and implementation of the projects;

(3) advise the Secretary on specific programmatic and policy matter related to the projects;

(4) provide subject-matter expertise to the Secretary with regard to the projects;

(5) certify to the Secretary that each State or local government that has entered into an agreement with the Secretary for a social impact partnership project under this division and each evaluator selected by the head of the relevant agency under [section 1397n–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1397n–4) has access to Federal administrative data to assist the State or local government and the evaluator in evaluating the performance and outcomes of the project;

(6) address issues that will influence the future of social impact partnership projects in the United States;

(7) provide guidance to the executive branch on the future of social impact partnership projects in the United States;

(8) prior to approval by the Secretary, certify that each State and local government application for a social impact partnership contains rigorous, independent data and reliable, evidence-based research methodologies to support the conclusion that the project will yield savings to the State or local government or the Federal Government if the project outcomes are achieved;

(9) certify to the Secretary, in the case of each approved social impact partnership that is expected to yield savings to the Federal Government, that the project will yield a projected savings to the Federal Government if the project outcomes are achieved, and coordinate with the relevant Federal agency to produce an after-action accounting once the project is complete to determine the actual Federal savings realized, and the extent to which actual savings aligned with projected savings; and

(10) provide periodic reports to the Secretary and make available reports periodically to Congress and the public on the implementation of this division.

(b) Composition of Council The Council shall have 11 members, as follows:

(1) Chair The Chair of the Council shall be the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

(2) Other members The head of each of the following entities shall designate one officer or employee of the entity to be a Council member:

(A) The Department of Labor.

(B) The Department of Health and Human Services.

(C) The Social Security Administration.

(D) The Department of Agriculture.

(E) The Department of Justice.

(F) The Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(G) The Department of Education.

(H) The Department of Veterans Affairs.

(I) The Department of the Treasury.

(J) The Corporation for National and Community Service.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2056, as added [Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title VIII, § 50802(2)](/us/pl/115/123/dE/tVIII/s50802/2), Feb. 9, 2018, [132 Stat. 278](/us/stat/132/278).)*
