---
title: "§ 1098f. Deferral of loan repayment following active duty"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1098f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1098f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, § 493D](/us/pl/89/329/tIV/s493D), as added [Pub. L. 110–84, title II, § 204](/us/pl/110/84/tII/s204), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 795](/us/stat/121/795).)"
---
# § 1098f. Deferral of loan repayment following active duty

##### § 1098f. Deferral of loan repayment following active duty

(a) Deferral of loan repayment following active duty In addition to any deferral of repayment of a loan made under this subchapter pursuant to section 1078(b)(1)(M)(iii), 1087e(f)(2)(C), or 1087dd(c)(2)(A)(iii) of this title, a borrower of a loan under this subchapter who is a member of the National Guard or other reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States, or a member of such Armed Forces in a retired status, is called or ordered to active duty, and is enrolled, or was enrolled within six months prior to the activation, in a program of instruction at an eligible institution, shall be eligible for a deferment during the 13 months following the conclusion of such service, except that a deferment under this subsection shall expire upon the borrower’s return to enrolled student status.

(b) Active duty Notwithstanding [section 1088(d) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1088/d), in this section, the term “active duty” has the meaning given such term in [section 101(d)(1) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101/d/1), except that such term—

(1) does not include active duty for training or attendance at a service school; but

(2) includes, in the case of members of the National Guard, active State duty.

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, § 493D](/us/pl/89/329/tIV/s493D), as added [Pub. L. 110–84, title II, § 204](/us/pl/110/84/tII/s204), Sept. 27, 2007, [121 Stat. 795](/us/stat/121/795).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2007, see [section 1(c) of Pub. L. 110–84](/us/pl/110/84/s1/c), set out as an Effective Date of 2007 Amendment note under [section 1070a of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1070a).
