---
title: "§ 42307. Requirement to maintain a live customer chat or monitored text messaging number"
identifier: "USC-T49-S42307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section42307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title V, § 505(b)(1)](/us/pl/118/63/tV/s505/b/1), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1191](/us/stat/138/1191).)"
---
# § 42307. Requirement to maintain a live customer chat or monitored text messaging number

##### § 42307. Requirement to maintain a live customer chat or monitored text messaging number

(a) Requirement.—

(1) In general.— A covered air carrier that operates a domestic or international flight to, from, or within the United States shall maintain—

(A) a customer service telephone line staffed by live agents;

(B) a customer chat option that allows for customers to speak to a live agent within a reasonable time, to the greatest extent practicable; or

(C) a monitored text messaging number that enables customers to communicate and speak with a live agent directly.

(2) Provision of services.— The services required under paragraph (1) shall be provided to customers without charge for the use of such services, and shall be available at all times.

(b) Rulemaking Authority.— The Secretary shall promulgate such rules as may be necessary to carry out this section.

(c) Covered Air Carrier Defined.— In this section, the term “covered air carrier” means an air carrier that sells tickets for scheduled passenger air transportation on an aircraft that, as originally designed, has a passenger capacity of 30 or more seats.

(d) Effective Date.— Beginning on the date that is 120 days after the date of enactment of this section, a covered air carrier shall comply with the requirement specified in subsection (a) without regard to whether the Secretary has promulgated any rules to carry out this section as of the date that is 120 days after such date of enactment.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title V, § 505(b)(1)](/us/pl/118/63/tV/s505/b/1), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1191](/us/stat/138/1191).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (d), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63), which was approved May 16, 2024.
