---
title: "§ 1513. Impact on local governments"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1513"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1513"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–4, title I, § 106](/us/pl/104/4/tI/s106), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 63](/us/stat/109/63).)"
---
# § 1513. Impact on local governments

##### § 1513. Impact on local governments

(a) Findings The Senate finds that—

(1) the Congress should be concerned about shifting costs from Federal to State and local authorities and should be equally concerned about the growing tendency of States to shift costs to local governments;

(2) cost shifting from States to local governments has, in many instances, forced local governments to raise property taxes or curtail sometimes essential services; and

(3) increases in local property taxes and cuts in essential services threaten the ability of many citizens to attain and maintain the American dream of owning a home in a safe, secure community.

(b) Sense of Senate It is the sense of the Senate that—

(1) the Federal Government should not shift certain costs to the State, and States should end the practice of shifting costs to local governments, which forces many local governments to increase property taxes;

(2) States should end the imposition, in the absence of full consideration by their legislatures, of State issued mandates on local governments without adequate State funding, in a manner that may displace other essential government priorities; and

(3) one primary objective of this chapter and other efforts to change the relationship among Federal, State, and local governments should be to reduce taxes and spending at all levels and to end the practice of shifting costs from one level of government to another with little or no benefit to taxpayers.

*([Pub. L. 104–4, title I, § 106](/us/pl/104/4/tI/s106), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 63](/us/stat/109/63).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 104–4](/us/pl/104/4), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 48](/us/stat/109/48), known as the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1501 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1501) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, or on the date 90 days after appropriations are made available as authorized under [section 1516 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1516), whichever is earlier, and applicable to legislation considered on and after such date, see [section 110 of Pub. L. 104–4](/us/pl/104/4/s110), set out as a note under [section 1511 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1511).
