---
title: "§ 2094. Attachment of moneys"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2094"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2094"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 264](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s264), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3237](/us/stat/106/3237); amended [Pub. L. 103–178, title II, § 202(a)(12)](/us/pl/103/178/tII/s202/a/12), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2027](/us/stat/107/2027).)"
---
# § 2094. Attachment of moneys

##### § 2094. Attachment of moneys

(a) Exemption from legal process Except as provided in subsections (b), (c), and (e), none of the moneys mentioned in this subchapter shall be assignable either in law or equity, or be subject to execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process, except as otherwise may be provided by Federal laws.

(b) Payment to former spouses under court order or spousal agreement In the case of any participant, former participant, or retired participant who has a former spouse who is covered by a court order or who is a party to a spousal agreement—

shall be determined in accordance with that spousal agreement or court order, if and to the extent expressly provided for in the terms of the spousal agreement or court order that are not inconsistent with the requirements of this subchapter.

(1) any right of the former spouse to any annuity under [section 2032(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2032/a) in connection with any retirement or disability annuity of the participant, and the amount of any such annuity;

(2) any right of the former spouse of a participant or retired participant to a survivor annuity under section 2032(b) or 2032(c) of this title, and the amount of any such annuity; and

(3) any right of the former spouse of a former participant to any payment of a lump-sum credit under [section 2071(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2071/b), and the amount of any such payment;

(c) Other payments under court orders Payments under this subchapter that would otherwise be made to a participant, former participant, or retired participant based upon that participant’s service shall be paid, in whole or in part, by the Director to another individual if and to the extent expressly provided for in the terms of any court decree of divorce, annulment, or legal separation, or the terms of any court order or court-approved property settlement agreement incident to any court decree of divorce, annulment, or legal separation.

(d) Prospective payments; bar to recovery

(1) Subsections (b) and (c) apply only to payments made under this subchapter for periods beginning after the date of receipt by the Director of written notice of such decree, order, or agreement and such additional information and documentation as the Director may require.

(2) Any payment under subsection (b) or (c) to an individual bars recovery by any other individual.

(e) Allotments An individual entitled to an annuity from the fund may make allotments or assignments of amounts from such annuity for such purposes as the Director considers appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 264](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s264), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3237](/us/stat/106/3237); amended [Pub. L. 103–178, title II, § 202(a)(12)](/us/pl/103/178/tII/s202/a/12), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2027](/us/stat/107/2027).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 264 of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s264), as added [Pub. L. 94–522, title II, § 212](/us/pl/94/522/tII/s212), Oct. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 2471](/us/stat/90/2471), related to recovery of payments and was set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403) prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643) by [section 802 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s802). See [section 2095 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2095).

#### Amendments

1993—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 103–178, § 202(a)(12)(A)](/us/pl/103/178/s202/a/12/A), inserted “and” at end.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 103–178, § 202(a)(12)(B)](/us/pl/103/178/s202/a/12/B), substituted “, and the amount of any such payment;” for “and to any payment of a return of contributions under [section 2054(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2054/a); and”.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 103–178, § 202(a)(12)(C)](/us/pl/103/178/s202/a/12/C), struck out par. (4) which read as follows: “any right of the former spouse of a participant or former participant to a lump-sum payment or additional annuity payable from a voluntary contribution account under [section 2121 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2121);”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1993 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–178](/us/pl/103/178) effective Feb. 1, 1993, see [section 202(b) of Pub. L. 103–178](/us/pl/103/178/s202/b), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).
