---
title: "§ 12507. Penalties"
identifier: "USC-T46-S12507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section12507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–710, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/100/710/tI/s101/a), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4737](/us/stat/102/4737).)"
---
# § 12507. Penalties

##### § 12507. Penalties

(a) A person shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 2 years, or both, if the person with the intent to defraud—

(1) provides false information to the Secretary of Transportation or a State issuing authority regarding the identification of a vessel under this chapter; or

(2) tampers with, removes, or falsifies the unique vessel identification number assigned to a vessel under [section 12502 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s12502).

(b) A person is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 if the person—

(1) provides false information to the Secretary or a State issuing authority regarding the identification of a vessel under this chapter;

(2) violates [section 12502 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s12502); or

(3) fails to comply with requirements prescribed by the Secretary under [section 12505 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s12505).

(c) A vessel involved in a violation of this chapter, or regulation under this chapter, and its equipment, may be seized by, and forfeited to, the Government.

(d) If a person, not an individual, is involved in a violation of this chapter, the president or chief executive of the person also is subject to any penalty provided under this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–710, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/100/710/tI/s101/a), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4737](/us/stat/102/4737).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

*Revised section 12507*

This section establishes criminal and civil penalties for certain violations of chapter 125 of title 46 (as enacted by this Act).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1989, with certain exceptions and qualifications, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 100–710](/us/pl/100/710/s107), set out as a note under [section 31301 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31301).
