---
title: "§ 70912. Service of process"
identifier: "USC-T36-S70912"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section70912"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1359](/us/stat/112/1359); [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(7)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/7), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/120/1212); [Pub. L. 116–7, § 13](/us/pl/116/7/s13), Feb. 21, 2019, [133 Stat. 482](/us/stat/133/482).)"
---
# § 70912. Service of process

##### § 70912. Service of process

(a) In General.— The FFA shall have a designated agent to receive service of process for the FFA..11 So in original. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is notice to or service on the FFA.

(b) States, Territories, and Possessions.— As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by this chapter, the FFA shall file, with the Secretary of State or other designated official of each State, territory, or possession of the United States in which a subordinate association or chapter of the FFA is organized, the name and address of an agent in that State, territory, or possession on whom legal process or demands against the FFA may be served.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1359](/us/stat/112/1359); [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(7)](/us/pl/109/284/s5/7), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/120/1212); [Pub. L. 116–7, § 13](/us/pl/116/7/s13), Feb. 21, 2019, [133 Stat. 482](/us/stat/133/482).)*

In subsection (a), the word “have” is substituted for “maintain” for consistency in the revised title. The words “at all times”, “authorized”, and “deemed sufficient” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), the word “precedent” is omitted as unnecessary. The words “with the secretary of state or other designated official” are substituted for “in the Office of the Secretary of State, or similar officer” for consistency in the revised title. The words “post office” and “authorized” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 70912(a) | 36:275 (2d, last sentences). | Aug. 30, 1950, ch. 823, §§ 5 (2d, last sentences), 17, 64 Stat. 565, 567. |
| 70912(b) | 36:287. |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–7, § 13(1)](/us/pl/116/7/s13/1), in heading, substituted “In General” for “District of Columbia”, and in text, substituted “FFA” for “corporation” wherever appearing and struck out “in the District of Columbia” before “to receive” and “Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia” before “. Notice”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–7, § 13(2)](/us/pl/116/7/s13/2), substituted “FFA” for “corporation” in two places and inserted “of the FFA” after “association or chapter”.

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–284](/us/pl/109/284) substituted “corporation shall” for “Corporation shall”.
