---
title: "§ 41307. Reporting requirement for missing children"
identifier: "USC-T34-S41307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section41307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXVII, § 3701](/us/pl/101/647/tXXXVII/s3701), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4966](/us/stat/104/4966); [Pub. L. 108–21, title II, § 204](/us/pl/108/21/tII/s204), Apr. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 660](/us/stat/117/660); [Pub. L. 117–327, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/327/s2/c/1), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4455](/us/stat/136/4455).)"
---
# § 41307. Reporting requirement for missing children

##### § 41307. Reporting requirement for missing children

(a) In general Each Federal, State, and local law enforcement agency shall report each case of a missing child under the age of 21 reported to such agency to the National Crime Information Center of the Department of Justice and, consistent with section 40507 (including rules promulgated pursuant to section 40507(c)) of this title, shall also report such case, either directly or through authorization described in such section to transmit, enter, or share information on such case, to the NamUs databases.

(b) Guidelines The Attorney General may establish guidelines for the collection of such reports including procedures for carrying out the purposes of this section and [section 41308 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s41308).11 See References in Text note below.

(c) Annual summary The Attorney General shall publish an annual statistical summary of the reports received under this section and [section 41308 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s41308).

*([Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXVII, § 3701](/us/pl/101/647/tXXXVII/s3701), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4966](/us/stat/104/4966); [Pub. L. 108–21, title II, § 204](/us/pl/108/21/tII/s204), Apr. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 660](/us/stat/117/660); [Pub. L. 117–327, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/327/s2/c/1), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4455](/us/stat/136/4455).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This section and [section 41308 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s41308), referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this Act”, and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title XXXVII of [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647), which enacted this section and [section 41308 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s41308), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5779 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5779), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–327](/us/pl/117/327) inserted before period at end “and, consistent with section 40507 (including rules promulgated pursuant to section 40507(c)) of this title, shall also report such case, either directly or through authorization described in such section to transmit, enter, or share information on such case, to the NamUs databases”.

2003—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–21](/us/pl/108/21) substituted “age of 21” for “age of 18”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–327](/us/pl/117/327) applicable with respect to reports made before, on, or after Dec. 27, 2022, see [section 40506(c)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s40506/c/3).
