---
title: "§ 2012. Furniture for House of Representatives"
identifier: "USC-T2-S2012"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section2012"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Apr. 28, 1902, ch. 594](/us/act/1902-04-28/ch594), [32 Stat. 125](/us/stat/32/125); [Pub. L. 111–248, § 3(a)](/us/pl/111/248/s3/a), Sept. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 2626](/us/stat/124/2626).)"
---
# § 2012. Furniture for House of Representatives

##### § 2012. Furniture for House of Representatives

The Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives shall supervise and direct the care and repair of all furniture in the Hall, cloakrooms, lobby, committee rooms, and offices of the House, and all furniture required for the House of Representatives or for any of its committee rooms or offices shall be procured on designs and specifications made or approved by the Chief Administrative Officer.

*([Apr. 28, 1902, ch. 594](/us/act/1902-04-28/ch594), [32 Stat. 125](/us/stat/32/125); [Pub. L. 111–248, § 3(a)](/us/pl/111/248/s3/a), Sept. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 2626](/us/stat/124/2626).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 169 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

Section is based on par. from act Apr. 28, 1902, popularly known as the “Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Appropriation Act, fiscal year 1903”.

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–248](/us/pl/111/248) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Architect of the Capitol shall supervise and direct the care and repair of all furniture in the Hall, cloakrooms, lobby, committee rooms, and offices of the House, and all furniture required for the House of Representatives or for any of its committee rooms or offices shall be procured on designs and specifications made or approved by the said Architect.”
