---
title: "§ 460vv–11. Timber management report"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460vv–11"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460vv–11"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–499, § 13](/us/pl/100/499/s13), Oct. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 2497](/us/stat/102/2497); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(20)](/us/pl/103/437/s6/d/20), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4584](/us/stat/108/4584).)"
---
# § 460vv–11. Timber management report

##### § 460vv–11. Timber management report

The Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee on Agriculture of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the United States Senate a report on the timber management program on those lands of the Ouachita National Forest located in Le Flore County, Oklahoma, each year after October 18, 1988, for a period of 20 years. Each such report shall include information on timber management practices, sale preparation, harvest levels, reforestation, forest pest and damage problems, multiple use mitigation practices, including wildlife enhancement, recreation, protection of scenery, vegetation conversion, roads, and vegetative cover along streams, roads and trails. The report shall also include an economic impact statement of the Ouachita National Forest in Le Flore County, Oklahoma, on the timber industry and the tourism and recreation industry.

*([Pub. L. 100–499, § 13](/us/pl/100/499/s13), Oct. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 2497](/us/stat/102/2497); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(20)](/us/pl/103/437/s6/d/20), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4584](/us/stat/108/4584).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs” after “Committee on”.
