---
title: "§ 101304. Personal equipment and property"
identifier: "USC-T54-S101304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section101304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3124](/us/stat/128/3124).)"
---
# § 101304. Personal equipment and property

##### § 101304. Personal equipment and property

(a) Purchase of Personal Equipment and Supplies.— The Secretary may purchase personal equipment and supplies for employees of the Service and make deductions for the equipment and supplies from amounts appropriated for salary payments or otherwise due the employees.

(b) Lost, Damaged, or Destroyed Property.— The Secretary, in the administration of the Service, may reimburse employees and other owners of horses, vehicles, and other equipment lost, damaged, or destroyed while in the custody of the employee or the Department of the Interior, under authorization, contract, or loan, for necessary firefighting, trail, or other official business. Reimbursement shall be made from any available funds in the appropriation to which the hire of the equipment would be properly chargeable.

(c) Equipment Required To Be Furnished by Field Employees.— The Secretary may—

(1) require field employees of the Service to furnish horses, motor and other vehicles, and miscellaneous equipment necessary for the performance of their official work; and

(2) provide, at Federal Government expense, forage, care, and housing for animals, and housing or storage and fuel for vehicles and other equipment required to be furnished.

(d) Hire, Rental, and Purchase of Property.— The Secretary, under regulations the Secretary may prescribe, may authorize the hire, rental, or purchase of property from employees of the Service whenever it would promote the public interest to do so.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3124](/us/stat/128/3124).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 101304(a) | 16 U.S.C. 17. | May 26, 1930, ch. 324, §§ 1, 7 to 9, 46 Stat. 381, 382. |
| 101304(b) | 16 U.S.C. 17f. |  |
| 101304(c) | 16 U.S.C. 17g. |  |
| 101304(d) | 16 U.S.C. 17h. |  |
