---
title: "§ 3496. Regulations by President as to commissions, fees of witnesses, counsel and interpreters"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3496"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3496"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 836](/us/stat/62/836).)"
---
# § 3496. Regulations by President as to commissions, fees of witnesses, counsel and interpreters

##### § 3496. Regulations by President as to commissions, fees of witnesses, counsel and interpreters

The President is authorized to prescribe regulations governing the manner of executing and returning commissions by consular officers under the provisions of sections 3492–3494 of this title and schedules of fees allowable to witnesses, foreign counsel, and interpreters under [section 3495 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3495).

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 836](/us/stat/62/836).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on [section 695g of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s695g), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Judicial Code and Judiciary ([June 20, 1936, ch. 640, § 8](/us/act/1936-06-20/ch640/s8), [49 Stat. 1564](/us/stat/49/1564)).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 10307. Delegation of Authority

Ex. Ord. No. 10307, Nov. 23, 1951, 16 F.R. 11907, provided:

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of August 8, 1950, [64 Stat. 419](/us/stat/64/419) (3 U.S.C. Supp. 301–303), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State (1) the authority vested in the President by [section 3496 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3496) of the United States Code ([62 Stat. 836](/us/stat/62/836)) to prescribe regulations governing the manner of executing and returning commissions by consular officers under the provisions of sections 3492–3494 of the said title, and schedules of fees allowable to witnesses, foreign counsel, and interpreters under section 3495 of the said title, and (2) the authority vested in the President by [section 3492(c) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3492/c) of the United States Code ([62 Stat. 835](/us/stat/62/835)) to prescribe regulations making the provisions of sections 3492–3496 of the said title applicable to diplomatic officers.

Executive Order No. 8298 of December 4, 1939, entitled “Regulations Governing the Manner of Executing and Returning Commissions by Officers of the Foreign Service in Criminal Cases, and Schedule of Fees and Compensation in Such Cases”, is hereby revoked.
