---
title: "§ 20145. Lease of non-excess property"
identifier: "USC-T51-S20145"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section20145"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3352](/us/stat/124/3352); [Pub. L. 112–55, div. B, title III](/us/pl/112/55/dB/tIII), Nov. 18, 2011, [125 Stat. 626](/us/stat/125/626); [Pub. L. 115–10, title VIII, § 832](/us/pl/115/10/tVIII/s832), Mar. 21, 2017, [131 Stat. 67](/us/stat/131/67); [Pub. L. 115–403, § 2](/us/pl/115/403/s2), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5348](/us/stat/132/5348); [Pub. L. 116–94, div. I, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/116/94/dI/tVI/s602), Dec. 20, 2019, [13"
---
# § 20145. Lease of non-excess property

##### § 20145. Lease of non-excess property

(a) In General.— The Administrator may enter into a lease under this section with any person or entity (including another department or agency of the Federal Government or an entity of a State or local government) with regard to any non-excess real property and related personal property under the jurisdiction of the Administrator.

(b) Cash Consideration.—

(1) Fair market value.—

(A) A person or entity entering into a lease under this section shall provide cash consideration for the lease at fair market value as determined by the Administrator.

(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the Administrator may accept in-kind consideration for leases entered into for the purpose of developing renewable energy production facilities.

(2) Utilization.—

(A) In general.— The Administrator may utilize amounts of cash consideration received under this subsection for a lease entered into under this section to cover the full costs to the Administration in connection with the lease. These funds shall remain available until expended.

(B) Capital revitalization and improvements.— Of any amounts of cash consideration received under this subsection that are not utilized in accordance with subparagraph (A)—

(i) 35 percent shall be deposited in a capital asset account to be established by the Administrator, shall be available for maintenance, capital revitalization, and improvements of the real property assets and related personal property under the jurisdiction of the Administrator, and shall remain available until expended; and

(ii) the remaining 65 percent shall be available to the respective center or facility of the Administration engaged in the lease of nonexcess real property, and shall remain available until expended for maintenance, capital revitalization, and improvements of the real property assets and related personal property at the respective center or facility subject to the concurrence of the Administrator.

(C) No utilization for daily operating costs.— Amounts utilized under subparagraph (B) may not be utilized for daily operating costs.

(c) Additional Terms and Conditions.— The Administrator may require such terms and conditions in connection with a lease under this section as the Administrator considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

(d) Relationship to Other Lease Authority.— The authority under this section to lease property of the Administration is in addition to any other authority to lease property of the Administration under law.

(e) Lease Restrictions.—

(1) No lease back or other contract.— The Administration is not authorized to lease back property under this section during the term of the out-lease or enter into other contracts with the lessee respecting the property.

(2) Certification that out-lease will not have negative impact on mission.— The Administration is not authorized to enter into an out-lease under this section unless the Administrator certifies that the out-lease will not have a negative impact on the mission of the Administration.

(f) Reporting Requirements.— The Administrator shall submit an annual report by January 31st of each year. The report shall include the following:

(1) Value of arrangements and expenditures of revenues.— Information that identifies and quantifies the value of the arrangements and expenditures of revenues received under this section.

(2) Availability and use of funds for operating plan.— The availability and use of funds received under this section for the Administration’s operating plan.

(3) Annual and cumulative number of leases.— The annual and cumulative number of leases entered into under this section, by National Aeronautics and Space Administration center and facility.

(4) Estimated cost savings.— For each active lease agreement under this section, the estimated cost savings to the Administration resulting from reduced maintenance, operating, and associated costs in the previous fiscal year.

(5) Other quantifiable benefits.— Other quantifiable benefits, including additional cost savings not included under paragraph (4), to the Administration resulting from the use of leases under this section.

(g) Report on Enhanced-use Leasing Requirements.— Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2022, the Administrator shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a report on existing requirements for applicants seeking a lease under this section, including—

(1) any requirement related to the involvement of foreign entities, foreign entity ownership, and foreign entity investment; and

(2) at the discretion of the Administrator, any other requirement related to the protection and security of Administration missions and facilities.

(h) Sunset.— The authority to enter into leases under this section shall expire December 31, 2032. The expiration under this subsection of authority to enter into leases under this section shall not affect the validity or term of leases or the Administration’s retention of proceeds from leases entered into under this section before the expiration of the authority.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3352](/us/stat/124/3352); [Pub. L. 112–55, div. B, title III](/us/pl/112/55/dB/tIII), Nov. 18, 2011, [125 Stat. 626](/us/stat/125/626); [Pub. L. 115–10, title VIII, § 832](/us/pl/115/10/tVIII/s832), Mar. 21, 2017, [131 Stat. 67](/us/stat/131/67); [Pub. L. 115–403, § 2](/us/pl/115/403/s2), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5348](/us/stat/132/5348); [Pub. L. 116–94, div. I, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/116/94/dI/tVI/s602), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3028](/us/stat/133/3028); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. HH, title II, § 203](/us/pl/117/103/dHH/tII/s203), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 1113](/us/stat/136/1113); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VII, § 10862](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVII/s10862), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1756](/us/stat/136/1756).)*

In subsection (f)(2), the word “Administration’s” is substituted for “Agency’s” for clarity.

In subsection (g), the words “10 years after December 26, 2007” are substituted for “on the date that is ten years after the date of the enactment of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2008” for consistency and to reflect the date of enactment of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008 ([Public Law 110–161, div. B](/us/pl/110/161/dB), [121 Stat. 1884](/us/stat/121/1884)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20145 | 42 U.S.C. 2459j. | Pub. L. 85–568, title III, § 315, as added Pub. L. 108–7, div. K, title IV, § 418, Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 525; Pub. L. 110–161, div. B, title V, § 533(a)–(e), Dec. 26, 2007, 121 Stat. 1931; Pub. L. 110–422, title XI, § 1117(c), (d), Oct. 15, 2008, 122 Stat. 4814. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2022, referred to in subsec. (g), is the date of enactment of title VII of div. B of [Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167), which was approved Aug. 9, 2022.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (f)(3) to (5). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10862(b)](/us/pl/117/167/s10862/b), added pars. (3) to (5).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10862(c)(2)](/us/pl/117/167/s10862/c/2), added subsec. (g). Former subsec. (g) redesignated (h).

[Pub. L. 117–167, § 10862(a)](/us/pl/117/167/s10862/a), substituted “December 31, 2032” for “December 31, 2022”.

[Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) substituted “December 31, 2022” for “December 31, 2021”.

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10862(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/s10862/c/1), redesignated subsec. (g) as (h).

2019—Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 116–94](/us/pl/116/94) substituted “December 31, 2021” for “December 31, 2019”.

2018—Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 115–403](/us/pl/115/403) substituted “December 31, 2019” for “December 31, 2018”.

2017—Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 115–10](/us/pl/115/10) substituted “December 31, 2018” for “10 years after December 26, 2007”.

2011—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 112–55](/us/pl/112/55) designated existing provisions as subpar. (A) and added subpar. (B).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Findings

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. HH, title II, § 202](/us/pl/117/103/dHH/tII/s202), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 1113](/us/stat/136/1113), provided that: “Congress finds the following: “(1) NASA uses enhanced-use leasing to enter into agreements with private sector entities, State and local governments, academic institutions, and other Federal agencies for lease of non-excess, underutilized NASA properties and facilities. “(2) NASA uses enhanced-use leasing authority to support responsible management of its real property, including to improve the use of underutilized property for activities that are compatible with NASA’s mission and to reduce facility operating and maintenance costs. “(3) In fiscal year 2019, under its enhanced-use lease authority, NASA leased 65 real properties. “(4) In fiscal year 2019, NASA’s use of enhanced-use leasing resulted in the collection of $10,843,025.77 in net revenue. “(5) In fiscal year 2019, NASA used a portion of its enhanced-use leasing revenues for repairs of facility control systems such as lighting and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning. “(6) NASA’s use of enhanced-use leasing authority can contribute to reducing the rate of increase of the Agency’s overall deferred maintenance cost.”

#### Deposit of Proceeds

[Pub. L. 113–6, div. B, title III](/us/pl/113/6/dB/tIII), Mar. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 263](/us/stat/127/263), provided in part: “That hereafter, notwithstanding section 315 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 (see [51 U.S.C. 20145](/us/usc/t51/s20145)), all proceeds from leases entered into under that section shall be deposited into this account [funds appropriated under the headings ‘National Aeronautics and Space Administration’ and ‘construction and environmental compliance and restoration’ of title III of div. B of [Pub. L. 113–6](/us/pl/113/6)]: *Provided further*, That such proceeds shall be available for a period of 5 years to the extent and in amounts as provided in annual appropriations Acts”.

Similar provisions were contained in the following appropriation acts:

[Pub. L. 118–42, div. C, title III](/us/pl/118/42/dC/tIII), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 160](/us/stat/138/160).

[Pub. L. 117–328, div. B, title III](/us/pl/117/328/dB/tIII), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4548](/us/stat/136/4548).

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. B, title III](/us/pl/117/103/dB/tIII), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 137](/us/stat/136/137).

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. B, title III](/us/pl/116/260/dB/tIII), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/134/1270).

[Pub. L. 116–93, div. B, title III](/us/pl/116/93/dB/tIII), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2418](/us/stat/133/2418).

[Pub. L. 116–6, div. C, title III](/us/pl/116/6/dC/tIII), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 123](/us/stat/133/123).

[Pub. L. 115–141, div. B, title III](/us/pl/115/141/dB/tIII), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 431](/us/stat/132/431).

[Pub. L. 115–31, div. B, title III](/us/pl/115/31/dB/tIII), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 214](/us/stat/131/214).

[Pub. L. 114–113, div. B, title III](/us/pl/114/113/dB/tIII), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2317](/us/stat/129/2317).

[Pub. L. 113–235, div. B, title III](/us/pl/113/235/dB/tIII), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/128/2203).

[Pub. L. 113–76, div. B, title III](/us/pl/113/76/dB/tIII), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 72](/us/stat/128/72).

[Pub. L. 112–55, div. B, title III](/us/pl/112/55/dB/tIII), Nov. 18, 2011, [125 Stat. 625](/us/stat/125/625).

[Pub. L. 111–117, div. B, title III](/us/pl/111/117/dB/tIII), Dec. 16, 2009, [123 Stat. 3144](/us/stat/123/3144).
