---
title: "§ 7116. Local educational agency applications"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7116"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7116"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4106](/us/pl/89/10/tIV/s4106), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, § 4101](/us/pl/114/95/tIV/s4101), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 1974](/us/stat/129/1974).)"
---
# § 7116. Local educational agency applications

##### § 7116. Local educational agency applications

(a) Eligibility To be eligible to receive an allocation under [section 7115(a) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7115/a), a local educational agency shall—

(1) submit an application, which shall contain, at a minimum, the information described in subsection (e), to the State educational agency at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the State educational agency may reasonably require; and

(2) complete a needs assessment in accordance with subsection (d).

(b) Consortium If a local educational agency desires to carry out the activities described in this subpart in consortium with one or more surrounding local educational agencies as described in [section 7115(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7115/a/3), such local educational agencies shall submit a single application as required under subsection (a).

(c) Consultation

(1) In general A local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies, shall develop its application through consultation with parents, teachers, principals, other school leaders, specialized instructional support personnel, students, community-based organizations, local government representatives (which may include a local law enforcement agency, local juvenile court, local child welfare agency, or local public housing agency), Indian tribes or tribal organizations that may be located in the region served by the local educational agency (where applicable), charter school teachers, principals, and other school leaders (if such agency or consortium of such agencies supports charter schools), and others with relevant and demonstrated expertise in programs and activities designed to meet the purpose of this subpart.

(2) Continued consultation The local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies, shall engage in continued consultation with the entities described in paragraph (1) in order to improve the local activities in order to meet the purpose of this subpart and to coordinate such implementation with other related strategies, programs, and activities being conducted in the community.

(d) Needs assessment

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2) and prior to receiving an allocation under this subpart, a local educational agency or consortium of such agencies shall conduct a comprehensive needs assessment of the local educational agency or agencies proposed to be served under this subpart in order to examine needs for improvement of—

(A) access to, and opportunities for, a well-rounded education for all students;

(B) school conditions for student learning in order to create a healthy and safe school environment; and

(C) access to personalized learning experiences supported by technology and professional development for the effective use of data and technology.

(2) Exception A local educational agency receiving an allocation under [section 7115(a) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7115/a) in an amount that is less than $30,000 shall not be required to conduct a comprehensive needs assessment under paragraph (1).

(3) Frequency of needs assessment Each local educational agency, or consortium of local educational agencies, shall conduct the needs assessment described in paragraph (1) once every 3 years.

(e) Contents of local application Each application submitted under this section by a local educational agency, or a consortium of such agencies, shall include the following:

(1) Descriptions A description of the activities and programming that the local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies, will carry out under this subpart, including a description of—

(A) any partnership with an institution of higher education, business, nonprofit organization, community-based organization, or other public or private entity with a demonstrated record of success in implementing activities under this subpart;

(B) if applicable, how funds will be used for activities related to supporting well-rounded education under [section 7117 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7117);

(C) if applicable, how funds will be used for activities related to supporting safe and healthy students under [section 7118 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7118);

(D) if applicable, how funds will be used for activities related to supporting the effective use of technology in schools under [section 7119 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7119); and

(E) the program objectives and intended outcomes for activities under this subpart, and how the local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies, will periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the activities carried out under this section based on such objectives and outcomes.

(2) Assurances Each application shall include assurances that the local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies, will—

(A) prioritize the distribution of funds to schools served by the local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies, that—

(i) are among the schools with the greatest needs, as determined by such local educational agency, or consortium;

(ii) have the highest percentages or numbers of children counted under [section 6333(c) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6333/c);

(iii) are identified for comprehensive support and improvement under [section 6311(c)(4)(D)(i) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6311/c/4/D/i);

(iv) are implementing targeted support and improvement plans as described in [section 6311(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6311/d/2); or

(v) are identified as a persistently dangerous public elementary school or secondary school under [section 7912 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7912);

(B) comply with [section 7881 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7881) (regarding equitable participation by private school children and teachers);

(C) use not less than 20 percent of funds received under this subpart to support one or more of the activities authorized under [section 7117 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7117);

(D) use not less than 20 percent of funds received under this subpart to support one or more activities authorized under [section 7118 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7118);

(E) use a portion of funds received under this subpart to support one or more activities authorized under [section 7119(a) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7119/a), including an assurance that the local educational agency, or consortium of local educational agencies, will comply with [section 7119(b) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7119/b); and

(F) annually report to the State for inclusion in the report described in [section 7114(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7114/a/2) how funds are being used under this subpart to meet the requirements of subparagraphs (C) through (E).

(f) Special rule Any local educational agency receiving an allocation under [section 7115(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7115/a/1) in an amount less than $30,000 shall be required to provide only one of the assurances described in subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) of subsection (e)(2).

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4106](/us/pl/89/10/tIV/s4106), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, § 4101](/us/pl/114/95/tIV/s4101), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 1974](/us/stat/129/1974).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7116, [Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4116](/us/pl/89/10/tIV/s4116), as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/107/110/tIV/s401), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1750](/us/stat/115/1750), related to reporting by States and local educational agencies, prior to the general amendment of this subpart by [Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95).

Another prior section 7116, [Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4116](/us/pl/89/10/tIV/s4116), as added [Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101](/us/pl/103/382/tI/s101), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 3682](/us/stat/108/3682); amended [Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(1) [title III, § 314]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/1/tIII/s314), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–47, related to local drug and violence prevention programs, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110).

A prior [section 4106 of Pub. L. 89–10](/us/pl/89/10/s4106) was classified to [section 3066 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3066), prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 89–10](/us/pl/89/10) by [Pub. L. 103–382](/us/pl/103/382).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
