---
title: "§ 1449. Mental incompetency of member"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1449"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1449"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 92–425, § 1(3)](/us/pl/92/425/s1/3), Sept. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 708](/us/stat/86/708); amended [Pub. L. 95–397, title II, § 207(a)](/us/pl/95/397/tII/s207/a), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 848](/us/stat/92/848); [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XIV, § 1407(a)(3)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tXIV/s1407/a/3), title XVI, § 1621(a)(1), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1588](/us/stat/103/1588), 1602; [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title VI, § 634](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tVI/s634), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2560](/us"
---
# § 1449. Mental incompetency of member

##### § 1449. Mental incompetency of member

(a) Election by Secretary Concerned on Behalf of Mentally Incompetent Member.— If a person to whom [section 1448 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1448) applies is determined to be mentally incompetent by medical officers of the armed force concerned or of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, an election described in subsection (a)(2) or (b) of [section 1448 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1448) may be made on behalf of that person by the Secretary concerned.

(b) Revocation of Election by Member.—

(1) Authority upon subsequent determination of mental competence.— If a person for whom the Secretary has made an election under subsection (a) is later determined to be mentally competent by an authority named in that subsection, that person may, within 180 days after that determination, revoke that election.

(2) Deductions from retired pay or CRSC not to be refunded.— Any deduction made from retired pay or combat-related special compensation by reason of such an election may not be refunded.

*(Added [Pub. L. 92–425, § 1(3)](/us/pl/92/425/s1/3), Sept. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 708](/us/stat/86/708); amended [Pub. L. 95–397, title II, § 207(a)](/us/pl/95/397/tII/s207/a), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 848](/us/stat/92/848); [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XIV, § 1407(a)(3)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tXIV/s1407/a/3), title XVI, § 1621(a)(1), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1588](/us/stat/103/1588), 1602; [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title VI, § 634](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tVI/s634), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2560](/us/stat/110/2560); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VI, § 643(c)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVI/s643/c/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2166](/us/stat/130/2166).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) inserted “or CRSC” after “retired pay” in heading and “or combat-related special compensation” after “from retired pay” in text.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “If a person to whom [section 1448 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1448) applies is determined to be mentally incompetent by medical officers of the armed force concerned or of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, any election described in subsection (a)(2) or (b) of [section 1448 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1448) may be made on behalf of that person by the Secretary concerned. If the person for whom the Secretary has made an election is later determined to be mentally competent by an authority named in the first sentence, he may, within 180 days after that determination revoke that election. Any deductions made from retired pay by reason of such an election will not be refunded.”

1989—[Pub. L. 101–189](/us/pl/101/189) substituted “Department of Veterans Affairs” for “Veterans’ Administration” and struck out “or retainer” after “made from retired”.

1978—[Pub. L. 95–397](/us/pl/95/397) substituted “subsection (a)(2) or (b)” for “the first sentence of subsection (a), or subsection (b)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–397](/us/pl/95/397) effective Oct. 1, 1978, and applicable to annuities payable by virtue of amendment for months beginning on or after such date, see [section 210 of Pub. L. 95–397](/us/pl/95/397/s210), set out as a note under [section 1447 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1447).
