---
title: "§ 300b–1. Research project grants and contracts"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XI, § 1102, as added [Pub. L. 94–278, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/94/278/tIV/s403/a), Apr. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 408](/us/stat/90/408).)"
---
# § 300b–1. Research project grants and contracts

##### § 300b–1. Research project grants and contracts

In carrying out [section 241 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s241), the Secretary may make grants to public and nonprofit private entities, and may enter into contracts with public and private entities and individuals, for projects for (1) basic or applied research leading to the understanding, diagnosis, treatment, and control of genetic diseases, (2) planning, establishing, demonstrating, and developing special programs for the training of genetic counselors, social and behavioral scientists, and other health professionals, (3) the development of programs to educate practicing physicians, other health professionals, and the public regarding the nature of genetic processes, the inheritance patterns of genetic diseases, and the means, methods, and facilities available to diagnose, control, counsel, and treat genetic diseases, and (4) the development of counseling and testing programs and other programs for the diagnosis, control, and treatment of genetic diseases. In making grants and entering into contracts for projects described in clause (1) of the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall give priority to applications for such grants or contracts which are submitted for research on sickle cell anemia and for research on Cooley’s anemia.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XI, § 1102, as added [Pub. L. 94–278, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/94/278/tIV/s403/a), Apr. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 408](/us/stat/90/408).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 300b–1, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XI, § 1102](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tXI/s1102), as added May 16, 1972, [Pub. L. 92–294, § 3(c)](/us/pl/92/294/s3/c), [86 Stat. 138](/us/stat/86/138), authorized Secretary to make grants and enter contracts with public and private entities and individuals for projects concerned with research, research training in diagnosis, treatment and control of sickle cell anemia, informational and educational programs with respect to sickle cell anemia and development of counseling and testing programs, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 94–278, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/94/278/tIV/s403/a), Apr. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 407](/us/stat/90/407).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 94–278, title IV, § 403(c)](/us/pl/94/278/tIV/s403/c), Apr. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 410](/us/stat/90/410), provided that: “The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) [see [section 401 of Pub. L. 94–278](/us/pl/94/278/s401), set out as a Short Title of 1976 Amendment note under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201)] shall take effect July 1, 1976.”

#### Short Title of 1976 Amendment

For short title of title IV of [Pub. L. 94–278](/us/pl/94/278), which enacted this part, omitted former part B of this subchapter, redesignated former parts C and D of this subchapter as parts B and C of this subchapter, respectively, as the “National Sickle Cell Anemia, Cooley’s Anemia, Tay-Sachs, and Genetic Diseases Act”, see [section 401 of Pub. L. 94–278](/us/pl/94/278/s401), set out as a note under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201).

#### Demonstration Program for the Development and Establishment of Systemic Mechanisms for the Prevention and Treatment of Sickle Cell Disease

[Pub. L. 108–357, title VII, § 712(c)](/us/pl/108/357/tVII/s712/c), Oct. 22, 2004, [118 Stat. 1559](/us/stat/118/1559), as amended by [Pub. L. 115–327, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/327/s3/a), Dec. 18, 2018, [132 Stat. 4469](/us/stat/132/4469), which was formerly set out as a note under this section, was transferred to [section 300b–5(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300b–5/b) by [Pub. L. 115–327, § 3(b)](/us/pl/115/327/s3/b), Dec. 18, 2018, [132 Stat. 4470](/us/stat/132/4470).

#### Congressional Declaration of Purpose

[Pub. L. 94–278, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/94/278/tIV/s402), Apr. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 407](/us/stat/90/407), as amended by [Pub. L. 95–626, title II, § 205(a)](/us/pl/95/626/tII/s205/a), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3583](/us/stat/92/3583); [Pub. L. 111–256, § 2(i)](/us/pl/111/256/s2/i), Oct. 5, 2010, [124 Stat. 2644](/us/stat/124/2644), provided that: “In order to preserve and protect the health and welfare of all citizens, it is the purpose of this title [see [section 401 of Pub. L. 94–278](/us/pl/94/278/s401), set out as a Short Title of 1976 Amendment note under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201)] to establish a national program to provide for basic and applied research, research training, testing, counseling, and information and education programs with respect to genetic diseases, and genetic conditions, such as Sickle Cell anemia, Cooley’s Anemia, Tay–Sachs disease, cystic fibrosis, dysautonomia, hemophilia, retinitis pigmentosa, Huntington’s chorea, muscular dystrophy, and genetic conditions leading to intellectual disabilities or genetically caused mental disorders.”

[For meaning of references to an intellectual disability and to individuals with intellectual disabilities in provisions amended by [section 2 of Pub. L. 111–256](/us/pl/111/256/s2), see [section 2(k) of Pub. L. 111–256](/us/pl/111/256/s2/k), set out as a note under [section 1400 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1400), Education.]
