---
title: "§ 299c–3. Dissemination of information"
identifier: "USC-T42-S299c–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section299c–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IX, § 944, formerly § 924, as added [Pub. L. 106–129, § 2(a)](/us/pl/106/129/s2/a), Dec. 6, 1999, [113 Stat. 1667](/us/stat/113/1667); renumbered § 934, [Pub. L. 109–41, § 2(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/41/s2/a/3), July 29, 2005, [119 Stat. 424](/us/stat/119/424); renumbered § 944, [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3013(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3013/a/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 381](/us/stat/124/381).)"
---
# § 299c–3. Dissemination of information

##### § 299c–3. Dissemination of information

(a) In general The Director shall—

(1) without regard to [section 501 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s501), promptly publish, make available, and otherwise disseminate, in a form understandable and on as broad a basis as practicable so as to maximize its use, the results of research, demonstration projects, and evaluations conducted or supported under this subchapter;

(2) ensure that information disseminated by the Agency is science-based and objective and undertakes consultation as necessary to assess the appropriateness and usefulness of the presentation of information that is targeted to specific audiences;

(3) promptly make available to the public data developed in such research, demonstration projects, and evaluations;

(4) provide, in collaboration with the National Library of Medicine where appropriate, indexing, abstracting, translating, publishing, and other services leading to a more effective and timely dissemination of information on research, demonstration projects, and evaluations with respect to health care to public and private entities and individuals engaged in the improvement of health care delivery and the general public, and undertake programs to develop new or improved methods for making such information available; and

(5) as appropriate, provide technical assistance to State and local government and health agencies and conduct liaison activities to such agencies to foster dissemination.

(b) Prohibition against restrictions Except as provided in subsection (c), the Director may not restrict the publication or dissemination of data from, or the results of, projects conducted or supported under this subchapter.

(c) Limitation on use of certain information No information, if an establishment or person supplying the information or described in it is identifiable, obtained in the course of activities undertaken or supported under this subchapter may be used for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was supplied unless such establishment or person has consented (as determined under regulations of the Director) to its use for such other purpose. Such information may not be published or released in other form if the person who supplied the information or who is described in it is identifiable unless such person has consented (as determined under regulations of the Director) to its publication or release in other form.

(d) Penalty Any person who violates subsection (c) shall be subject to a civil monetary penalty of not more than $10,000 for each such violation involved. Such penalty shall be imposed and collected in the same manner as civil money penalties under subsection (a) of [section 1320a–7a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–7a) are imposed and collected.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IX, § 944, formerly § 924, as added [Pub. L. 106–129, § 2(a)](/us/pl/106/129/s2/a), Dec. 6, 1999, [113 Stat. 1667](/us/stat/113/1667); renumbered § 934, [Pub. L. 109–41, § 2(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/41/s2/a/3), July 29, 2005, [119 Stat. 424](/us/stat/119/424); renumbered § 944, [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3013(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3013/a/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 381](/us/stat/124/381).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 299c–3, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IX, § 924](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tIX/s924), as added [Pub. L. 101–239, title VI, § 6103(c)](/us/pl/101/239/tVI/s6103/c), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2202](/us/stat/103/2202); amended [Pub. L. 102–410, § 9](/us/pl/102/410/s9), Oct. 13, 1992, [106 Stat. 2100](/us/stat/106/2100), related to additional provisions with respect to grants and contracts, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 106–129](/us/pl/106/129). See [section 299c–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s299c–4).
