---
title: "§ 4501. Purpose"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, § 2](/us/pl/116/113/s2), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 13](/us/stat/134/13).)"
---
# § 4501. Purpose

##### § 4501. Purpose

The purpose of this Act is to approve and implement the Agreement between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada entered into under the authority of [section 4202(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4202/b).

*([Pub. L. 116–113, § 2](/us/pl/116/113/s2), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 13](/us/stat/134/13).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 11](/us/stat/134/11), known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 116–113, § 1(a)](/us/pl/116/113/s1/a), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 11](/us/stat/134/11), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, repealing chapter 21 of this title, and enacting, amending, and repealing numerous sections and provisions set out as notes in this title and in Title 8, Aliens and Nationality, Title 15, Commerce and Trade, Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and Title 49, Transportation] may be cited as the ‘United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act’.”

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 116–113, title I, § 107](/us/pl/116/113/tI/s107), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 19](/us/stat/134/19), provided that: “(a) In General.—Sections 1 through 3 [enacting this section, [section 4502 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4502), and provisions set out as a note under this section] and this title [enacting subchapter I of this chapter] (other than section 103(c) [[19 U.S.C. 4513(c)](/us/usc/t19/s4513/c)]) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 29, 2020]. “(b) Proclamation Authority.—Section 103(c) shall take effect on the date on which the USMCA enters into force [July 1, 2020].”

[For definition of “USMCA” as used in [section 107(b) of Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113/s107/b), set out above, see [section 4502 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4502).]
