---
title: "§ 1972. Controlled substances in freely associated states"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1972"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1972"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–219, title II, § 201](/us/pl/101/219/tII/s201), Dec. 12, 1989, [103 Stat. 1874](/us/stat/103/1874).)"
---
# § 1972. Controlled substances in freely associated states

##### § 1972. Controlled substances in freely associated states

(a) In general The President is authorized to negotiate agreements which provide—

(1) that the United States shall carry out the provisions of part C of the Controlled Substances Act ([21 U.S.C. 821](/us/usc/t21/s821) et seq.) as necessary to provide for the lawful distribution of controlled substances in the freely associated states; and

(2) that a freely associated state which institutes and maintains a voluntary system to report annual estimates of narcotics needs to the International Narcotics Control Board, and which imposes controls on imports of narcotic drugs consistent with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, shall be eligible for exports of narcotic drugs from the United States in the same manner as a country meeting the requirements of subsection (a) of section 953 11 See References in Text note below. of title 21.

(b) Effective date Agreements concluded pursuant to this section shall become effective pursuant to [section 1901(f)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1901/f/5) or [section 1931(d)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1931/d/5), as may be applicable.

*([Pub. L. 101–219, title II, § 201](/us/pl/101/219/tII/s201), Dec. 12, 1989, [103 Stat. 1874](/us/stat/103/1874).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Controlled Substances Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is title II of [Pub. L. 91–513](/us/pl/91/513), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1242](/us/stat/84/1242). Part C of the Act is classified generally to part C (§ 821 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 13 of Title 21, Food and Drugs. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 801 of Title 21](/us/usc/t21/s801) and Tables.

[Section 953 of title 21](/us/usc/t21/s953), referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was in the original “section 1003 of the Controlled Substances Act”, and was translated as reading “section 1003 of the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act”, meaning [section 1003 of title III of Pub. L. 91–513](/us/pl/91/513/tIII/s1003), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1681).
