---
title: "§ 2235. Working capital fund established; use of central services by bureaus, etc., of the Department"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2235"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2235"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([July 12, 1943, ch. 215](/us/act/1943-07-12/ch215), [57 Stat. 393](/us/stat/57/393); [Pub. L. 89–106, § 7](/us/pl/89/106/s7), Aug. 4, 1965, [79 Stat. 432](/us/stat/79/432); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. July 1, 1970, 35 F.R. 7959, [84 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/84/2085).)"
---
# § 2235. Working capital fund established; use of central services by bureaus, etc., of the Department

##### § 2235. Working capital fund established; use of central services by bureaus, etc., of the Department

A working capital fund of $400,000 is established without fiscal year limitation, for the payment of salaries and other expenses necessary to the maintenance and operation of (1) central duplicating, photographic, and tabulating services, (2) a central motor-transport service for the maintenance, repair, and operation of motor-transport vehicles and other equipment, (3) a central supply service for the purchase, storage, handling, issuance, packing, or shipping of stationery, supplies, equipment, blank forms, and miscellaneous materials, for which stocks thereof, not to exceed $200,000 in value (except for the value of blank forms) at the close of any fiscal year, may be maintained sufficient to meet, in whole or in part, requirements of the bureaus and offices of the Department in the city of Washington and elsewhere, and (4) such other services as the Secretary, with the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, determines may be performed more advantageously as central services; said fund to be credited with advances or reimbursements from applicable funds of bureaus, offices, and agencies for which services are performed on the basis of rates which shall include estimated or actual charges for personal services, materials, equipment (including maintenance, repairs, and depreciation) and other expenses: *Provided*, That such advances shall not be available for any period beyond that provided by the Act appropriating the funds: *Provided further*, That such central services shall, to the fullest extent practicable, be used to make unnecessary the maintenance of separate like services in the bureaus, offices, and agencies of the department.

*([July 12, 1943, ch. 215](/us/act/1943-07-12/ch215), [57 Stat. 393](/us/stat/57/393); [Pub. L. 89–106, § 7](/us/pl/89/106/s7), Aug. 4, 1965, [79 Stat. 432](/us/stat/79/432); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. July 1, 1970, 35 F.R. 7959, [84 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/84/2085).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 542–1 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s542–1) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### Amendments

1965—[Pub. L. 89–106](/us/pl/89/106) substituted “credited with advances or reimbursements” for “reimbursed” and inserted “That such advances shall not be available for any period beyond that provided by the Act appropriating the funds: *Provided further,”.*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions vested by law (including reorganization plan) in Bureau of the Budget or Director of Bureau of the Budget transferred to President by section 101 of 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2. Section 102 of 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, redesignated Bureau of the Budget as Office of Management and Budget and offices of Director, Deputy Director, and Assistant Directors of Bureau of the Budget as Director, Deputy Director, and Assistant Directors of Office of Management and Budget, respectively. Section 103 of 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, transferred records, property, personnel and funds of Bureau of the Budget to Office of Management and Budget. See Part I of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1970, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
