---
title: "§ 701f–1. Additional authorization"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701f–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701f–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([June 28, 1938, ch. 795, § 9](/us/act/1938-06-28/ch795/s9), [52 Stat. 1226](/us/stat/52/1226); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/b), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 578](/us/stat/91/578).)"
---
# § 701f–1. Additional authorization

##### § 701f–1. Additional authorization

The sum of $375,000,000 is hereby authorized to be appropriated for carrying out the improvements herein over the five-year period ending June 30, 1944, and the sum of $10,000,000 additional is authorized to be appropriated and expended in equal amounts by the Departments of the Army and Agriculture for carrying out any examinations and surveys provided for in this Act and any other Acts of Congress, to be prosecuted by said Departments. The sum of $1,500,000 additional is authorized to be appropriated and expended by the Secretary of Energy for carrying out any examinations and surveys provided for in this Act or any other Acts of Congress, to be prosecuted by the said Secretary of Energy.

*([June 28, 1938, ch. 795, § 9](/us/act/1938-06-28/ch795/s9), [52 Stat. 1226](/us/stat/52/1226); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/b), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 578](/us/stat/91/578).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

“Herein” and “this Act”, referred to in text, mean [act June 28, 1938, ch. 795](/us/act/1938-06-28/ch795), [52 Stat. 1215](/us/stat/52/1215), popularly known as the Flood Control Act of June 28, 1938, which to the extent classified to the Code enacted sections 701b, 701b–1, 701b–2, 701c–1, 701f–1, 701i, 701j, 702a–1½, 702a–11, and 706 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Energy” substituted in text for “Federal Power Commission” on authority of [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/b), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577), which is classified to [section 7151(b) of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7151/b), The Public Health and Welfare.

#### Additional Authorization

Sections 15 and 17 of [act July 24, 1946, ch. 596](/us/act/1946-07-24/ch596), [60 Stat. 653](/us/stat/60/653), provided: “Sec. 15. That the sum of $772,000,000 is hereby authorized to be appropriated for carrying out improvements by the War Department [now Department of the Army], the sum of $10,000,000 additional is authorized to be appropriated and expended in equal amounts by the Departments of War [now Army] and Agriculture for carrying out any examination or survey provided for in this Act and any other Acts of Congress to be prosecuted by said Departments. “Sec. 17. That the $5,000,000 authorized to be appropriated in section 10 of the Flood Control Act approved August 18, 1941 [set out as a note under this section], is reauthorized to be appropriated, and the sum of $20,000,000 additional is authorized to be appropriated, for expenditure by the Department of Agriculture for the prosecution of the works of improvement authorized to be carried out by that Department by the Flood Control Act of December 22, 1944 [[act Dec. 22, 1944, ch. 665](/us/act/1944-12-22/ch665), [58 Stat. 887](/us/stat/58/887)].”

[Act Aug. 18, 1941, ch. 377, § 10](/us/act/1941-08-18/ch377/s10), [55 Stat. 651](/us/stat/55/651), provided as follows: “That the sum of $275,000,000 is hereby authorized to be appropriated for carrying out the improvements herein, the sum of $10,000,000 additional is authorized to be appropriated and expended in equal amounts by the Departments of War [now Army] and Agriculture for carrying out any examinations and surveys provided for in this Act and any other Acts of Congress to be prosecuted by said departments. There is also hereby authorized to be appropriated for expenditure by the Department of Agriculture in carrying on works of improvement of the character specified in section 7 of the Flood Control Act of June 28, 1938 [[section 701b–1 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s701b–1)], and which the Department is not otherwise authorized to undertake, such additional sums, not to exceed $5,000,000, as may be necessary for that purpose. All appropriations necessary for operation and maintenance of flood-control works authorized by law to be operated and maintained by the United States are hereby authorized.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions, Federal Power Commission

For transfer of functions of the Federal Power Commission, with certain reservations, to chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 9 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, [64 Stat. 1265](/us/stat/64/1265), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
