---
title: "§ 10619. Technical assistance, training, and evaluation"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10619"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10619"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2959](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2959), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, § 2301(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII/s2301/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1797](/us/stat/116/1797); amended [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, § 14007(2)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tXIV/s14007/2), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1296](/us/stat/130/1296).)"
---
# § 10619. Technical assistance, training, and evaluation

##### § 10619. Technical assistance, training, and evaluation

(a) Technical assistance and training The Attorney General may provide technical assistance and training in furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter, including training for drug court personnel and officials on identifying and addressing co-occurring substance abuse and mental health problems.

(b) Evaluations In addition to any evaluation requirements that may be prescribed for grantees (including uniform data collection standards and reporting requirements), the Attorney General shall carry out or make arrangements for evaluations of programs that receive support under this subchapter.

(c) Administration The technical assistance, training, and evaluations authorized by this section may be carried out directly by the Attorney General, in collaboration with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or through grants, contracts, or other cooperative arrangements with other entities.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2959](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2959), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, § 2301(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII/s2301/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1797](/us/stat/116/1797); amended [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, § 14007(2)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tXIV/s14007/2), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1296](/us/stat/130/1296).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797u–8 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797u–8), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–255](/us/pl/114/255) inserted before period at end “, including training for drug court personnel and officials on identifying and addressing co-occurring substance abuse and mental health problems”.
