---
title: "§ 4107. Reports to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title I, § 9, [62 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/62/1246); [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 102](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s102), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)"
---
# § 4107. Reports to Congress

##### § 4107. Reports to Congress

Not later than six months after its organization, and every six months 11 See Modification of Reporting Requirements note below. thereafter, the Commission shall make a report to the Congress concerning its operations under this subchapter.

*([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title I, § 9, [62 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/62/1246); [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 102](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s102), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)*

#### Annual Submission of Reports

[Pub. L. 89–348, § 2(6)](/us/pl/89/348/s2/6), Nov. 8, 1965, [79 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/79/1312), modified the provisions of this section, beginning Jan. 1, 1967, to require annual instead of semiannual submission to Congress by Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of report concerning its operations under War Claims Act of 1948.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [act July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), [62 Stat. 1240](/us/stat/62/1240), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2008 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1962—[Pub. L. 87–846](/us/pl/87/846) made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For provisions transferring Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States to Department of Justice, as a separate agency, see section 1622a et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Modification of Reporting Requirements

[Pub. L. 89–348, § 2(6)](/us/pl/89/348/s2/6), Nov. 8, 1965, [79 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/79/1312), modified the reporting requirements of this section as follows: “Beginning January 1, 1967, from semiannual to annual submission to the Congress by the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States of a report concerning its operations under the War Claims Act of 1948 ([62 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/62/1246); 50 U.S.C. App. 2008 [now [50 U.S.C. 4107](/us/usc/t50/s4107)]).”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

War Claims Commission, including offices of its members, abolished and functions transferred to Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1954, §§ 2, 4, eff. July 1, 1954, 19 F.R. 3985, [68 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/68/1279), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. See, also, [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4101) and notes thereunder.
