---
title: "§ 3206a. Tsunami Science and Technology Advisory Panel"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3206a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3206a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–479, title VIII, § 808](/us/pl/109/479/tVIII/s808), as added [Pub. L. 115–25, title V, § 508(a)(2)](/us/pl/115/25/tV/s508/a/2), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 125](/us/stat/131/125).)"
---
# § 3206a. Tsunami Science and Technology Advisory Panel

##### § 3206a. Tsunami Science and Technology Advisory Panel

(a) Designation The Administrator shall designate an existing working group within the Science Advisory Board of the Administration to serve as the Tsunami Science and Technology Advisory Panel to provide advice to the Administrator on matters regarding tsunami science, technology, and regional preparedness.

(b) Membership

(1) Composition The Panel shall be composed of no fewer than 7 members selected by the Administrator from among individuals from academia or State agencies who have academic or practical expertise in physical sciences, social sciences, information technology, coastal resilience, emergency management, or such other disciplines as the Administrator considers appropriate.

(2) Federal employment No member of the Panel may be a Federal employee.

(c) Responsibilities Not less frequently than once every 4 years, the Panel shall—

(1) review the activities of the Administration, and other Federal activities as appropriate, relating to tsunami research, detection, forecasting, warning, mitigation, resiliency, and preparation; and

(2) submit to the Administrator and such others as the Administrator considers appropriate—

(A) the findings of the working group with respect to the most recent review conducted under paragraph (1); and

(B) such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the working group considers appropriate to improve Federal tsunami research, detection, forecasting, warning, mitigation, resiliency, and preparation.

(d) Reports to Congress Not less frequently than once every 4 years, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a report on the findings and recommendations received by the Administrator under subsection (c)(2).

*([Pub. L. 109–479, title VIII, § 808](/us/pl/109/479/tVIII/s808), as added [Pub. L. 115–25, title V, § 508(a)(2)](/us/pl/115/25/tV/s508/a/2), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 125](/us/stat/131/125).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 808 of Pub. L. 109–479](/us/pl/109/479/s808) was renumbered section 809 and is classified to [section 3207 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3207).
