---
title: "§ 5561. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5561"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5561"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1051](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1051), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2018](/us/stat/124/2018).)"
---
# § 5561. Definitions

##### § 5561. Definitions

(1) Bureau investigation The term “Bureau investigation” means any inquiry conducted by a Bureau investigator for the purpose of ascertaining whether any person is or has been engaged in any conduct that is a violation, as defined in this section.

(2) Bureau investigator The term “Bureau investigator” means any attorney or investigator employed by the Bureau who is charged with the duty of enforcing or carrying into effect any Federal consumer financial law.

(3) Custodian The term “custodian” means the custodian or any deputy custodian designated by the Bureau.

(4) Documentary material The term “documentary material” includes the original or any copy of any book, document, record, report, memorandum, paper, communication, tabulation, chart, logs, electronic files, or other data or data compilations stored in any medium.

(5) Violation The term “violation” means any act or omission that, if proved, would constitute a violation of any provision of Federal consumer financial law.

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1051](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1051), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2018](/us/stat/124/2018).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1058](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1058), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2035](/us/stat/124/2035), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle E (§§ 1051–1058), enacting this part] shall become effective on the designated transfer date.”

[The term “designated transfer date” is defined in [section 5481(9) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5481/9) as the date established under [section 5582 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5582).]
