---
title: "§ 8412. Identifying opportunities for recreation"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8412"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8412"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 112](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s112), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2838](/us/stat/138/2838).)"
---
# § 8412. Identifying opportunities for recreation

##### § 8412. Identifying opportunities for recreation

(a) Inventory and assessments

(1) In general The Secretary concerned shall—

(A) conduct an inventory and assessment of recreation resources for Federal recreational lands and waters;

(B) develop the inventory and assessment with support from public comment; and

(C) update the inventory and assessment as the Secretary concerned determines appropriate.

(2) Unique recreation values An inventory and assessment conducted under paragraph (1) shall—

(A) recognize—

(i) any unique recreation values and recreation opportunities; and

(ii) areas of concentrated recreational use; and

(B) identify, list, and map recreation resources by—

(i) type of recreation opportunity and type of natural or artificial recreation infrastructure;

(ii) to the extent available, the level of use of the recreation resource as of the date of the inventory; and

(iii) identifying, to the extent practicable, any trend relating to recreation opportunities or use at a recreation resource identified under subparagraph (A).

(3) Assessments For any recreation resource inventoried under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall assess—

(A) the maintenance needs of, and expenses necessary to administer, the recreation resource;

(B) the suitability for developing, expanding, or enhancing the recreation resource; and

(C) the adequacy of the current management of the recreation resource.

(b) Existing efforts To the extent practicable, the Secretary concerned shall use or incorporate existing applicable research and planning decisions and processes in carrying out this section.

(c) Omitted

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 112](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s112), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2838](/us/stat/138/2838).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 112 of Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234/s112). Subsec. (c) of [section 112 of Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234/s112) amended [section 200103 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s200103), National Park Service and Related Programs.
