---
title: "§ 1521a. Department of Commerce Nonrecurring Expenses Fund"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1521a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1521a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–93, div. B, title I, § 111](/us/pl/116/93/dB/tI/s111), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2395](/us/stat/133/2395).)"
---
# § 1521a. Department of Commerce Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

##### § 1521a. Department of Commerce Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

(a) There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the “Department of Commerce Nonrecurring Expenses Fund” (the Fund): *Provided*, That unobligated balances of expired discretionary funds appropriated for this or any succeeding fiscal year from the General Fund of the Treasury to the Department of Commerce by this or any other Act may be transferred (not later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes for which appropriated) into the Fund: *Provided further*, That amounts deposited in the Fund shall be available until expended, and in addition to such other funds as may be available for such purposes, for information and business technology system modernization and facilities infrastructure improvements necessary for the operation of the Department, subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget: *Provided further*, That amounts in the Fund may be obligated only after the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of the planned use of funds.

(b) In addition to amounts otherwise made available by this Act, there is appropriated $20,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to the Fund for necessary expenses for a business application system modernization.

*([Pub. L. 116–93, div. B, title I, § 111](/us/pl/116/93/dB/tI/s111), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2395](/us/stat/133/2395).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is div. B of [Pub. L. 116–93](/us/pl/116/93), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2385](/us/stat/133/2385), known as the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
