---
title: "§ 101. Payment for wagon transportation"
identifier: "USC-T25-S101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 30, 1913, ch. 4, § 1](/us/act/1913-06-30/ch4/s1), [38 Stat. 79](/us/stat/38/79).)"
---
# § 101. Payment for wagon transportation

##### § 101. Payment for wagon transportation

All wagon transportation from the point where delivery is made by the last common carrier to the agency, school, or elsewhere, and between points on the reservation or elsewhere, shall be paid from the funds appropriated or otherwise available for the support of the school, agency, or other project for which the supplies to be transported are purchased.

*([June 30, 1913, ch. 4, § 1](/us/act/1913-06-30/ch4/s1), [38 Stat. 79](/us/stat/38/79).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Jan. 1, 1947, Procurement Division of Department of the Treasury changed to Bureau of Federal Supply by regulation issued by Secretary of the Treasury under authority of [section 301 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s301), Government Organization and Employees. Functions of Bureau of Federal Supply transferred to Administrator of General Services by section 102 of [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title I](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288/tI), [63 Stat. 380](/us/stat/63/380), which was repealed and reenacted as [section 303(a) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303/a), Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304. [Section 303(a) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303/a) was amended generally by [Pub. L. 109–313, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/313/s2/a/1), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1734](/us/stat/120/1734), and, as so amended, no longer relates to the Bureau of Federal Supply. See Historical and Revision Notes and 2006 Amendment note under [section 303 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Function of determination of policies and methods of procurement, warehousing, and distribution of property, facilities, structures, improvements, machinery, equipment, stores, and supplies exercised by any agency transferred to a Procurement Division in Department of the Treasury by Ex. Ord. No. 6166, June 10, 1933, set out as a note under [section 901 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s901), Government Organization and Employees.
