---
title: "§ 7122. Exceptions to arbitral awards"
identifier: "USC-T5-S7122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section7122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/95/454/tVII/s701), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/92/1212); amended [Pub. L. 98–224, § 4](/us/pl/98/224/s4), Mar. 2, 1984, [98 Stat. 48](/us/stat/98/48).)"
---
# § 7122. Exceptions to arbitral awards

##### § 7122. Exceptions to arbitral awards

(a) Either party to arbitration under this chapter may file with the Authority an exception to any arbitrator’s award pursuant to the arbitration (other than an award relating to a matter described in [section 7121(f) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s7121/f)). If upon review the Authority finds that the award is deficient—

the Authority may take such action and make such recommendations concerning the award as it considers necessary, consistent with applicable laws, rules, or regulations.

(1) because it is contrary to any law, rule, or regulation; or

(2) on other grounds similar to those applied by Federal courts in private sector labor-management relations;

(b) If no exception to an arbitrator’s award is filed under subsection (a) of this section during the 30-day period beginning on the date the award is served on the party, the award shall be final and binding. An agency shall take the actions required by an arbitrator’s final award. The award may include the payment of backpay (as provided in [section 5596 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5596)).

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/95/454/tVII/s701), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/92/1212); amended [Pub. L. 98–224, § 4](/us/pl/98/224/s4), Mar. 2, 1984, [98 Stat. 48](/us/stat/98/48).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–224](/us/pl/98/224) amended subsec. (b) generally, substituting “beginning on the date the award is served on the party” for “beginning on the date of such award”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
