---
title: "§ 151707. Provision and acceptance of support by Librarian of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T36-S151707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section151707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1406](/us/stat/112/1406).)"
---
# § 151707. Provision and acceptance of support by Librarian of Congress

##### § 151707. Provision and acceptance of support by Librarian of Congress

(a) Provision by Librarian.—

(1) The Librarian of Congress may provide personnel, facilities, and other administrative services to the corporation. Administrative services may include reimbursement of expenses under [section 151703(f) of this title](/us/usc/t36/s151703/f), at rates not exceeding the applicable per diem rates for the United States Government.

(2) The corporation shall reimburse the Librarian for support provided under paragraph (1) of this subsection. Amounts reimbursed shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations then current and chargeable for the cost of providing the support.

(b) Acceptance by Librarian.— The Librarian may accept, without regard to chapters 33 and 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 and related regulations, the services of the corporation and its directors, officers, and employees as volunteers in performing functions authorized under this chapter, without compensation from the Library of Congress.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1406](/us/stat/112/1406).)*

In subsection (b), the words “chapters 33 and 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 and related regulations” are substituted for “the civil service classification laws, rules, or regulations” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 151707(a) | 36:5704. | Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104–285, title II, §§ 205, 206, 110 Stat. 3385. |
| 151707(b) | 36:5705. |  |
