---
title: "§ 7402. Prohibition on extradition or transfer of United States citizens to the International Criminal Court"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 706]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s706), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–461.)"
---
# § 7402. Prohibition on extradition or transfer of United States citizens to the International Criminal Court

##### § 7402. Prohibition on extradition or transfer of United States citizens to the International Criminal Court

(a) Prohibition on extradition None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be used to extradite a United States citizen to a foreign country that is under an obligation to surrender persons to the International Criminal Court unless that foreign country confirms to the United States that applicable prohibitions on reextradition apply to such surrender or gives other satisfactory assurances to the United States that the country will not extradite or otherwise transfer that citizen to the International Criminal Court.

(b) Prohibition on consent to extradition by third countries None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be used to provide consent to the extradition or transfer of a United States citizen by a foreign country to a third country that is under an obligation to surrender persons to the International Criminal Court, unless the third country confirms to the United States that applicable prohibitions on reextradition apply to such surrender or gives other satisfactory assurances to the United States that the third country will not extradite or otherwise transfer that citizen to the International Criminal Court.

(c) Definition In this section, the term “International Criminal Court” has the meaning given the term in [section 7401(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7401/c).

*([Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 706]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s706), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–461.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 262–1 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262–1).
