---
title: "§ 300c–12. Sudden infant death syndrome research"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300c–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300c–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XI, § 1122, as added [Pub. L. 96–142, title II, § 202](/us/pl/96/142/tII/s202), Dec. 12, 1979, [93 Stat. 1072](/us/stat/93/1072); amended [Pub. L. 99–158, § 3(a)(6)](/us/pl/99/158/s3/a/6), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 879](/us/stat/99/879); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 15(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s15/a/1), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4591](/us/stat/108/4591); [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(b)(2)(B)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/b/2/B), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat."
---
# § 300c–12. Sudden infant death syndrome research

##### § 300c–12. Sudden infant death syndrome research

From the sums appropriated to the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the Secretary shall assure that there are applied to research of the type described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (b)(1) 11 See References in Text note below. of this section such amounts each year as will be adequate, given the leads and findings then available from such research, in order to make maximum feasible progress toward identification of infants at risk of sudden infant death syndrome and prevention of sudden infant death syndrome.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XI, § 1122, as added [Pub. L. 96–142, title II, § 202](/us/pl/96/142/tII/s202), Dec. 12, 1979, [93 Stat. 1072](/us/stat/93/1072); amended [Pub. L. 99–158, § 3(a)(6)](/us/pl/99/158/s3/a/6), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 879](/us/stat/99/879); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 15(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s15/a/1), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4591](/us/stat/108/4591); [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(b)(2)(B)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/b/2/B), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3693](/us/stat/120/3693); [Pub. L. 110–154, § 1(b)(10)](/us/pl/110/154/s1/b/10), Dec. 21, 2007, [121 Stat. 1827](/us/stat/121/1827).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subsection (b), referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(b)(2)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/b/2/B/ii), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3693](/us/stat/120/3693). Prior to repeal, subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (b)(1) read as follows: “(A) the (i) number of applications approved by the Secretary in the fiscal year reported on for grants and contracts under this chapter for research which relates specifically to sudden infant death syndrome, (ii) total amount requested under such applications, (iii) number of such applications for which funds were provided in such fiscal year, and (iv) total amount of such funds; and “(B) the (i) number of applications approved by the Secretary in such fiscal year for grants and contracts under this chapter for research which relates generally to sudden infant death syndrome, including high-risk pregnancy and high-risk infancy research which directly relates to sudden infant death syndrome, (ii) relationship of the high-risk pregnancy and high-risk infancy research to sudden infant death syndrome, (iii) total amount requested under such applications, (iv) number of such applications for which funds were provided in such fiscal year, and (v) total amount of such funds.”

#### Amendments

2007—[Pub. L. 110–154](/us/pl/110/154) substituted “Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development” for “National Institute of Child Health and Human Development”.

[Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) struck out subsec. (a) designation before “From the sums” and subsecs. (b) and (c) which related to annual report on data relating to applications for grants and contracts for research on sudden infant death syndrome and annual estimate of amounts requested for such research.

1994—Subsecs. (b)(1), (c). [Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Energy and Commerce” for “Interstate and Foreign Commerce”.

1985—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–158](/us/pl/99/158) struck out “under [section 289d of this title](/us/usc/t42/s289d)” before “, the Secretary”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482) applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482/s109), set out as a note under [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s281).
