---
title: "§ 3346. Establishment of State appraiser certifying and licensing agencies"
identifier: "USC-T12-S3346"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section3346"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–73, title XI, § 1117](/us/pl/101/73/tXI/s1117), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 515](/us/stat/103/515); [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1473(f)(3)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1473/f/3), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2193](/us/stat/124/2193).)"
---
# § 3346. Establishment of State appraiser certifying and licensing agencies

##### § 3346. Establishment of State appraiser certifying and licensing agencies

To assure the availability of State certified and licensed appraisers for the performance in a State of appraisals in federally related transactions and to assure effective supervision of the activities of certified and licensed appraisers, a State may establish a State appraiser certifying and licensing agency. The duties of such agency may additionally include the registration and supervision of appraisal management companies and the addition of information about the appraisal management company to the national registry.

*([Pub. L. 101–73, title XI, § 1117](/us/pl/101/73/tXI/s1117), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 515](/us/stat/103/515); [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1473(f)(3)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1473/f/3), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2193](/us/stat/124/2193).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) inserted at end “The duties of such agency may additionally include the registration and supervision of appraisal management companies and the addition of information about the appraisal management company to the national registry.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the date on which final regulations implementing that amendment take effect, or on the date that is 18 months after the designated transfer date if such regulations have not been issued by that date, see [section 1400(c) of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1400/c), set out as a note under [section 1601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1601), Commerce and Trade.
