---
title: "§ 8404. Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8404"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8404"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–345, § 5](/us/pl/111/345/s5), Dec. 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 3620](/us/stat/124/3620).)"
---
# § 8404. Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission

##### § 8404. Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission

(a) In general Violation of this chapter or any regulation prescribed under this chapter shall be treated as a violation of a rule under section 18 of the Federal Trade Commission Act ([15 U.S.C. 57a](/us/usc/t15/s57a)) regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices. The Federal Trade Commission shall enforce this chapter in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act ([15 U.S.C. 41](/us/usc/t15/s41) et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this chapter.

(b) Penalties Any person who violates this chapter or any regulation prescribed under this chapter shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act were incorporated in and made part of this chapter.

(c) Authority preserved Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Commission under any other provision of law.

*([Pub. L. 111–345, § 5](/us/pl/111/345/s5), Dec. 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 3620](/us/stat/124/3620).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is [act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311](/us/act/1914-09-26/ch311), [38 Stat. 717](/us/stat/38/717), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 58 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s58) and Tables.
