---
title: "§ 907. Long-term lease of special purpose facilities"
identifier: "USC-T14-S907"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section907"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–206, title III, § 304(a)](/us/pl/103/206/tIII/s304/a), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2424](/us/stat/107/2424), § 672; amended [Pub. L. 104–324, title VII, § 746(d)](/us/pl/104/324/tVII/s746/d), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3943](/us/stat/110/3943); [Pub. L. 108–293, title II, § 212(a)](/us/pl/108/293/tII/s212/a), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/118/1036); renumbered § 907, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat"
---
# § 907. Long-term lease of special purpose facilities

##### § 907. Long-term lease of special purpose facilities

(a) The Secretary is authorized, subject to the availability of appropriations, to enter into lease agreements to acquire real property or interests therein for a term not to exceed 20 years, inclusive of any automatic renewal clauses, for special purpose facilities, including, aids to navigation (hereafter in this section referred to as “ATON”) sites, vessel traffic service (hereafter in this section referred to as “VTS”) sensor sites, or National Distress System (hereafter in this section referred to as “NDS”) high level antenna sites. These lease agreements shall include cancellation and termination provisions to the extent necessary to protect the best interests of the United States. Cancellation payment provisions may include consideration of both recurring and nonrecurring costs associated with the real property interests under the contract. These lease agreements may provide for a cancellation payment to be made. Amounts that were originally obligated for the cost of the contract may be used for cancellation or termination costs.

(b) For purposes of this section, the term “special purpose facilities” means any facilities used to carry out Coast Guard aviation, maritime, or navigation missions other than general purpose office and storage space facilities.

(c) In the case of ATON, VTS, or NDS sites, the Secretary may enter into multiyear lease agreements under subsection (a) of this section whenever the Secretary finds that—

(1) the use of such a lease agreement will promote the efficiency of the ATON, VTS, or NDS programs and will result in reduced total costs under the agreement;

(2) the minimum need for the real property or interest therein to be leased is expected to remain substantially unchanged during the contemplated lease period; and

(3) the estimates of both the cost of the lease and the anticipated cost avoidance through the use of a multiyear lease are realistic.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–206, title III, § 304(a)](/us/pl/103/206/tIII/s304/a), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2424](/us/stat/107/2424), § 672; amended [Pub. L. 104–324, title VII, § 746(d)](/us/pl/104/324/tVII/s746/d), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3943](/us/stat/110/3943); [Pub. L. 108–293, title II, § 212(a)](/us/pl/108/293/tII/s212/a), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/118/1036); renumbered § 907, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat/132/4205).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 672 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s672) as this section.

2004—[Pub. L. 108–293, § 212(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/293/s212/a/1), added section catchline and struck out former section catchline which read as follows: “Long-term lease authority for navigation and communications systems sites”.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–293, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/293/s212/a/2), inserted “special purpose facilities, including,” after “automatic renewal clauses, for”.

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 108–293, § 212(a)(3)](/us/pl/108/293/s212/a/3), added subsec. (b), redesignated former subsec. (b) as (c), and substituted “In the case of ATON, VTS, or NDS sites, the” for “The” in introductory provisions.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–324](/us/pl/104/324) added section catchline and struck out former section catchline.
