---
title: "§ 5902. Recognition of representatives of organizations"
identifier: "USC-T38-S5902"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section5902"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1238](/us/stat/72/1238), § 3402; [Pub. L. 91–24, § 12(b)](/us/pl/91/24/s12/b), June 11, 1969, [83 Stat. 34](/us/stat/83/34); [Pub. L. 98–160, title VII, § 703(5)](/us/pl/98/160/tVII/s703/5), Nov. 21, 1983, [97 Stat. 1010](/us/stat/97/1010); renumbered § 5902, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/1), (b)(1), (2)(E"
---
# § 5902. Recognition of representatives of organizations

##### § 5902. Recognition of representatives of organizations

(a)

(1) The Secretary may recognize representatives of the American National Red Cross, the American Legion, the Disabled American Veterans, the United Spanish War Veterans, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and such other organizations as the Secretary may approve, in the preparation, presentation, and prosecution of claims under laws administered by the Secretary.

(2) The Secretary may, in the discretion of the Secretary, furnish, if available, space and office facilities for the use of paid full-time representatives of national organizations so recognized.

(b)

(1) No individual shall be recognized under this section—

(A) unless the individual has certified to the Secretary that no fee or compensation of any nature will be charged any individual for services rendered in connection with any claim; and

(B) unless, with respect to each claim, such individual has filed with the Secretary a power of attorney, executed in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe.

(2) An individual recognized under this section shall be subject to the provisions of [section 5904(b) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5904/b) on the same basis as an individual recognized under [section 5904(a) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5904/a).

(c)

(1) Unless a claimant specifically indicates in a power of attorney filed with the Department a desire to appoint only a recognized representative of an organization listed in or approved under subsection (a), the Secretary may, for any purpose, treat the power of attorney naming such an organization, a specific office of such an organization, or a recognized representative of such an organization as the claimant’s representative as an appointment of the entire organization as the claimant’s representative.

(2) Whenever the Secretary is required or permitted to notify a claimant’s representative, and the claimant has named in a power of attorney an organization listed in or approved under subsection (a), a specific office of such an organization, or a recognized representative of such an organization without specifically indicating a desire to appoint only a recognized representative of the organization, the Secretary shall notify the organization at the address designated by the organization for the purpose of receiving the notification concerned.

(d) Service rendered in connection with any such claim, while not on active duty, by any retired officer, warrant officer, or enlisted member of the Armed Forces recognized under this section shall not be a violation of sections 203, 205, 206, or 207 of title 18.

*([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1238](/us/stat/72/1238), § 3402; [Pub. L. 91–24, § 12(b)](/us/pl/91/24/s12/b), June 11, 1969, [83 Stat. 34](/us/stat/83/34); [Pub. L. 98–160, title VII, § 703(5)](/us/pl/98/160/tVII/s703/5), Nov. 21, 1983, [97 Stat. 1010](/us/stat/97/1010); renumbered § 5902, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/1), (b)(1), (2)(E), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 403–405](/us/stat/105/403-405); [Pub. L. 104–275, title V, § 508(a)](/us/pl/104/275/tV/s508/a), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3343](/us/stat/110/3343); [Pub. L. 109–461, title I, § 101(a)(2)](/us/pl/109/461/tI/s101/a/2), Dec. 22, 2006, [120 Stat. 3406](/us/stat/120/3406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–461](/us/pl/109/461) designated existing provisions as par. (1), redesignated former pars. (1) and (2) as subpars. (A) and (B), respectively, of par. (1), and added par. (2).

1996—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 104–275](/us/pl/104/275) added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 3402 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3402) as this section.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” in two places.

[Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/1), substituted “administered by the Secretary” for “administered by the Veterans’ Administration”.

Subsecs. (a)(2), (b). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

1983—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 98–160, § 703(5)(A)](/us/pl/98/160/s703/5/A), substituted “the Administrator” for “he”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 98–160, § 703(5)(B)](/us/pl/98/160/s703/5/B), substituted “the discretion of the Administrator” for “his discretion”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 98–160, § 703(5)(C)](/us/pl/98/160/s703/5/C), substituted “the individual” for “he”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 98–160, § 703(5)(D)](/us/pl/98/160/s703/5/D), substituted “member” for “man”.

1969—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 91–24](/us/pl/91/24) substituted “sections 203, 205, 206 or 207 of title 18” for “section 281 or 283 of title 18, or a violation of [section 99 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s99)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

[Pub. L. 104–275, title V, § 508(b)](/us/pl/104/275/tV/s508/b), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/110/3344), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] apply to any power of attorney filed with the Department of Veterans Affairs, regardless of the date of its execution.”
