---
title: "§ 2153d. Authority to continue agreements for cooperation entered into prior to March 10, 1978"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2153d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2153d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–242, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/95/242/tIV/s405), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 148](/us/stat/92/148).)"
---
# § 2153d. Authority to continue agreements for cooperation entered into prior to March 10, 1978

##### § 2153d. Authority to continue agreements for cooperation entered into prior to March 10, 1978

(a) The amendments to [section 2153 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2153) made by this Act shall not affect the authority to continue cooperation pursuant to agreements for cooperation entered into prior to March 10, 1978.

(b) Nothing in this Act shall affect the authority to include dispute settlement provisions, including arbitration, in any agreement made pursuant to an Agreement for Cooperation.

*([Pub. L. 95–242, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/95/242/tIV/s405), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 148](/us/stat/92/148).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, means the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, [Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 120](/us/stat/92/120), which is classified principally to chapter 47 (§ 3201 et seq.) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 10, 1978, except as otherwise provided and regardless of any requirements for the promulgation of implementing regulations, see [section 603(c) of Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242/s603/c), set out as a note under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
