---
title: "§ 2521. Advisory Board on Women in the Coast Guard"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2521"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2521"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8215(c)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4651](/us/stat/134/4651).)"
---
# § 2521. Advisory Board on Women in the Coast Guard

##### § 2521. Advisory Board on Women in the Coast Guard

(a) In General.— The Commandant shall establish within the Coast Guard an Advisory Board on Women in the Coast Guard.

(b) Membership.— The Advisory Board established under subsection (a) shall be composed of such number of members as the Commandant considers appropriate, selected by the Commandant through a public selection process from among applicants for membership on the Board. The members of the Board shall, to the extent practicable, represent the diversity of the Coast Guard. The members of the Committee shall include an equal number of each of the following:

(1) Active duty officers of the Coast Guard.

(2) Active duty enlisted members of the Coast Guard.

(3) Members of the Coast Guard Reserve.

(4) Retired members of the Coast Guard.

(c) Duties.— The Advisory Board established under subsection (a)—

(1) shall advise the Commandant on improvements to the recruitment, retention, wellbeing, and success of women serving in the Coast Guard and attending the Coast Guard Academy, including recommendations for the report on gender diversity in the Coast Guard required by section 5109 of chapter 51 of title 14;

(2) may submit to the Commandant recommendations in connection with its duties under this subsection, including recommendations to implement the advice described in paragraph (1); and

(3) may brief Congress on its duties under this subsection, including the advice described in paragraph (1) and any recommendations described in paragraph (2).

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8215(c)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4651](/us/stat/134/4651).)*
