---
title: "§ 3034b. Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3034b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3034b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 103K, as added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVII, § 6704](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVII/s6704), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3562](/us/stat/136/3562); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, § 7310(b)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIII/s7310/b/1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1028](/us/stat/137/1028).)"
---
# § 3034b. Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer

##### § 3034b. Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer

(a) Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer There is an Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence who shall be appointed by the Director of National Intelligence.

(b) Requirement relating to appointment An individual appointed as the Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer shall have a professional background and experience appropriate for the duties of the Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer. In making such appointment, the Director of National Intelligence may give preference to an individual with experience outside of the United States Government.

(c) Duties The Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer shall—

(1) act as the chief representative of the Director of National Intelligence for data issues within the intelligence community;

(2) coordinate, to the extent practicable and advisable, with the Chief Data Officer of the Department of Defense to ensure consistent data policies, standards, and procedures between the intelligence community and the Department of Defense;

(3) assist the Director of National Intelligence regarding data elements of the budget of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence; and

(4) perform other such duties relating to data as may be prescribed by the Director of National Intelligence or specified in law.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 103K, as added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVII, § 6704](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVII/s6704), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3562](/us/stat/136/3562); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, § 7310(b)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIII/s7310/b/1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1028](/us/stat/137/1028).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (c)(4). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) inserted “relating to data” after “duties”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Removal of Unrelated Duties and Functions

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, § 7310(b)(2)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIII/s7310/b/2), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1028](/us/stat/137/1028), provided that: “Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 2023], consistent with section 103K(c) of the National Security Act of 1947 ([50 U.S.C. 3034b(c)](/us/usc/t50/s3034b/c)), as amended by paragraph (1), the Director of National Intelligence shall complete such internal reorganization of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence as the Director determines necessary to ensure that the duties of the Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer appointed under such section do not include any other duty that does not relate to an issue involving data.”
