---
title: "§ 3413. Certification of organizations"
identifier: "USC-T7-S3413"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section3413"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–113, title XVII, § 1714](/us/pl/95/113/tXVII/s1714), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/91/1039).)"
---
# § 3413. Certification of organizations

##### § 3413. Certification of organizations

(a) geographic territory covered by the organization’s active membership,

(b) nature and size of the organization’s active membership, including, in the case of an organization other than a consumer organization, the proportion of the total number of active wheat producers, processors, or end product manufacturers represented by the organization,

(c) evidence of stability and permanency of the organization,

(d) sources from which the organization’s operating funds are derived,

(e) functions of the organization, and

(f) the organization’s ability and willingness to further the aims and objectives of this title: *Provided*, That the primary consideration in determining the eligibility of an organization, other than a consumer organization, shall be whether its membership consists primarily of wheat producers, processors, or end product manufacturers who produce a substantial volume of wheat, processed wheat, or end products, respectively, and whether the organization is based on a primary or overriding interest in the production, processing, or end manufacture of wheat or wheat products, and the nutritional attributes thereof: *Provided further*, That the primary consideration in determining the eligibility of a consumer organization shall be whether (1) a principal purpose of the organization is to promote consumer interests, consumer research, or consumer education, (2) such organization has a broadly representative constituency of consumers, with active membership participation on a regular basis, and (3) the organization has demonstrated to the Secretary’s satisfaction its commitment to the achievement of the objectives of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 95–113, title XVII, § 1714](/us/pl/95/113/tXVII/s1714), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/91/1039).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1977, see [section 1901 of Pub. L. 95–113](/us/pl/95/113/s1901), set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under [section 1307 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1307).
