---
title: "§ 2202. Executive Department; Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Feb. 9, 1889, ch. 122](/us/act/1889-02-09/ch122), §§ 1, 4, [25 Stat. 659](/us/stat/25/659).)"
---
# § 2202. Executive Department; Secretary

##### § 2202. Executive Department; Secretary

The Department of Agriculture shall be an executive department, under the supervision and control of a Secretary of Agriculture, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The provisions of title 4 of the Revised Statutes, including all amendments thereto, shall be applicable to said department; and all laws and parts of laws relating to the Department of Agriculture in existence February 9, 1889, as far as the same are applicable and not in conflict with this section, and only so far, are continued in full force and effect.

*([Feb. 9, 1889, ch. 122](/us/act/1889-02-09/ch122), §§ 1, 4, [25 Stat. 659](/us/stat/25/659).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Title 4 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in text, was entitled “Provisions Applicable to All Executive Departments, and consisted of R.S. §§ 158 to 198. For provisions of the Code derived from such title 4, see sections 101, 301, 303, 304, 503, 2952, 3101, 3106, 3341, 3345 to 3349, 5535, 5536 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees; [section 207 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s207), Crimes and Criminal Procedure; sections 514, 520 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure; [section 3321 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3321), Money and Finance.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 512 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s512) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers, agencies, and employees of Department of Agriculture transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2201).

#### Order of Succession

For order of succession during any period when both Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Agriculture are unable to perform functions and duties of office of Secretary, see Ex. Ord. No. 13542, May 13, 2010, 75 F.R. 27921, listed in a table under [section 3345 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3345), Government Organization and Employees.
