---
title: "§ 1456. Utilization of facilities and personnel of other Government agencies; reimbursement to agencies; report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1456"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1456"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Jan. 27, 1948, ch. 36](/us/act/1948-01-27/ch36), title IV, § 401, [62 Stat. 8](/us/stat/62/8).)"
---
# § 1456. Utilization of facilities and personnel of other Government agencies; reimbursement to agencies; report to Congress

##### § 1456. Utilization of facilities and personnel of other Government agencies; reimbursement to agencies; report to Congress

The Secretary is authorized, in carrying on any activity under the authority of this chapter, to utilize, with the approval of the President, the services, facilities, and personnel of the other Government agencies. Whenever the Secretary shall use the services, facilities, or personnel of any Government agency for activities under authority of this chapter, the Secretary shall pay for such performance out of funds available to the Secretary under this chapter, either in advance, by reimbursement, or direct transfer. The Secretary shall include in each report submitted to the Congress under section 1439 11 See References in Text note below. of this title a statement of the services, facilities, and personnel of other Government agencies utilized in carrying on activities under the authority of this chapter, showing the names and salaries of the personnel utilized, or performing services utilized, during the period covered by such report, and the amounts paid to such other agencies under this section as payment for such performance.

*([Jan. 27, 1948, ch. 36](/us/act/1948-01-27/ch36), title IV, § 401, [62 Stat. 8](/us/stat/62/8).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1439 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1439), referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 96–470, title I, § 117](/us/pl/96/470/tI/s117), Oct. 19, 1980, [94 Stat. 2240](/us/stat/94/2240).
