---
title: "§ 284. Establishment; statement of purposes; description; acquisition of property; acreage limitation"
identifier: "USC-T16-S284"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section284"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–671, § 1](/us/pl/89/671/s1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 950](/us/stat/80/950); [Pub. L. 107–219, § 1(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/219/s1/a/1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1330](/us/stat/116/1330).)"
---
# § 284. Establishment; statement of purposes; description; acquisition of property; acreage limitation

##### § 284. Establishment; statement of purposes; description; acquisition of property; acreage limitation

For the purpose of establishing in the National Capital area a park for the performing arts and related educational programs, and for recreation use in connection therewith, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to establish, develop, improve, operate, and maintain the Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts in Fairfax County, Virginia. The park shall encompass the portions of the property formerly known as Wolf Trap Farm and Symphony Hill in Fairfax County, Virginia, to be donated for park purposes to the United States, and such additional lands or interests therein as the Secretary may acquire for purposes of the park by donation or purchase with donated or appropriated funds, the aggregate of which shall not exceed one hundred and forty-five acres.

*([Pub. L. 89–671, § 1](/us/pl/89/671/s1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 950](/us/stat/80/950); [Pub. L. 107–219, § 1(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/219/s1/a/1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1330](/us/stat/116/1330).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—[Pub. L. 107–219](/us/pl/107/219) substituted “Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts” for “Wolf Trap Farm Park”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Section 12 of Pub. L. 89–671](/us/pl/89/671/s12), as added by [Pub. L. 97–310](/us/pl/97/310), Oct. 14, 1982, [96 Stat. 1458](/us/stat/96/1458), and amended by [Pub. L. 107–219, § 1(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/219/s1/a/1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1330](/us/stat/116/1330), provided that: “This Act [enacting this subchapter] may be referred to as the ‘Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts Act’.”

#### Study of Park Future; Report to Congress

[Pub. L. 89–671, § 13](/us/pl/89/671/s13), as added by [Pub. L. 101–636, § 3](/us/pl/101/636/s3), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4587](/us/stat/104/4587), directed Secretary, acting jointly with the Foundation, to conduct a study and analysis of the operations and management practices being used to carry out the purposes of this subchapter and to submit, not later than 2 years after Nov. 28, 1990, a report of such study and analysis to Congress.
