---
title: "§ 364. Obtaining credit"
identifier: "USC-T11-S364"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section364"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2574](/us/stat/92/2574); [Pub. L. 99–554, title II, § 257](/us/pl/99/554/tII/s257)(*l*), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3115](/us/stat/100/3115); [Pub. L. 103–394, title V, § 501(d)(9)](/us/pl/103/394/tV/s501/d/9), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4144](/us/stat/108/4144); [Pub. L. 116–54, § 4(a)(7)](/us/pl/116/54/s4/a/7), Aug. 23, 2019, [133 Stat. 1086](/us/stat/133/1086); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title III, § 320(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tIII/s320/a)"
---
# § 364. Obtaining credit

##### § 364. Obtaining credit

(a) If the trustee is authorized to operate the business of the debtor under section 721, 1108, 1183, 1184, 1203, 1204, or 1304 of this title, unless the court orders otherwise, the trustee may obtain unsecured credit and incur unsecured debt in the ordinary course of business allowable under [section 503(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t11/s503/b/1) as an administrative expense.

(b) The court, after notice and a hearing, may authorize the trustee to obtain unsecured credit or to incur unsecured debt other than under subsection (a) of this section, allowable under [section 503(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t11/s503/b/1) as an administrative expense.

(c) If the trustee is unable to obtain unsecured credit allowable under [section 503(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t11/s503/b/1) as an administrative expense, the court, after notice and a hearing, may authorize the obtaining of credit or the incurring of debt—

(1) with priority over any or all administrative expenses of the kind specified in section 503(b) or 507(b) of this title;

(2) secured by a lien on property of the estate that is not otherwise subject to a lien; or

(3) secured by a junior lien on property of the estate that is subject to a lien.

(d)

(1) The court, after notice and a hearing, may authorize the obtaining of credit or the incurring of debt secured by a senior or equal lien on property of the estate that is subject to a lien only if—

(A) the trustee is unable to obtain such credit otherwise; and

(B) there is adequate protection of the interest of the holder of the lien on the property of the estate on which such senior or equal lien is proposed to be granted.

(2) In any hearing under this subsection, the trustee has the burden of proof on the issue of adequate protection.

(e) The reversal or modification on appeal of an authorization under this section to obtain credit or incur debt, or of a grant under this section of a priority or a lien, does not affect the validity of any debt so incurred, or any priority or lien so granted, to an entity that extended such credit in good faith, whether or not such entity knew of the pendency of the appeal, unless such authorization and the incurring of such debt, or the granting of such priority or lien, were stayed pending appeal.

(f) Except with respect to an entity that is an underwriter as defined in [section 1145(b) of this title](/us/usc/t11/s1145/b), section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and any State or local law requiring registration for offer or sale of a security or registration or licensing of an issuer of, underwriter of, or broker or dealer in, a security does not apply to the offer or sale under this section of a security that is not an equity security.

*([Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2574](/us/stat/92/2574); [Pub. L. 99–554, title II, § 257](/us/pl/99/554/tII/s257)(*l*), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3115](/us/stat/100/3115); [Pub. L. 103–394, title V, § 501(d)(9)](/us/pl/103/394/tV/s501/d/9), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4144](/us/stat/108/4144); [Pub. L. 116–54, § 4(a)(7)](/us/pl/116/54/s4/a/7), Aug. 23, 2019, [133 Stat. 1086](/us/stat/133/1086); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title III, § 320(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tIII/s320/a), (f)(2)(A)(i), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2015](/us/stat/134/2015), 2016.)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### legislative statements

Section 364(f) of the House amendment is new. This provision continues the exemption found in section 3(a)(7) of the Securities Act of 1933 [[15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(7)](/us/usc/t15/s77c/a/7)] for certificates of indebtedness issued by a trustee in bankruptcy. The exemption applies to any debt security issued under [section 364 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s364). The section does not intend to change present law which exempts such securities from the Trust Indenture Act, [15 U.S.C. 77aaa](/us/usc/t15/s77aaa), et seq. (1976).

#### senate report no. 95–989

This section is derived from provisions in current law governing certificates of indebtedness, but is much broader. It governs all obtaining of credit and incurring of debt by the estate.

Subsection (a) authorizes the obtaining of unsecured credit and the incurring of unsecured debt in the ordinary course of business if the business of the debtor is authorized to be operated under section 721, 1108, or 1304. The debts so incurred are allowable as administrative expenses under section 503(b)(1). The court may limit the estate’s ability to incur debt under this subsection.

Subsection (b) permits the court to authorize the trustee to obtain unsecured credit and incur unsecured debts other than in the ordinary course of business, such as in order to wind up a liquidation case, or to obtain a substantial loan in an operating case. Debt incurred under this subsection is allowable as an administrative expense under section 503(b)(1).

Subsection (c) is closer to the concept of certificates of indebtedness in current law. It authorizes the obtaining of credit and the incurring of debt with some special priority, if the trustee is unable to obtain unsecured credit under subsection (a) or (b). The various priorities are (1) with priority over any or all administrative expenses: (2) secured by a lien on unencumbered property of the estate; or (3) secured by a junior lien on encumbered property. The priorities granted under this subsection do not interfere with existing property rights.

Subsection (d) grants the court the authority to authorize the obtaining of credit and the incurring of debt with a superiority, that is a lien on encumbered property that is senior or equal to the existing lien on the property. The court may authorize such a superpriority only if the trustee is otherwise unable to obtain credit, and if there is adequate protection of the original lien holder’s interest. Again, the trustee has the burden of proof on the issue of adequate protection.

Subsection (e) provides the same protection for credit extenders pending an appeal of an authorization to incur debt as is provided under section 363(*l*) for purchasers: the credit is not affected on appeal by reversal of the authorization and the incurring of the debt were stayed pending appeal. The protection runs to a good faith lender, whether or not he knew of the pendency of the appeal.

A claim arising as a result of lending or borrowing under this section will be a priority claim, as defined in proposed section 507(a)(1), even if the claim is granted a super-priority over administrative expenses and is to be paid in advance of other first priority claims.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, referred to in subsec. (f), is classified to [section 77e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s77e), Commerce and Trade.

The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, referred to in subsec. (f), is title III of [act May 27, 1933, ch. 38](/us/act/1933-05-27/ch38), as added [Aug. 3, 1939, ch. 411](/us/act/1939-08-03/ch411), [53 Stat. 1149](/us/stat/53/1149), which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 77aaa et seq.) of chapter 2A of Title 15. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 77aaa of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s77aaa) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 320(f)(2)(A)(i)](/us/pl/116/260/s320/f/2/A/i), contingent on its addition by [Pub. L. 116–260, § 320(a)](/us/pl/116/260/s320/a), struck out subsec. (g) which read as follows:

“(g)(1) The court, after notice and a hearing, may authorize a debtor in possession or a trustee that is authorized to operate the business of the debtor under section 1183, 1184, 1203, 1204, or 1304 of this title to obtain a loan under paragraph (36) or (37) of section 7(a) of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 636(a)](/us/usc/t15/s636/a)), and such loan shall be treated as a debt to the extent the loan is not forgiven in accordance with section 7A of the Small Business Act or subparagraph (J) of such paragraph (37), as applicable, with priority equal to a claim of the kind specified in subsection (c)(1) of this section.

“(2) The trustee may incur debt described in paragraph (1) notwithstanding any provision in a contract, prior order authorizing the trustee to incur debt under this section, prior order authorizing the trustee to use cash collateral under section 363, or applicable law that prohibits the debtor from incurring additional debt.

“(3) The court shall hold a hearing within 7 days after the filing and service of the motion to obtain a loan described in paragraph (1). Notwithstanding the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, at such hearing, the court may grant relief on a final basis.”

[Pub. L. 116–260, § 320(a)](/us/pl/116/260/s320/a), added subsec. (g).

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–54](/us/pl/116/54) inserted “1183, 1184,” after “1108,”.

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–394, § 501(d)(9)(A)](/us/pl/103/394/s501/d/9/A), substituted “1203, 1204, or 1304” for “1304, 1203, or 1204”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 103–394, § 501(d)(9)(B)](/us/pl/103/394/s501/d/9/B), struck out “([15 U.S.C. 77e](/us/usc/t15/s77e))” after “Act of 1933” and “([15 U.S.C. 77aaa](/us/usc/t15/s77aaa) et seq.)” after “Act of 1939”.

1986—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–554](/us/pl/99/554) inserted reference to sections 1203 and 1204 of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2020 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title III, § 320(f)](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tIII/s320/f), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2016](/us/stat/134/2016), provided that: “(1) Effective date.—The amendments made by subsections (a) through (e) [amending this section and sections 503, 1191, 1225, and 1325 of this title] shall—“(A) take effect on the date on which the Administrator [of the Small Business Administration] submits to the Director of the Executive Office for United States Trustees a written determination that, subject to satisfying any other eligibility requirements, any debtor in possession or trustee that is authorized to operate the business of the debtor under section 1183, 1184, 1203, 1204, or 1304 of title 11, United States Code, would be eligible for a loan under paragraphs (36) and (37) of section 7(a) of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 636(a)](/us/usc/t15/s636/a)); and “(B) apply to any case pending on or commenced on or after the date described in subparagraph (A). “(2) Sunset.—“(A) In general.—If the amendments made by subsections (a) through (e) take effect under paragraph (1), effective on the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 27, 2020]—“(i) [section 364 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s364), United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (g); “(ii) [section 503(b) of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s503/b), United States Code, is amended—“(I) in paragraph (8)(B), by adding ‘and’ at the end; “(II) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘; and’ at the end and inserting a period; and “(III) by striking paragraph (10); “(iii) [section 1191 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s1191), United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (f); “(iv) [section 1225 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s1225), United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (d); and “(v) [section 1325 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s1325), United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (d). “(B) Applicability.—Notwithstanding the amendments made by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, if the amendments made by subsections (a) through (e) take effect under paragraph (1) of this subsection, such amendments shall apply to any case under title 11, United States Code, commenced before the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 27, 2020].”

[Pursuant to [15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)(A)(iii)](/us/usc/t15/s636/a/36/A/iii), the “covered period” for loans under the Paycheck Protection Program ended on June 30, 2021.]

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–54](/us/pl/116/54) effective 180 days after Aug. 23, 2019, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 116–54](/us/pl/116/54/s5), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–394](/us/pl/103/394) effective Oct. 22, 1994, and not applicable with respect to cases commenced under this title before Oct. 22, 1994, see [section 702 of Pub. L. 103–394](/us/pl/103/394/s702), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–554](/us/pl/99/554) effective 30 days after Oct. 27, 1986, but not applicable to cases commenced under this title before that date, see section 302(a), (c)(1) of [Pub. L. 99–554](/us/pl/99/554), set out as a note under [section 581 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s581), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
