---
title: "§ 3663. Tribal criminal assistance grants"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3663"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3663"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–559, title I, § 103](/us/pl/106/559/tI/s103), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2780](/us/stat/114/2780); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 242(b)(2)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s242/b/2), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2292](/us/stat/124/2292).)"
---
# § 3663. Tribal criminal assistance grants

##### § 3663. Tribal criminal assistance grants

Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Office of Tribal Justice, shall award grants to non-profit entities, as defined by [section 501(c)(3) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3), which provide legal assistance services for Indian tribes, members of Indian tribes, or tribal justice systems pursuant to Federal poverty guidelines that submit an application to the Attorney General in such form and manner as the Attorney General may prescribe for the provision of defense counsel services to all defendants in tribal court criminal proceedings and prosecution and judicial services for tribal courts, and/or other purposes consistent with this chapter. Funding under this subchapter may apply to programs, procedures, or proceedings involving adult criminal actions, juvenile delinquency actions, and/or guardian-ad-litem appointments arising out of criminal or delinquency acts.

*([Pub. L. 106–559, title I, § 103](/us/pl/106/559/tI/s103), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2780](/us/stat/114/2780); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 242(b)(2)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s242/b/2), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2292](/us/stat/124/2292).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211) substituted “defense counsel services to all defendants in tribal court criminal proceedings and prosecution and judicial services for tribal courts” for “criminal legal assistance to members of Indian tribes and tribal justice systems”.
