---
title: "§ 15106. National Offshore Safety Advisory Committee"
identifier: "USC-T46-S15106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section15106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4284](/us/stat/132/4284); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8331(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4702](/us/stat/134/4702).)"
---
# § 15106. National Offshore Safety Advisory Committee

##### § 15106. National Offshore Safety Advisory Committee

(a) Establishment.— There is established a National Offshore Safety Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(b) Function.— The Committee shall advise the Secretary on matters relating to activities directly involved with, or in support of, the exploration of offshore mineral and energy resources, to the extent that such matters are within the jurisdiction of the Coast Guard.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The Committee shall consist of 15 members appointed by the Secretary in accordance with this section and section 15109 of this chapter.

(2) Expertise.— Each member of the Committee shall have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters relating to the function of the Committee.

(3) Representation.— Members of the Committee shall be appointed as follows:

(A) 2 members shall represent entities engaged in the production of petroleum.

(B) 2 members shall represent entities engaged in offshore drilling.

(C) 2 members shall represent entities engaged in the support, by offshore supply vessels or other vessels, of offshore operations.

(D) 1 member shall represent entities engaged in the construction of offshore facilities.

(E) 1 member shall represent entities providing diving services to the offshore industry.

(F) 1 member shall represent entities providing safety and training services to the offshore industry.

(G) 1 member shall represent entities providing subsea engineering, construction, or remotely operated vehicle support to the offshore industry.

(H) 2 members shall represent individuals employed in offshore operations and, of the 2, 1 shall have recent practical experience on a vessel or offshore unit involved in the offshore industry.

(I) 1 member shall represent national environmental entities and entities providing environmental protection, compliance, or response services to the offshore industry.

(J) 1 member shall represent entities engaged in offshore oil exploration and production on the Outer Continental Shelf adjacent to Alaska.

(K) 1 member shall represent the general public (but not a specific environmental group).

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4284](/us/stat/132/4284); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8331(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4702](/us/stat/134/4702).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (c)(3)(C). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8331(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s8331/a/1), substituted “operations” for “mineral and oil operations, including geophysical services”.

Subsec. (c)(3)(D). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8331(a)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/s8331/a/2), struck out “exploration and recovery” before “facilities.”

Subsec. (c)(3)(E). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8331(a)(3)](/us/pl/116/283/s8331/a/3), substituted “providing diving services to the offshore industry” for “engaged in diving services related to offshore construction, inspection, and maintenance”.

Subsec. (c)(3)(F). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8331(a)(4)](/us/pl/116/283/s8331/a/4), substituted “providing safety and training services to the offshore industry” for “engaged in safety and training services related to offshore exploration and construction”.

Subsec. (c)(3)(G). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8331(a)(5)](/us/pl/116/283/s8331/a/5), substituted “providing subsea engineering, construction, or remotely operated vehicle support to the offshore industry” for “engaged in pipelaying services related to offshore construction”.

Subsec. (c)(3)(H). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8331(a)(6)](/us/pl/116/283/s8331/a/6), struck out “mineral and energy” before “industry.”

Subsec. (c)(3)(I). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8331(a)(7)](/us/pl/116/283/s8331/a/7), inserted “and entities providing environmental protection, compliance, or response services to the offshore industry” after “national environmental entities”.

Subsec. (c)(3)(J). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 8331(a)(8)](/us/pl/116/283/s8331/a/8), substituted “entities engaged in offshore oil exploration and production on the Outer Continental Shelf adjacent to Alaska” for “deepwater ports”.
