---
title: "§ 3004. Summary for unassociated funerary objects, sacred objects, and cultural patrimony"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3004"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3004"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–601, § 6](/us/pl/101/601/s6), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3053](/us/stat/104/3053).)"
---
# § 3004. Summary for unassociated funerary objects, sacred objects, and cultural patrimony

##### § 3004. Summary for unassociated funerary objects, sacred objects, and cultural patrimony

(a) In general Each Federal agency or museum which has possession or control over holdings or collections of Native American unassociated funerary objects, sacred objects, or objects of cultural patrimony shall provide a written summary of such objects based upon available information held by such agency or museum. The summary shall describe the scope of the collection, kinds of objects included, reference to geographical location, means and period of acquisition and cultural affiliation, where readily ascertainable.

(b) Requirements

(1) The summary required under subsection (a) shall be—

(A) in lieu of an object-by-object inventory;

(B) followed by consultation with tribal government and Native Hawaiian organization officials and traditional religious leaders; and

(C) completed by not later than the date that is 3 years after November 16, 1990.

(2) Upon request, Indian Tribes 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. and Native Hawaiian organizations shall have access to records, catalogues, relevant studies or other pertinent data for the limited purposes of determining the geographic origin, cultural affiliation, and basic facts surrounding acquisition and accession of Native American objects subject to this section. Such information shall be provided in a reasonable manner to be agreed upon by all parties.

*([Pub. L. 101–601, § 6](/us/pl/101/601/s6), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3053](/us/stat/104/3053).)*
