---
title: "§ 359. Rules and regulations"
identifier: "USC-T30-S359"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section359"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 513, § 10](/us/act/1947-08-07/ch513/s10), [61 Stat. 915](/us/stat/61/915).)"
---
# § 359. Rules and regulations

##### § 359. Rules and regulations

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to prescribe such rules and regulations as are necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this chapter, which rules and regulations shall be the same as those prescribed under the mineral leasing laws to the extent that they are applicable.

*([Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 513, § 10](/us/act/1947-08-07/ch513/s10), [61 Stat. 915](/us/stat/61/915).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For definition of “mineral leasing laws”, see [section 351 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s351).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Secretary of the Interior to promulgate regulations under this chapter relating to fostering of competition for Federal leases, implementation of alternative bidding systems authorized for award of Federal leases, establishment of diligence requirements for operations conducted on Federal leases, setting of rates for production of Federal leases, and specifying of procedures, terms, and conditions for acquisition and disposition of Federal royalty interests taken in kind, transferred to Secretary of Energy by [section 7152(b) of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7152/b), The Public Health and Welfare. [Section 7152(b) of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7152/b) was repealed by [Pub. L. 97–100, title II, § 201](/us/pl/97/100/tII/s201), Dec. 23, 1981, [95 Stat. 1407](/us/stat/95/1407), and functions of Secretary of Energy returned to Secretary of the Interior. See House Report No. 97–315, pp. 25, 26, Nov. 5, 1981.
