---
title: "§ 1671e. Assessment of duty"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1671e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1671e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 706, as added [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 101](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s101), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 160](/us/stat/93/160); amended [Pub. L. 98–573, title VI, § 607](/us/pl/98/573/tVI/s607), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3029](/us/stat/98/3029); [Pub. L. 99–514, title XVIII, § 1886(a)(5)](/us/pl/99/514/tXVIII/s1886/a/5), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2922](/us/stat/100/2922); [Pub. L. 103–465, title II](/us/pl/103/465/tII), §§ 218(b)(1), 233(a)(5"
---
# § 1671e. Assessment of duty

##### § 1671e. Assessment of duty

(a) Publication of countervailing duty order Within 7 days after being notified by the Commission of an affirmative determination under [section 1671d(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671d/b), the administering authority shall publish a countervailing duty order which—

(1) directs customs officers to assess a countervailing duty equal to the amount of the net countervailable subsidy determined or estimated to exist, within 6 months after the date on which the administering authority receives satisfactory information upon which the assessment may be based, but in no event later than 12 months after the end of the annual accounting period of the manufacturer or exporter within which the merchandise is entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption,

(2) includes a description of the subject merchandise, in such detail as the administering authority deems necessary, and

(3) requires the deposit of estimated countervailing duties pending liquidation of entries of merchandise at the same time as estimated normal customs duties on that merchandise are deposited.

(b) Imposition of duties

(1) General rule If the Commission, in its final determination under [section 1671d(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671d/b), finds material injury or threat of material injury which, but for the suspension of liquidation under [section 1671b(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671b/d/2), would have led to a finding of material injury, then entries of the merchandise subject to the countervailing duty order, the liquidation of which has been suspended under [section 1671b(d)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671b/d/2), shall be subject to the imposition of countervailing duties under [section 1671(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671/a).

(2) Special rule If the Commission, in its final determination under [section 1671d(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671d/b), finds threat of material injury, other than threat of material injury described in paragraph (1), or material retardation of the establishment of an industry in the United States, then merchandise subject to a countervailing duty order which is entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of notice of an affirmative determination of the Commission under [section 1671d(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671d/b) shall be subject to the imposition of countervailing duties under [section 1671(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671/a), and the administering authority shall release any bond or other security, and refund any cash deposit made, to secure the payment of countervailing duties with respect to entries of the merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption before that date.

(c) Special rule for regional industries

(1) In general In an investigation under this part in which the Commission makes a regional industry determination under [section 1677(4)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1677/4/C), the administering authority shall, to the maximum extent possible, direct that duties be assessed only on the subject merchandise of the specific exporters or producers that exported the subject merchandise for sale in the region concerned during the period of investigation.

(2) Exception for new exporters and producers After publication of the countervailing duty order, if the administering authority finds that a new exporter or producer is exporting the subject merchandise for sale in the region concerned, the administering authority shall direct that duties be assessed on the subject merchandise of the new exporter or producer consistent with the provisions of [section 1675(a)(2)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1675/a/2/B).

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 706, as added [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 101](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s101), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 160](/us/stat/93/160); amended [Pub. L. 98–573, title VI, § 607](/us/pl/98/573/tVI/s607), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3029](/us/stat/98/3029); [Pub. L. 99–514, title XVIII, § 1886(a)(5)](/us/pl/99/514/tXVIII/s1886/a/5), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2922](/us/stat/100/2922); [Pub. L. 103–465, title II](/us/pl/103/465/tII), §§ 218(b)(1), 233(a)(5)(O), 264(c)(9), 265, 270(a)(1)(H), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4855](/us/stat/108/4855), 4899, 4914, 4917.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 103–465, § 270(a)(1)(H)](/us/pl/103/465/s270/a/1/H), substituted “countervailable subsidy” for “subsidy”.

Subsec. (a)(2) to (4). [Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465), §§ 233(a)(5)(O), 265, redesignated par. (3) as (2) and substituted “subject merchandise” for “class or kind of merchandise to which it applies”, redesignated par. (4) as (3), and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows:

“(2) shall presumptively apply to all merchandise of such class or kind exported from the country investigated, except that if—

“(A) the administering authority determines there is a significant differential between companies receiving subsidy benefits, or

“(B) a State-owned enterprise is involved,

the order may provide for differing countervailing duties,”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 103–465, § 264(c)(9)](/us/pl/103/465/s264/c/9), substituted “1671b(d)(2)” for “1671b(d)(1)” in two places.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 103–465, § 218(b)(1)](/us/pl/103/465/s218/b/1), added subsec. (c).

1986—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) realigned the margins in provisions following subpar. (B), which realignment had been editorially supplied, thereby requiring no change in text.

1984—Subsec. (a)(2) to (4). [Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573) added par. (2) and redesignated pars. (2) and (3) as (3) and (4), respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465) effective, except as otherwise provided, on the date on which the WTO Agreement enters into force with respect to the United States (Jan. 1, 1995), and applicable with respect to investigations, reviews, and inquiries initiated and petitions filed under specified provisions of this chapter after such date, see [section 291 of Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465/s291), set out as a note under [section 1671 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671).

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573) effective Oct. 30, 1984, see [section 626(a) of Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573/s626/a), set out as a note under [section 1671 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671).

#### Plan Amendments Not Required Until January 1, 1989

For provisions directing that if any amendments made by subtitle A or subtitle C of title XI [§§ 1101–1147 and 1171–1177] or title XVIII [§§ 1801–1899A] of [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) require an amendment to any plan, such plan amendment shall not be required to be made before the first plan year beginning on or after Jan. 1, 1989, see [section 1140 of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s1140), as amended, set out as a note under [section 401 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s401), Internal Revenue Code.
