---
title: "§ 7813. Radio broadcasting to North Korea"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7813"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7813"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–333, title I, § 103](/us/pl/108/333/tI/s103), Oct. 18, 2004, [118 Stat. 1291](/us/stat/118/1291); [Pub. L. 115–198, § 4](/us/pl/115/198/s4), July 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 1521](/us/stat/132/1521).)"
---
# § 7813. Radio broadcasting to North Korea

##### § 7813. Radio broadcasting to North Korea

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that the United States should—

(1) facilitate the unhindered dissemination of information in North Korea by increasing its support for broadcasting, including news rebroadcasting, to North Korea, and that the Broadcasting Board of Governors should increase such broadcasts, including news rebroadcasts, to North Korea from current levels, with a goal of providing 12-hour-per-day broadcasting to North Korea, including broadcasts by Radio Free Asia and Voice of America; and

(2) expand funding for nongovernmental organization broadcasting efforts, prioritizing organizations that engage North Korean defectors in programming and broadcast services.

(b) Report Not later than 120 days after October 18, 2004, the Broadcasting Board of Governors shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that—

(1) describes the status of current United States broadcasting to North Korea; and

(2) outlines a plan for increasing such broadcasts to 12 hours per day, including a detailed description of the technical and fiscal requirements necessary to implement the plan.

*([Pub. L. 108–333, title I, § 103](/us/pl/108/333/tI/s103), Oct. 18, 2004, [118 Stat. 1291](/us/stat/118/1291); [Pub. L. 115–198, § 4](/us/pl/115/198/s4), July 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 1521](/us/stat/132/1521).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–198, § 4(1)](/us/pl/115/198/s4/1), (3), substituted “United States should—” for “United States should”, inserted par. (1) designation before “facilitate”, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–198, § 4(2)](/us/pl/115/198/s4/2), substituted “broadcasting, including news rebroadcasting,” for “radio broadcasting”, “increase such broadcasts, including news rebroadcasts,” for “increase broadcasts”, and “Voice of America; and” for “Voice of America.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Broadcasting Board of Governors renamed United States Agency for Global Media pursuant to [section 6204(a)(21) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6204/a/21). The renaming was effectuated by notice to congressional appropriations committees dated May 24, 2018, and became effective Aug. 22, 2018.
