---
title: "§ 104. Annual reports by trustees"
identifier: "USC-T20-S104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1879, ch. 186, § 4](/us/act/1879-03-03/ch186/s4), [20 Stat. 469](/us/stat/20/469); [June 25, 1906, ch. 3536](/us/act/1906-06-25/ch3536), [34 Stat. 460](/us/stat/34/460); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 201(b), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2732, [53 Stat. 1434](/us/stat/53/1434); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, § 5, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631); [Pub. L. 91–230, title VIII, § 811(c)](/us/pl/91/230/tVIII/s811/c), Apr. 13, 1970, [84 Stat. 195](/us/stat/84/195); [Pub. "
---
# § 104. Annual reports by trustees

##### § 104. Annual reports by trustees

The trustees of said American Printing House for the Blind shall annually make to the Secretary of Education a report of the items of their expenditure of the appropriation aforesaid during the year preceding their report, and shall annually furnish him with a voucher from each public or private nonprofit institution for the education of the blind, showing that the amount of books and tangible apparatus due has been received.

*([Mar. 3, 1879, ch. 186, § 4](/us/act/1879-03-03/ch186/s4), [20 Stat. 469](/us/stat/20/469); [June 25, 1906, ch. 3536](/us/act/1906-06-25/ch3536), [34 Stat. 460](/us/stat/34/460); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 201(b), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2732, [53 Stat. 1434](/us/stat/53/1434); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, § 5, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631); [Pub. L. 91–230, title VIII, § 811(c)](/us/pl/91/230/tVIII/s811/c), Apr. 13, 1970, [84 Stat. 195](/us/stat/84/195); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(2)(M)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/2/M), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 678](/us/stat/93/678), 692.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The word “appropriation” substituted in text for “income” to conform to the modification of act Mar. 3, 1879, by act June 25, 1906, as shown in the note set out under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s101).

#### Amendments

1970—[Pub. L. 91–230](/us/pl/91/230) made provision applicable to a private nonprofit institution.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Education” substituted in text for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to sections 301(a)(2)(M) and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441(a)(2)(M) and 3507 of this title and which transferred functions of Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under this chapter to Secretary of Education.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Federal Security Administrator transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and all agencies of Federal Security Agency transferred to Department of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 5 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953, set out in Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Federal Security Agency and office of Administrator abolished by section 8 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953.

Functions of Secretary of the Treasury over administration of appropriations for American Printing House for Blind (except function relating to administration of perpetual trust fund) transferred to Federal Security Agency, and annual report and vouchers of trustees directed to be furnished to Federal Security Administrator by Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, § 201(b), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2732, [53 Stat. 1434](/us/stat/53/1434), set out in the Appendix to Title 5.
