---
title: "§ 755. Salmon-cultural stations; establishment; expenditure of funds"
identifier: "USC-T16-S755"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section755"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([May 11, 1938, ch. 193, § 1](/us/act/1938-05-11/ch193/s1), [52 Stat. 345](/us/stat/52/345); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(e), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090).)"
---
# § 755. Salmon-cultural stations; establishment; expenditure of funds

##### § 755. Salmon-cultural stations; establishment; expenditure of funds

The Secretary of Commerce is authorized and directed to establish one or more salmon-cultural stations in the Columbia River Basin in each of the States of Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. Any sums appropriated for the purpose of establishing such stations may be expended, and such stations shall be established, operated and maintained, in accordance with the provisions of the Act entitled “An Act to provide for a five-year construction and maintenance program for the United States Bureau of Fisheries”, approved [May 21, 1930, ch. 306](/us/act/1930-05-21/ch306), [46 Stat. 371](/us/stat/46/371), insofar as the provisions of such Act are not inconsistent with the provisions of this section and sections 756 and 757 of this title.

*([May 11, 1938, ch. 193, § 1](/us/act/1938-05-11/ch193/s1), [52 Stat. 345](/us/stat/52/345); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(e), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Act May 21, 1930, ch. 306](/us/act/1930-05-21/ch306), [46 Stat. 371](/us/stat/46/371), referred to in text, was not classified to the Code.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Secretary of Commerce substituted for Secretary of the Interior in view of: creation of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Department of Commerce and Office of Administrator of such Administration; abolition of Bureau of Commercial Fisheries in Department of the Interior and Office of Director of such Bureau; transfers of functions, including functions formerly vested by law in Secretary of the Interior or Department of the Interior which were administered through Bureau of Commercial Fisheries or were primarily related to such Bureau, exclusive of certain enumerated functions with respect to Great Lakes fishery research, Missouri River Reservoir research, Gulf Breeze Biological Laboratory, and Trans-Alaska pipeline investigations; and transfer of marine sport fish program of Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5.

Reorg. Plan No. III of 1940, § 3, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2108, [54 Stat. 1232](/us/stat/54/1232), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, consolidated Bureau of Fisheries and Bureau of Biological Survey with their respective functions into one agency in Department of the Interior to be known as Fish and Wildlife Service, and provided that functions of consolidated agency shall be administered under direction and supervision of Secretary of the Interior.

Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, transferred Bureau of Fisheries in Department of Commerce and its functions to Department of the Interior, to be administered under direction and supervision of Secretary of the Interior.
