---
title: "§ 10225. Sunset"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10225"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10225"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5574](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5574), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3368](/us/stat/136/3368).)"
---
# § 10225. Sunset

##### § 10225. Sunset

(a) In general The authority to impose sanctions and the sanctions imposed under this subchapter shall terminate on the date that is 8 years after December 23, 2022.

(b) Certification for early sunset of sanctions Sanctions imposed under this subchapter may be removed before the date specified in subsection (a), if the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees a certification that—

(1) the Burmese military has released all political prisoners taken into custody on or after February 1, 2021, or is providing legal recourse to those that remain in custody;

(2) the elected government of Burma has been reinstated or new free and fair elections have been held;

(3) all legal charges against those winning election in November 2020 are dropped; and

(4) the 2008 constitution of Burma has been amended or replaced to place the Burmese military under civilian oversight and ensure that the Burmese military no longer automatically receives 25 percent of seats in Burma’s state, regional, and national Hluttaws.

(c) Notification for early sunset of sanctions on individuals

(1) In general The President may terminate the application of sanctions under this subchapter with respect to specific individuals if the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees—

(A) a notice of and justification for the termination; and

(B) a notice that the individual is not engaging in the activity or is no longer occupying the position that was the basis for the sanctions or has taken significant verifiable steps toward stopping the activity.

(2) Form The notice required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5574](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5574), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3368](/us/stat/136/3368).)*
