---
title: "§ 300mm–23. National arrangement for benefits for eligible individuals outside New York"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300mm–23"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300mm–23"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3313, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3647](/us/stat/124/3647).)"
---
# § 300mm–23. National arrangement for benefits for eligible individuals outside New York

##### § 300mm–23. National arrangement for benefits for eligible individuals outside New York

(a) In general In order to ensure reasonable access to benefits under this part for individuals who are enrolled WTC responders, screening-eligible WTC survivors, or certified-eligible WTC survivors and who reside in any State, as defined in [section 201(f) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201/f), outside the New York metropolitan area, the WTC Program Administrator shall establish a nationwide network of health care providers to provide monitoring and treatment benefits and initial health evaluations near such individuals’ areas of residence in such States. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as preventing such individuals from being provided such monitoring and treatment benefits or initial health evaluation through any Clinical Center of Excellence.

(b) Network requirements Any health care provider participating in the network under subsection (a) shall—

(1) meet criteria for credentialing established by the Data Centers;

(2) follow the monitoring, initial health evaluation, and treatment protocols developed under [section 300mm–4(a)(2)(A)(ii) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–4/a/2/A/ii);

(3) collect and report data in accordance with [section 300mm–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–3); and

(4) meet such fraud, quality assurance, and other requirements as the WTC Program Administrator establishes, including sections 1320a–7 through 1320a–7e of this title, as applied by [section 300mm(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm/d).

(c) Training and technical assistance The WTC Program Administer 11 So in original. Probably should be “Administrator”. may provide, including through contract, for the provision of training and technical assistance to health care providers participating in the network under subsection (a).

(d) Provision of services through the VA

(1) In general The WTC Program Administrator may enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the Secretary to provide services under this section through facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

(2) National program Not later than July 1, 2011, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report on whether the Department of Veterans Affairs can provide monitoring and treatment services to individuals under this section more efficiently and effectively than through the nationwide network to be established under subsection (a).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3313, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3647](/us/stat/124/3647).)*
