---
title: "§ 290bb–45. Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders for education and training on eating disorders"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290bb–45"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290bb–45"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 520N, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1131](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1131), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5655](/us/stat/136/5655).)"
---
# § 290bb–45. Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders for education and training on eating disorders

##### § 290bb–45. Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders for education and training on eating disorders

(a) In general The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary, shall maintain, by competitive grant or contract, a Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders (referred to in this section as the “Center”) to improve the identification of, interventions for, and treatment of eating disorders in a manner that is developmentally, culturally, and linguistically appropriate.

(b) Subgrants and subcontracts The Center shall coordinate and implement the activities under subsection (c), in whole or in part, which may include by awarding competitive subgrants or subcontracts—

(1) across geographical regions; and

(2) in a manner that is not duplicative.

(c) Activities The Center—

(1) shall—

(A) provide training and technical assistance, including for—

(i) primary care and mental health providers to carry out screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment for individuals experiencing, or at risk for, eating disorders; and

(ii) other paraprofessionals and relevant individuals providing nonclinical community services to identify and support individuals with, or at disproportionate risk for, eating disorders;

(B) facilitate the development of, and provide training materials to, health care providers (including primary care and mental health professionals) regarding the effective treatment and ongoing support of individuals with eating disorders, including children and marginalized populations at disproportionate risk for eating disorders;

(C) collaborate and coordinate, as appropriate, with other centers of excellence, technical assistance centers, and psychiatric consultation lines of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and the Health Resources and Services Administration regarding eating disorders;

(D) coordinate with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, and other Federal agencies, as appropriate, to disseminate training to primary care and mental health care providers; and

(E) support other activities, as determined appropriate by the Secretary; and

(2) may—

(A) support the integration of protocols pertaining to screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment for individuals experiencing, or at risk for, eating disorders, with health information technology systems;

(B) develop and provide training materials to health care providers, including primary care and mental health providers, to provide screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment for members of the military and veterans experiencing, or at risk for, eating disorders; and

(C) consult, as appropriate, with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on prevention, identification, intervention for, and treatment of eating disorders.

(d) Authorization of appropriations To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 520N, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1131](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1131), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5655](/us/stat/136/5655).)*
