---
title: "§ 3539a. Department of Housing and Urban Development Nonrecurring Expenses Fund"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3539a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3539a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–42, div. F, title II, § 235](/us/pl/118/42/dF/tII/s235), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 384](/us/stat/138/384).)"
---
# § 3539a. Department of Housing and Urban Development Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

##### § 3539a. Department of Housing and Urban Development Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the “Department of Housing and Urban Development Nonrecurring Expenses Fund” (the Fund): *Provided*, That unobligated balances of expired discretionary funds appropriated for this or any succeeding fiscal year from the General Fund of the Treasury to the Department of Housing and Urban Development by this or any other Act may be transferred (not later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes for which they were appropriated) into the Fund: *Provided further*, That amounts deposited in the Fund shall be available until expended, in addition to such other funds as may be available for such purposes, for capital needs of the Department, including facilities infrastructure and information technology infrastructure, subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget: *Provided further*, That amounts in the Fund may be obligated only after the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified at least 15 days in advance of the planned use of funds.

*([Pub. L. 118–42, div. F, title II, § 235](/us/pl/118/42/dF/tII/s235), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 384](/us/stat/138/384).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2024, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024, and not as part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act which comprises this chapter.
