---
title: "§ 1812. Issuance of certificate of registration"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1812"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1812"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–470, title I, § 102](/us/pl/97/470/tI/s102), Jan. 14, 1983, [96 Stat. 2587](/us/stat/96/2587).)"
---
# § 1812. Issuance of certificate of registration

##### § 1812. Issuance of certificate of registration

(1) a declaration, subscribed and sworn to by the applicant, stating the applicant’s permanent place of residence, the farm labor contracting activities for which the certificate is requested, and such other relevant information as the Secretary may require;

(2) a statement identifying each vehicle to be used to transport any migrant or seasonal agricultural worker and, if the vehicle is or will be owned or controlled by the applicant, documentation showing that the applicant is in compliance with the requirements of [section 1841 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1841) with respect to each such vehicle;

(3) a statement identifying each facility or real property to be used to house any migrant agricultural worker and, if the facility or real property is or will be owned or controlled by the applicant, documentation showing that the applicant is in compliance with [section 1823 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1823) with respect to each such facility or real property;

(4) a set of fingerprints of the applicant; and

(5) a declaration, subscribed and sworn to by the applicant, consenting to the designation by a court of the Secretary as an agent available to accept service of summons in any action against the applicant, if the applicant has left the jurisdiction in which the action is commenced or otherwise has become unavailable to accept service.

*([Pub. L. 97–470, title I, § 102](/us/pl/97/470/tI/s102), Jan. 14, 1983, [96 Stat. 2587](/us/stat/96/2587).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days from Jan. 14, 1983, see [section 524 of Pub. L. 97–470](/us/pl/97/470/s524), set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1801).
