---
title: "§ 1715. Firearms as nonmailable; regulations"
identifier: "USC-T18-S1715"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section1715"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 781](/us/stat/62/781); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 40](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s40), [63 Stat. 95](/us/stat/63/95); [Pub. L. 91–375, § 6(j)(24)](/us/pl/91/375/s6/j/24), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 779](/us/stat/84/779); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(H)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/H), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147); [Pub. L. 104–294, title VI, § 607(f)](/us/pl/104/294/tVI/s607/f), Oct. 11, 1996, [1"
---
# § 1715. Firearms as nonmailable; regulations

##### § 1715. Firearms as nonmailable; regulations

Pistols, revolvers, and other firearms capable of being concealed on the person are nonmailable and shall not be deposited in or carried by the mails or delivered by any officer or employee of the Postal Service. Such articles may be conveyed in the mails, under such regulations as the Postal Service shall prescribe, for use in connection with their official duty, to officers of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, Space Force, or Organized Reserve Corps; to officers of the National Guard or Militia of a State, Territory, Commonwealth, Possession, or District; to officers of the United States or of a State, Territory, Commonwealth, Possession, or District whose official duty is to serve warrants of arrest or commitments; to employees of the Postal Service; to officers and employees of enforcement agencies of the United States; and to watchmen engaged in guarding the property of the United States, a State, Territory, Commonwealth, Possession, or District. Such articles also may be conveyed in the mails to manufacturers of firearms or bona fide dealers therein in customary trade shipments, including such articles for repairs or replacement of parts, from one to the other, under such regulations as the Postal Service shall prescribe.

Whoever knowingly deposits for mailing or delivery, or knowingly causes to be delivered by mail according to the direction thereon, or at any place to which it is directed to be delivered by the person to whom it is addressed, any pistol, revolver, or firearm declared nonmailable by this section, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than two years, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 781](/us/stat/62/781); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 40](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s40), [63 Stat. 95](/us/stat/63/95); [Pub. L. 91–375, § 6(j)(24)](/us/pl/91/375/s6/j/24), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 779](/us/stat/84/779); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(H)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/H), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147); [Pub. L. 104–294, title VI, § 607(f)](/us/pl/104/294/tVI/s607/f), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3511](/us/stat/110/3511); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 927(c)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s927/c), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3831](/us/stat/134/3831).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### 1948 Act

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 361 ([Feb. 8, 1927, ch. 75, § 1](/us/act/1927-02-08/ch75/s1), [44 Stat. 1059](/us/stat/44/1059); [May 15, 1939, ch. 134](/us/act/1939-05-15/ch134), [53 Stat. 744](/us/stat/53/744); [Mar. 7, 1942, ch. 160](/us/act/1942-03-07/ch160), [56 Stat. 141](/us/stat/56/141)).

Reference to persons causing or procuring was omitted as unnecessary in view of definition of “principal” in [section 2 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s2).

Minor changes were made in phraseology.

#### 1949 Act

This section [section 40] inserts “Air Force,” in [section 1715 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1715), U.S.C., in view of the establishment in 1947 of this separate branch of the armed forces, and substitutes, “Organized” for “Officers’ ”, preceding “Reserve Corps”, to conform to [section 2 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2), U.S.C., as amended by the act of March 25, 1948 (ch. 157, § 1, [62 Stat. 87](/us/stat/62/87)), which grouped all reserve branches into a reserve component called the Organized Reserve Corps.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) inserted “Space Force,” after “Marine Corps,”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–294](/us/pl/104/294), in first par., substituted “State, Territory, Commonwealth, Possession, or District” for “State, Territory, or District” wherever appearing.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $1,000” in second par.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375) substituted “Postal Service” for “Postmaster General” after “such regulations as the” in two places and “officer or employee of” for “postmaster, letter carrier, or other person in” in first par., respectively.

1949—Act May 24, 1949, inserted “Air Force” after “Navy” and substituted “Organized” for “Officers’ ” before “Reserve Corps” in first par., to make section applicable to the Air Force and to conform to the grouping of all reserve branches into a single reserve component.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375) effective within 1 year after Aug. 12, 1970, on date established therefor by Board of Governors of United States Postal Service and published by it in Federal Register, see [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375/s15/a), set out as an Effective Date note preceding [section 101 of Title 39](/us/usc/t39/s101), Postal Service.
