---
title: "§ 40306. Exclusive right to name, insignia, copyrights, emblems, badges, marks, and words"
identifier: "USC-T36-S40306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section40306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1332](/us/stat/112/1332).)"
---
# § 40306. Exclusive right to name, insignia, copyrights, emblems, badges, marks, and words

##### § 40306. Exclusive right to name, insignia, copyrights, emblems, badges, marks, and words

The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name “Civil Air Patrol” and all insignia, copyrights, emblems, badges, descriptive or designating marks, words, and phrases the corporation adopts. This section does not affect any vested rights.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1332](/us/stat/112/1332).)*

The word “sole” is omitted as included in “exclusive”. The words “right to use the name ‘Civil Air Patrol’ and all” are substituted for “right to the name ‘Civil Air Patrol’ and to have and to use, in carrying out its purposes, all” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “the corporation adopts” are substituted for “now or heretofore used by the Civil Air Patrol” in [section 6 of the Act of July 1, 1946](/us/act/1946-07-01/s6) (ch. 527, [60 Stat. 347](/us/stat/60/347)) for consistency in the revised title. The words “in carrying out its program” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “This section does not affect any vested rights” are substituted for “*Provided, however*, That no powers or privileges herein granted shall interfere or conflict with established or vested rights” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40306 | 36:206. | July 1, 1946, ch. 527, § 6, 60 Stat. 347. |
