---
title: "§ 2315b. Transparency and accountability in cost sharing for water resources development projects"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2315b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2315b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1120](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1120), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3777](/us/stat/132/3777).)"
---
# § 2315b. Transparency and accountability in cost sharing for water resources development projects

##### § 2315b. Transparency and accountability in cost sharing for water resources development projects

(a) Definition of balance sheet In this section, the term “balance sheet” means a document that describes—

(1) the funds provided by each Federal and non-Federal interest for a water resources development project; and

(2) the status of those funds.

(b) Establishment of balance sheet Each district of the Corps of Engineers shall, using the authority of the Secretary under [section 2315 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2315)—

(1) maintain a balance sheet for each water resources development project carried out by the Secretary for which a non-Federal cost share is required; and

(2) on request of a non-Federal interest that provided funds for the project, provide to the non-Federal interest a copy of the balance sheet.

(c) Under-budget projects In the case of a water resources development project carried out by the Secretary that is completed at a cost less than the estimated cost, the Secretary shall transfer any excess non-Federal funds to the non-Federal interest in accordance with the cost-share requirement applicable to the project.

*([Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1120](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1120), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3777](/us/stat/132/3777).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018, and also as part of the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 102 of Pub. L. 115–270](/us/pl/115/270/s102), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
