---
title: "§ 7643. Distribution of farmers’ bulletins"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7643"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7643"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([June 30, 1906, ch. 3913](/us/act/1906-06-30/ch3913), [34 Stat. 690](/us/stat/34/690).)"
---
# § 7643. Distribution of farmers’ bulletins

##### § 7643. Distribution of farmers’ bulletins

In the distribution of farmers’ bulletins, which shall be adapted to the interests of the people of the different sections of the country, an equal proportion of four-fifths shall be delivered to or sent out under the addressed franks furnished by Senators, Representatives, and Delegates in Congress, as such Senators, Representatives, or Delegates shall direct: *Provided*, That the Secretary of Agriculture shall notify Senators, Representatives, and Delegates in Congress of the title and character of each such bulletin, with the total number to which each Senator, Representative, and Delegate may be entitled for such distribution; and on the face of the envelope inclosing said bulletins shall be printed the title of each bulletin contained therein.

*([June 30, 1906, ch. 3913](/us/act/1906-06-30/ch3913), [34 Stat. 690](/us/stat/34/690).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 417 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s417) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was enacted as part of [act June 30, 1906, ch. 3913](/us/act/1906-06-30/ch3913), and not as part of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998, which in part comprises this chapter.

Section is derived from an Appropriation Act for the Department of Agriculture, 1907. The last proviso of section relating to farmers’ bulletins not called for in quotas of Senators and Representatives was omitted from the Code as obsolete in view of Attorney General’s opinion, 27 Op. Atty. Gen. 288.
