---
title: "§ 8956. Election of coverage"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8956"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8956"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–496, § 2](/us/pl/108/496/s2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 4004](/us/stat/118/4004); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XI, § 1111(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXI/s1111/a/1), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1600](/us/stat/133/1600).)"
---
# § 8956. Election of coverage

##### § 8956. Election of coverage

(a) An eligible individual may enroll in a dental benefits plan for self-only, self plus one, or for self and family. If an eligible individual has a spouse who is also eligible to enroll, either spouse, but not both, may enroll for self plus one or self and family. An individual may not be enrolled both as an employee, annuitant, or other individual eligible to enroll and as a member of the family.

(b) The Office shall prescribe regulations under which—

(1) an eligible individual may enroll in a dental benefits plan; and

(2) an enrolled individual may change the self-only, self plus one, or self and family coverage of that individual.

(c)

(1) Regulations under subsection (b) shall permit an eligible individual to cancel or transfer the enrollment of that individual to another dental benefits plan—

(A) before the start of any contract term in which there is a change in rates charged or benefits provided, in which a new plan is offered, or in which an existing plan is terminated; or

(B) during other times and under other circumstances specified by the Office.

(2) A transfer under paragraph (1) shall be subject to waiting periods provided under a new plan.

(d) Coverage under a dental benefits plan under this chapter for any employee or a covered TRICARE-eligible individual enrolled in such a plan and who, as a result of a lapse in appropriations, is furloughed or excepted from furlough and working without pay shall continue during such lapse and may not be cancelled as a result of nonpayment of premiums or other periodic charges due to such lapse.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–496, § 2](/us/pl/108/496/s2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 4004](/us/stat/118/4004); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XI, § 1111(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXI/s1111/a/1), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1600](/us/stat/133/1600).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) added subsec. (d)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XI, § 1111(c)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXI/s1111/c), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1601](/us/stat/133/1601), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section and sections 8986 and 9003 of this title] shall apply to any contract for supplemental dental, supplemental vision, or long-term care insurance under chapter 89A, 89B, or 90 (respectively) of title 5, United States Code, entered into before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 20, 2019].”

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 23, 2004, and applicable to contracts that take effect with respect to the calendar year 2006, see [section 7 of Pub. L. 108–496](/us/pl/108/496/s7), set out as a note under [section 8951 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8951).

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XI, § 1111(b)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXI/s1111/b), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1601](/us/stat/133/1601), provided that: “(1) In general.—Consistent with paragraph (2), the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe regulations under which premiums for supplemental dental, supplemental vision, or long-term care insurance under chapter 89A, 89B, or 90 (respectively) of title 5, United States Code, (as amended by subsection (a)) that are unpaid by an employee, a covered TRICARE-eligible individual, or a member of the uniformed services (as the case may be), as a result of that employee, covered TRICARE-eligible individual, or member being furloughed or excepted from furlough and working without pay as a result of a lapse in appropriations, are paid to the applicable carrier from back pay made available to the employee or member as soon as practicable upon the end of such lapse. “(2) Long-term care premiums from source other than backpay.—The regulations promulgated under paragraph (1) for the amendments made by subsection (a)(3) [amending [section 9003 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s9003)] may provide, with respect to any individual who elected under [section 9004(d) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s9004/d), United States Code, to pay premiums directly to the carrier, that such individual may continue to pay premiums pursuant to such election instead of from back pay made available to such individual.”
