---
title: "§ 12552. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12552"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12552"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title XX, § 200103](/us/pl/103/322/tXX/s200103), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2049](/us/stat/108/2049); [Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101[(a)]](/us/pl/104/134/tI/s101) [title I, § 121], Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/110/1321), 1321–22; renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a)](/us/pl/104/140/s1/a), May 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1327](/us/stat/110/1327); [Pub. L. 105–244, title I, § 102(a)(13)(O)](/us/pl/105/244/tI/s102/a/13/O), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1621](/us/stat/112"
---
# § 12552. Definitions

##### § 12552. Definitions

In this part—

- “academic year” means a traditional academic year beginning in August or September and ending in the following May or June.

- “dependent child” means a natural or adopted child or stepchild of a law enforcement officer who at the time of the officer’s death—

- (A) was no more than 21 years old; or

- (B) if older than 21 years, was in fact dependent on the child’s parents for at least one-half of the child’s support (excluding educational expenses), as determined by the Director.

- “Director” means the Director of the Office of the Police Corps and Law Enforcement Education appointed under section 12553 11 So in original. [Section 12553 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12553) does not provide for the appointment of a Director. of this title.

- “educational expenses” means expenses that are directly attributable to a course of education leading to the award of either a baccalaureate or graduate degree in a course of study which, in the judgment of the State or local police force to which the participant will be assigned, includes appropriate preparation for police service including the cost of tuition, fees, books, supplies, transportation, room and board and miscellaneous expenses.

- “institution of higher education” has the meaning stated in the first sentence of [section 1001 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

- “participant” means a participant in the Police Corps program selected pursuant to section 12555 22 So in original. Probably should be section “12556”. of this title.

- “State” means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

- “State Police Corps program” means a State police corps program that meets the requirements of [section 12559 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12559).

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title XX, § 200103](/us/pl/103/322/tXX/s200103), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2049](/us/stat/108/2049); [Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101[(a)]](/us/pl/104/134/tI/s101) [title I, § 121], Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/110/1321), 1321–22; renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a)](/us/pl/104/140/s1/a), May 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1327](/us/stat/110/1327); [Pub. L. 105–244, title I, § 102(a)(13)(O)](/us/pl/105/244/tI/s102/a/13/O), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1621](/us/stat/112/1621).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14092 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14092), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1998—[Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) substituted “section 1001” for “section 1141(a)” in par. defining “institution of higher education”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–134](/us/pl/104/134) amended generally par. defining “education expenses”. Prior to amendment, par. read as follows: “ ‘educational expenses’ means expenses that are directly attributable to—

“(A) a course of education leading to the award of the baccalaureate degree in legal- or criminal justice-related studies; or

“(B) a course of graduate study legal or criminal justice studies following award of a baccalaureate degree,

including the cost of tuition, fees, books, supplies, transportation, room and board and miscellaneous expenses.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as a note under [section 1001 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001), Education.
