---
title: "§ 101701. Challenge cost-share agreement authority"
identifier: "USC-T54-S101701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section101701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3134](/us/stat/128/3134); [Pub. L. 113–40, § 10(c)](/us/pl/113/40/s10/c), Oct. 2, 2013, [127 Stat. 546](/us/stat/127/546).)"
---
# § 101701. Challenge cost-share agreement authority

##### § 101701. Challenge cost-share agreement authority

(a) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Challenge cost-share agreement.— The term “challenge cost-share agreement” means any agreement entered into between the Secretary and any cooperator for the purpose of sharing costs or services in carrying out authorized functions and responsibilities of the Secretary with respect to any System unit or System program, any affiliated area, or any designated national scenic trail or national historic trail.

(2) Cooperator.— The term “cooperator” means any State or local government, public or private agency, organization, institution, corporation, individual, or other entity.

(b) Authority To Enter Into Challenge Cost-Share Agreements.— The Secretary may negotiate and enter into challenge cost-share agreements with cooperators.

(c) Source of Federal Share.— In carrying out challenge cost-share agreements, the Secretary may provide the Federal funding share from any funds available to the Service.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3134](/us/stat/128/3134); [Pub. L. 113–40, § 10(c)](/us/pl/113/40/s10/c), Oct. 2, 2013, [127 Stat. 546](/us/stat/127/546).)*

#### Amendment Not Shown in Text

This section was derived from [section 1f of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1f), Conservation, which was amended by [Pub. L. 113–40, § 10(c)](/us/pl/113/40/s10/c), Oct. 2, 2013, [127 Stat. 546](/us/stat/127/546). For applicability of that amendment to this section, see [section 6(b) of Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287/s6/b), set out as a Transitional and Savings Provisions note preceding [section 100101 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s100101). Former [section 1f of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1f), which consisted of pars. (1) to (3) [restated in this section as subsecs. (a) to (c)], was amended by [Pub. L. 113–40](/us/pl/113/40) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs: “(4)*Available funds**.—**Out of any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $20,000,000 shall be made available to the Secretary of the Interior for fiscal year 2018, and $30,000,000 shall be made available to the Secretary of the Interior for fiscal year 2019, without further appropriation and to remain available until expended, to pay the Federal funding share of challenge cost-share agreements for deferred maintenance projects and to correct deficiencies in National Park Service infrastructure.* “(5)*Cost-share requirement**.—**Not less than 50 percent of the total cost of project for funds made available under paragraph (4) to pay the Federal funding share shall be derived from non-Federal sources, including in-kind contribution of goods and services fairly valued.”*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 101701 | 16 U.S.C. 1f. | Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 814(g), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4199. |
