---
title: "§ 290cc–25. Conversion to categorical program in event of failure of State regarding expenditure of grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290cc–25"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290cc–25"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 525, as added [Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, § 611(3)](/us/pl/100/77/tVI/s611/3), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 518](/us/stat/101/518); amended [Pub. L. 101–645, title V, § 511](/us/pl/101/645/tV/s511), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4729](/us/stat/104/4729).)"
---
# § 290cc–25. Conversion to categorical program in event of failure of State regarding expenditure of grants

##### § 290cc–25. Conversion to categorical program in event of failure of State regarding expenditure of grants

(a) In general Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary shall, from the amounts specified in subsection (b), make grants to public and nonprofit private entities for the purpose of providing to eligible homeless individuals the services specified in [section 290cc–22(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–22/b).

(b) Specification of funds The amounts referred to in subsection (a) are any amounts made available in appropriations Acts for allotments under [section 290cc–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–21) that are not paid to a State as a result of—

(A) the failure of the State to submit an application under [section 290cc–29 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–29);

(B) the failure of the State, in the determination of the Secretary, to prepare the application in accordance with such section or to submit the application within a reasonable period of time; or

(C) the State informing the Secretary that the State does not intend to expend the full amount of the allotment made to the State.

(c) Requirement of provision of services in State involved With respect to grants under subsection (a), amounts made available under subsection (b) as a result of the State involved shall be available only for grants to provide services in such State.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 525, as added [Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, § 611(3)](/us/pl/100/77/tVI/s611/3), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 518](/us/stat/101/518); amended [Pub. L. 101–645, title V, § 511](/us/pl/101/645/tV/s511), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4729](/us/stat/104/4729).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 525 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 546 by [section 611(2) of Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77/s611/2) and is classified to [section 290ee–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290ee–1).

#### Amendments

1990—[Pub. L. 101–645](/us/pl/101/645) amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to conversion to categorical program in event of failure of State regarding expenditure of grants for provisions relating to restrictions on use of payments.
