---
title: "§ 47140. Meeting current and future energy power demand"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47140"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47140"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–95, title V, § 512(a)](/us/pl/112/95/tV/s512/a), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 109](/us/stat/126/109), § 47140a; renumbered § 47140 and amended [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI), §§ 166(b)(1), 171, Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3226](/us/stat/132/3226), 3227; [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 742(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s742/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1278](/us/stat/138/1278).)"
---
# § 47140. Meeting current and future energy power demand

##### § 47140. Meeting current and future energy power demand

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation shall establish a program under which the Secretary shall—

(1) encourage the sponsor of each public-use airport to—

(A) conduct airport planning that assesses the airport’s—

(i) current and future energy power requirements, including—

(I) heating and cooling;

(II) on-road airport vehicles and ground support equipment;

(III) gate electrification;

(IV) electric aircraft charging; and

(V) vehicles and equipment used to transport passengers and employees between the airport and—

(aa) nearby facilities owned or controlled by the airport or which otherwise directly support the functions or services provided by the airport; or

(bb) an intermodal surface transportation facility adjacent to the airport; and

(ii) existing energy infrastructure condition, location, and capacity, including base load and backup power, to meet the current and future electrical power demand as identified in this subparagraph; and

(B) conduct airport development to improve energy efficiency, increase peak load savings at the airport, and meet future electrical power demands as identified in subparagraph (A); and

(2) reimburse the airport sponsor for the costs incurred in conducting the assessment under paragraph (1)(A).

(b) Grants.— The Secretary shall make grants to airport sponsors from amounts made available under section 48103 to assist such sponsors that have completed the assessment described in subsection (a)(1)—

(1) to acquire or construct equipment that will improve energy efficiency at the airport; and

(2) to pursue an airport development project described in subsection (a)(1)(B).

(c) Application.— To be eligible for a grant under paragraph (1),11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection (b)”. the sponsor of a public-use airport shall submit an application, including a certification that no safety projects are being deferred by requesting a grant under this section, to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–95, title V, § 512(a)](/us/pl/112/95/tV/s512/a), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 109](/us/stat/126/109), § 47140a; renumbered § 47140 and amended [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI), §§ 166(b)(1), 171, Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3226](/us/stat/132/3226), 3227; [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 742(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s742/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1278](/us/stat/138/1278).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 47140, added [Pub. L. 108–176, title I, § 159(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/176/tI/s159/a/1), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2509](/us/stat/117/2509), related to airport ground support equipment emissions retrofit pilot program, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 166(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s166/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3226](/us/stat/132/3226).

#### Amendments

2024—[Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to increasing the energy efficiency of airport power sources.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–254, § 166(b)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/s166/b/1), renumbered [section 47140a of this title](/us/usc/t49/s47140a) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 171(a)](/us/pl/115/254/s171/a), inserted “, and to reimburse the airport sponsor for the costs incurred in conducting the assessment” before period at end.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 171(b)](/us/pl/115/254/s171/b), inserted “, including a certification that no safety projects are being be deferred by requesting a grant under this section,” after “an application”.
