---
title: "§ 1671. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1671"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1671"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–321, title III, § 301](/us/pl/90/321/tIII/s301), May 29, 1968, [82 Stat. 163](/us/stat/82/163).)"
---
# § 1671. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose

##### § 1671. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose

(a) Disadvantages of garnishment The Congress finds:

(1) The unrestricted garnishment of compensation due for personal services encourages the making of predatory extensions of credit. Such extensions of credit divert money into excessive credit payments and thereby hinder the production and flow of goods in interstate commerce.

(2) The application of garnishment as a creditors’ remedy frequently results in loss of employment by the debtor, and the resulting disruption of employment, production, and consumption constitutes a substantial burden on interstate commerce.

(3) The great disparities among the laws of the several States relating to garnishment have, in effect, destroyed the uniformity of the bankruptcy laws and frustrated the purposes thereof in many areas of the country.

(b) Necessity for regulation On the basis of the findings stated in subsection (a) of this section, the Congress determines that the provisions of this subchapter are necessary and proper for the purpose of carrying into execution the powers of the Congress to regulate commerce and to establish uniform bankruptcy laws.

*([Pub. L. 90–321, title III, § 301](/us/pl/90/321/tIII/s301), May 29, 1968, [82 Stat. 163](/us/stat/82/163).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 90–321, title V, § 504(c)](/us/pl/90/321/tV/s504/c), May 29, 1968, [82 Stat. 167](/us/stat/82/167), provided that: “Title III [enacting this section and sections 1672 to 1677 of this title] takes effect on July 1, 1970.”
