---
title: "§ 15874. Intermountain West Geothermal Consortium"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15874"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15874"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 237](/us/pl/109/58/tII/s237), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 673](/us/stat/119/673).)"
---
# § 15874. Intermountain West Geothermal Consortium

##### § 15874. Intermountain West Geothermal Consortium

(a) Participation authorized The Secretary, acting through the Idaho National Laboratory, may participate in a consortium described in subsection (b) to address science and science policy issues surrounding the expanded discovery and use of geothermal energy, including from geothermal resources on public lands.

(b) Members The consortium referred to in subsection (a) shall—

(1) be known as the “Intermountain West Geothermal Consortium”;

(2) be a regional consortium of institutions and government agencies that focuses on building collaborative efforts among the universities in the State of Idaho, other regional universities, State agencies, and the Idaho National Laboratory;

(3) include Boise State University, the University of Idaho (including the Idaho Water Resources Research Institute), the Oregon Institute of Technology, the Desert Research Institute with the University and Community College System of Nevada, and the Energy and Geoscience Institute at the University of Utah;

(4) be hosted and managed by Boise State University; and

(5) have a director appointed by Boise State University, and associate directors appointed by each participating institution.

(c) Financial assistance The Secretary, acting through the Idaho National Laboratory and subject to the availability of appropriations, will provide financial assistance to Boise State University for expenditure under contracts with members of the consortium to carry out the activities of the consortium.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 237](/us/pl/109/58/tII/s237), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 673](/us/stat/119/673).)*
