---
title: "§ 571. Regulatory treatment of video programming services"
identifier: "USC-T47-S571"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section571"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VI, § 651, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tIII/s302/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 118](/us/stat/110/118).)"
---
# § 571. Regulatory treatment of video programming services

##### § 571. Regulatory treatment of video programming services

(a) Limitations on cable regulation

(1) Radio-based systems To the extent that a common carrier (or any other person) is providing video programming to subscribers using radio communication, such carrier (or other person) shall be subject to the requirements of subchapter III and [section 572 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s572), but shall not otherwise be subject to the requirements of this subchapter.

(2) Common carriage of video traffic To the extent that a common carrier is providing transmission of video programming on a common carrier basis, such carrier shall be subject to the requirements of subchapter II and [section 572 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s572), but shall not otherwise be subject to the requirements of this subchapter. This paragraph shall not affect the treatment under [section 522(7)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s522/7/C) of a facility of a common carrier as a cable system.

(3) Cable systems and open video systems To the extent that a common carrier is providing video programming to its subscribers in any manner other than that described in paragraphs (1) and (2)—

(A) such carrier shall be subject to the requirements of this subchapter, unless such programming is provided by means of an open video system for which the Commission has approved a certification under [section 573 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s573); or

(B) if such programming is provided by means of an open video system for which the Commission has approved a certification under [section 573 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s573), such carrier shall be subject to the requirements of this part, but shall be subject to parts I through IV of this subchapter only as provided in 573(c) of this title.

(4) Election to operate as open video system A common carrier that is providing video programming in a manner described in paragraph (1) or (2), or a combination thereof, may elect to provide such programming by means of an open video system that complies with [section 573 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s573). If the Commission approves such carrier’s certification under [section 573 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s573), such carrier shall be subject to the requirements of this part, but shall be subject to parts I through IV of this subchapter only as provided in 573(c) of this title.

(b) Limitations on interconnection obligations A local exchange carrier that provides cable service through an open video system or a cable system shall not be required, pursuant to subchapter II of this chapter, to make capacity available on a nondiscriminatory basis to any other person for the provision of cable service directly to subscribers.

(c) Additional regulatory relief A common carrier shall not be required to obtain a certificate under [section 214 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s214) with respect to the establishment or operation of a system for the delivery of video programming.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VI, § 651, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tIII/s302/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 118](/us/stat/110/118).)*
