---
title: "§ 9623. Reimbursement to local governments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9623"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9623"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–510, title I, § 123](/us/pl/96/510/tI/s123), as added [Pub. L. 99–499, title I, § 123(a)](/us/pl/99/499/tI/s123/a), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/100/1688).)"
---
# § 9623. Reimbursement to local governments

##### § 9623. Reimbursement to local governments

(a) Application Any general purpose unit of local government for a political subdivision which is affected by a release or threatened release at any facility may apply to the President for reimbursement under this section.

(b) Reimbursement

(1) Temporary emergency measures The President is authorized to reimburse local community authorities for expenses incurred (before or after October 17, 1986) in carrying out temporary emergency measures necessary to prevent or mitigate injury to human health or the environment associated with the release or threatened release of any hazardous substance or pollutant or contaminant. Such measures may include, where appropriate, security fencing to limit access, response to fires and explosions, and other measures which require immediate response at the local level.

(2) Local funds not supplanted Reimbursement under this section shall not supplant local funds normally provided for response.

(c) Amount The amount of any reimbursement to any local authority under subsection (b)(1) may not exceed $25,000 for a single response. The reimbursement under this section with respect to a single facility shall be limited to the units of local government having jurisdiction over the political subdivision in which the facility is located.

(d) Procedure Reimbursements authorized pursuant to this section shall be in accordance with rules promulgated by the Administrator within one year after October 17, 1986.

*([Pub. L. 96–510, title I, § 123](/us/pl/96/510/tI/s123), as added [Pub. L. 99–499, title I, § 123(a)](/us/pl/99/499/tI/s123/a), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/100/1688).)*
