---
title: "§ 6502. Consolidated research database"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VI, § 6019(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVI/s6019/b/1), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1579](/us/stat/129/1579); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title V, § 25015(b)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tV/s25015/b), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 871](/us/stat/135/871).)"
---
# § 6502. Consolidated research database

##### § 6502. Consolidated research database

(a) Research Abstract Database.—

(1) Submission.— Not later than September 1 of each year, the head of each modal administration and joint program office of the Department of Transportation shall submit to the Assistant Secretary, for review and public posting, a description of each proposed research project to be carried out during the following fiscal year, including—

(A) proposed funding for any new projects; and

(B) proposed additional funding for any existing projects.

(2) Publication.— Not less frequently than annually, after receiving the descriptions under paragraph (1), the Assistant Secretary shall publish on a public website a comprehensive database including a description of all research projects conducted by the Department of Transportation, including research funded through university transportation centers under section 5505.

(3) Contents.— The database published under paragraph (2) shall—

(A) be delimited by research project; and

(B) include a description of, with respect to each research project—

(i) research objectives;

(ii) the progress made with respect to the project, including whether the project is ongoing or complete;

(iii) any outcomes of the project, including potential implications for policy, regulations, or guidance issued by a modal administration or the Department of Transportation;

(iv) any findings of the project;

(v) the amount of funds allocated for the project; and

(vi) such other information as the Assistant Secretary determines to be necessary to address Departmental priorities and statutory mandates;

(C) identify research projects with multimodal applications;

(D) specify how relevant modal administrations have assisted, will contribute to, or plan to use the findings from the research projects identified under paragraph (1);

(E) identify areas in which more than 1 modal administration is conducting research on a similar subject or a subject that has a bearing on more than 1 mode;

(F) indicate how the findings of research are being disseminated to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and safety of transportation systems; and

(G) describe the public and stakeholder input to the research plans submitted under section 6501(a)(1).

(b) Funding Report.— In conjunction with each of the annual budget requests submitted by the President under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105), the Secretary shall annually publish on a public website and submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that describes—

(1) the amount spent in the last full fiscal year on transportation research and development with specific descriptions of projects funded at $5,000,000 or more; and

(2) the amount proposed in the current budget for transportation research and development with specific descriptions of projects funded at $5,000,000 or more.

(c) Performance Plans and Reports.— In the plans and reports submitted under sections 1115 and 1116 of title 31, the Secretary shall include—

(1) a summary of the Federal transportation research and development activities for the previous fiscal year in each topic area;

(2) the amount spent in each topic area;

(3) a description of the extent to which the research and development is meeting the expectations described in section 6503(c)(1); and

(4) any amendments to the strategic plan developed under section 6503.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VI, § 6019(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVI/s6019/b/1), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1579](/us/stat/129/1579); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title V, § 25015(b)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tV/s25015/b), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 871](/us/stat/135/871).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) inserted subsec. (a) heading and added pars. (1) and (2) and heading, introductory provisions, and subpars. (A) and (B) of par. (3), and struck out former subsec. (a) heading, former par. (1), which related to publication of research abstract database in general, and former par. (2) heading and subpars. (A) and (B), which related to contents of database. Subpars. (C) to (G) of former par. (2) effectively redesignated subpars. (C) to (G) of par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.
