---
title: "§ 2624. Lifeline rates"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2624"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2624"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–617, title I, § 114](/us/pl/95/617/tI/s114), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3124](/us/stat/92/3124).)"
---
# § 2624. Lifeline rates

##### § 2624. Lifeline rates

(a) Lower rates No provision of this chapter prohibits a State regulatory authority (with respect to an electric utility for which it has ratemaking authority) or a nonregulated electric utility from fixing, approving, or allowing to go into effect a rate for essential needs (as defined by the State regulatory authority or by the nonregulated electric utility, as the case may be) of residential electric consumers which is lower than a rate under the standard referred to in [section 2621(d)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2621/d/1).

(b) Determination If any State regulated electric utility or nonregulated electric utility does not have a lower rate as described in subsection (a) in effect two years after November 9, 1978, the State regulatory authority having ratemaking authority with respect to such State regulated electric utility or the nonregulated electric utility, as the case may be, shall determine, after an evidentiary hearing, whether such a rate should be implemented by such utility.

(c) Prior proceedings [Section 2634 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2634) shall not apply to the requirements of this section.

*([Pub. L. 95–617, title I, § 114](/us/pl/95/617/tI/s114), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3124](/us/stat/92/3124).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I (§ 101 et seq.) of [Pub. L. 95–617](/us/pl/95/617), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3120](/us/stat/92/3120), which enacted subchapters I to IV of this chapter and [section 6808 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s6808), The Public Health and Welfare, and amended sections 6802 to 6807 of Title 42. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.
