---
title: "§ 12141. Grant authorization"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12141"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12141"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 30301](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s30301), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1844](/us/stat/108/1844).)"
---
# § 12141. Grant authorization

##### § 12141. Grant authorization

(a) Establishment

(1) In general The Attorney General may award grants to not more than 15 chronic high intensive crime areas to develop comprehensive model crime prevention programs that—

(A) involve and utilize a broad spectrum of community resources, including nonprofit community organizations, law enforcement organizations, and appropriate State and Federal agencies, including the State educational agencies;

(B) attempt to relieve conditions that encourage crime; and

(C) provide meaningful and lasting alternatives to involvement in crime.

(2) Consultation with the Ounce of Prevention Council The Attorney General may consult with the Ounce of Prevention Council in awarding grants under paragraph (1).

(b) Priority In awarding grants under subsection (a), the Attorney General shall give priority to proposals that—

(1) are innovative in approach to the prevention of crime in a specific area;

(2) vary in approach to ensure that comparisons of different models may be made; and

(3) coordinate crime prevention programs funded under this program with other existing Federal programs to address the overall needs of communities that benefit from grants received under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 30301](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s30301), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1844](/us/stat/108/1844).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/108/1836). For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13771 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13771), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
