---
title: "§ 4712. Assessment"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4712"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4712"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 812](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s812), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 91](/us/stat/134/91).)"
---
# § 4712. Assessment

##### § 4712. Assessment

(a) In general The Interagency Environment Committee shall carry out an assessment of the environmental laws and policies of the USMCA countries—

(1) to determine if such laws and policies are sufficient to implement their environmental obligations; and

(2) to identify any gaps between such laws and policies and their environmental obligations.

(b) Matters to be included The assessment required by subsection (a) shall identify the environmental laws and policies of the USMCA countries with respect to which enhanced cooperation, including the provision of technical assistance and capacity building assistance, monitoring actions, and enforcement actions, if appropriate, should be carried out on an enhanced and continuing basis.

(c) Report Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Interagency Environment Committee is established, or the date on which the USMCA enters into force, whichever occurs earlier, the Interagency Environment Committee shall submit a report that contains the assessment required by subsection (a) to—

(1) the appropriate congressional committees; and

(2) the Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee (or successor advisory committee) established under [section 2155(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2155/c/1).

(d) Update The Interagency Environment Committee shall—

(1) update the assessment required by subsection (a) at the appropriate time prior to submission of the report required by [section 4716(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4716/a) that is to be submitted in the fifth year after the USMCA enters into force; and

(2) submit the updated assessment to the Trade Representative for inclusion in such fifth annual report.

(e) Consultation The Interagency Environment Committee shall consult on a regular basis with the USMCA countries—

(1) in carrying out the assessment required by subsection (a) and the update to the assessment required by subsection (d); and

(2) in preparing the report required by subsection (c).

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 812](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s812), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 91](/us/stat/134/91).)*
