---
title: "§ 3713. Prohibited acts"
identifier: "USC-T46-S3713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section3713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 525](/us/stat/97/525).)"
---
# § 3713. Prohibited acts

##### § 3713. Prohibited acts

(a) A person may not—

(1) violate this chapter or a regulation prescribed under this chapter;

(2) refuse to permit any official, authorized by the Secretary to enforce this chapter, to board a vessel or to enter a shore area, place, or premises, under a person’s control to make an inspection under this chapter; or

(3) refuse to obey a lawful directive issued under this chapter.

(b) A vessel to which this chapter applies may not—

(1) operate on the navigable waters of the United States or use a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States when not in compliance with this chapter or a regulation prescribed under this chapter;

(2) fail to comply with a lawful directive issued under this chapter; or

(3) carry a type or grade of oil or hazardous material in bulk as cargo or cargo residue unless its certificate is endorsed to allow that carriage.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 525](/us/stat/97/525).)*

Section 3713(a) prohibits any person from violating any provision of this chapter or a regulation prescribed under its authority. It prohibits the refusal to permit authorized officials to board a vessel or to enter a shore area for the purposes of inspection of the vessel or premises. It also prohibits the refusal to obey any lawful directive issued under this chapter.

Section 3713(b) prohibits any vessel, subject to the provisions of this chapter from operating on the navigable waters of the United States, or from using any port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States while not in compliance with any provision of applicable law or regulation. It further prohibits any vessel from failing to comply with a lawful directive issued pursuant to the authority of this chapter. It also prohibits the vessel from carrying oil or hazardous material as cargo or cargo residue unless its certificate is so endorsed to permit its carriage.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 3713 | 46:391a(13) |
