---
title: "§ 7603. Purpose"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–25, § 4](/us/pl/108/25/s4), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 717](/us/stat/117/717); [Pub. L. 110–293, § 4](/us/pl/110/293/s4), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2922](/us/stat/122/2922).)"
---
# § 7603. Purpose

##### § 7603. Purpose

(1) establishing comprehensive, coordinated, and integrated 5-year, global strategies to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria by—

(A) building on progress and successes to date;

(B) improving harmonization of United States efforts with national strategies of partner governments and other public and private entities; and

(C) emphasizing capacity building initiatives in order to promote a transition toward greater sustainability through the support of country-driven efforts;

(2) providing increased resources for bilateral and multilateral efforts to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria as integrated components of United States development assistance;

(3) intensifying efforts to—

(A) prevent HIV infection;

(B) ensure the continued support for, and expanded access to, treatment and care programs;

(C) enhance the effectiveness of prevention, treatment, and care programs; and

(D) address the particular vulnerabilities of girls and women;

(4) encouraging the expansion of private sector efforts and expanding public-private sector partnerships to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria;

(5) reinforcing efforts to—

(A) develop safe and effective vaccines, microbicides, and other prevention and treatment technologies; and

(B) improve diagnostics capabilities for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria; and

(6) helping partner countries to—

(A) strengthen health systems;

(B) expand health workforce; and

(C) address infrastructural weaknesses.

*([Pub. L. 108–25, § 4](/us/pl/108/25/s4), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 717](/us/stat/117/717); [Pub. L. 110–293, § 4](/us/pl/110/293/s4), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2922](/us/stat/122/2922).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 108–25](/us/pl/108/25), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 711](/us/stat/117/711), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7601 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7601) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2008—[Pub. L. 110–293](/us/pl/110/293) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section stated the purpose of this chapter.
