---
title: "§ 2121. Voluntary contributions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2121"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2121"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 281](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s281), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3239](/us/stat/106/3239).)"
---
# § 2121. Voluntary contributions

##### § 2121. Voluntary contributions

(a) Authority for voluntary contributions

(1) In general Under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Director, a participant may voluntarily contribute additional sums in multiples of one percent of the participant’s basic pay, but not in excess of 10 percent of such basic pay.

(2) Interest The voluntary contribution account in each case is the sum of unrefunded contributions, plus interest—

compounded annually to the date of election under subsection (b) or the date of payment under subsection (d).

(A) for periods before January 1, 1985, at 3 percent a year; and

(B) for periods on or after January 1, 1985, at the rate computed under [section 8334(e) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8334/e),

(b) Treatment of voluntary contributions Effective on the date of retirement and at the election of the participant, the participant’s account shall be—

In the case of a benefit provided under paragraph (3) or (4), the participant shall notify the Director in writing of the name of the beneficiary of the cash payment or life annuity to be paid upon the participant’s death.

(1) returned in a lump sum;

(2) used to purchase an additional life annuity;

(3) used to purchase an additional life annuity for the participant and to provide for a cash payment on the participant’s death to a beneficiary; or

(4) used to purchase an additional life annuity for the participant and a life annuity commencing on the participant’s death payable to a beneficiary, with a guaranteed return to the beneficiary or the beneficiary’s legal representative of an amount equal to the cash payment referred to in paragraph (3).

(c) Value of benefits The benefits provided by subsection (b)(2), (3), or (4) shall be actuarially equivalent in value to the payment provided for in subsection (b)(1) and shall be calculated upon such tables of mortality as may be from time to time prescribed for this purpose by the Director.

(d) Lump-sum payment A voluntary contribution account shall be paid in a lump sum at such time as the participant dies or separates from the Agency without entitlement to an annuity. In the case of death, the account shall be paid in the order of precedence specified in [section 2071(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2071/c).

(e) Benefits in addition to other benefits Any benefit payable to a participant or to the participant’s beneficiary with respect to the additional contributions provided under this section shall be in addition to benefits otherwise provided under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 281](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s281), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3239](/us/stat/106/3239).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 281 of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s281), title II, Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1053](/us/stat/78/1053); Ex. Ord. No. 12443, § 3, Sept. 27, 1983, 48 F.R. 44751; [Pub. L. 99–335, title V, § 501(2)](/us/pl/99/335/tV/s501/2), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 622](/us/stat/100/622), related to voluntary contributions and was set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403) prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643) by [section 802 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s802).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).
