---
title: "§ 200. Policy and objective"
identifier: "USC-T35-S200"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-12"
last_updated: "2025-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title35-section200"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "35"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–517, § 6(a)](/us/pl/96/517/s6/a), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3018](/us/stat/94/3018); amended [Pub. L. 106–404, § 5](/us/pl/106/404/s5), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1745](/us/stat/114/1745).)"
---
# § 200. Policy and objective

##### § 200. Policy and objective

It is the policy and objective of the Congress to use the patent system to promote the utilization of inventions arising from federally supported research or development; to encourage maximum participation of small business firms in federally supported research and development efforts; to promote collaboration between commercial concerns and nonprofit organizations, including universities; to ensure that inventions made by nonprofit organizations and small business firms are used in a manner to promote free competition and enterprise without unduly encumbering future research and discovery; to promote the commercialization and public availability of inventions made in the United States by United States industry and labor; to ensure that the Government obtains sufficient rights in federally supported inventions to meet the needs of the Government and protect the public against nonuse or unreasonable use of inventions; and to minimize the costs of administering policies in this area.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–517, § 6(a)](/us/pl/96/517/s6/a), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3018](/us/stat/94/3018); amended [Pub. L. 106–404, § 5](/us/pl/106/404/s5), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1745](/us/stat/114/1745).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2000—[Pub. L. 106–404](/us/pl/106/404) substituted “enterprise without unduly encumbering future research and discovery;” for “enterprise;”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1981, but implementing regulations authorized to be issued earlier, see [section 8(f) of Pub. L. 96–517](/us/pl/96/517/s8/f), set out as an Effective Date of 1980 Amendment note under [section 41 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s41).

#### Short Title

This chapter is popularly known as the Bayh-Dole Act. [Section 6(a) of Pub. L. 96–517](/us/pl/96/517/s6/a), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3018](/us/stat/94/3018), which enacted this chapter, is also popularly known as the Bayh-Dole Act and also as the University and Small Business Patent Procedures Act of 1980. For complete classification of [section 6(a) of Pub. L. 96–517](/us/pl/96/517/s6/a) to the Code, see Tables.
