---
title: "§ 345. Administration, protection, and promotion"
identifier: "USC-T16-S345"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section345"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Nov. 19, 1919, ch. 110, § 2](/us/act/1919-11-19/ch110/s2), [41 Stat. 356](/us/stat/41/356).)"
---
# § 345. Administration, protection, and promotion

##### § 345. Administration, protection, and promotion

The administration, protection, and promotion of said Zion National Park shall be exercised under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior by the National Park Service, subject to the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916, entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes,” 11 See References in Text note below. and Acts additional thereto or amendatory thereof.

*([Nov. 19, 1919, ch. 110, § 2](/us/act/1919-11-19/ch110/s2), [41 Stat. 356](/us/stat/41/356).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of August 25, 1916, entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes,”, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408](/us/act/1916-08-25/ch408), [39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535), known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101), National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as [section 1865(a) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1865/a), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Obligation of Fees for Transportation Services at Zion or Rocky Mountain National Parks

For provisions relating to obligation of expenditure of fees prior to receipt for transportation service contracts, see [section 140 of Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7/s140), set out as a note under [section 195 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s195).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
