---
title: "§ 4764. Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for State or local governments and other organizations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4764"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4764"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–648, title V, § 504](/us/pl/91/648/tV/s504), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1926](/us/stat/84/1926); 1978 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. Jan. 1, 1979, 43 F.R. 36037, [92 Stat. 3783](/us/stat/92/3783).)"
---
# § 4764. Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for State or local governments and other organizations

##### § 4764. Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for State or local governments and other organizations

(a) A State or local government office designated to administer a program or project under this chapter shall make reports and evaluations in such form, at such times, and containing such information concerning the status and application of Federal funds and the operation of the approved program or project as the Office may require, and shall keep and make available such records as may be required by the Office for the verification of such reports and evaluations.

(b) An organization which receives a training grant under [section 4744 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4744) shall make reports and evaluations in such form, at such times, and containing such information concerning the status and application of Federal grant funds and the operation of the training program as the Office may require, and shall keep and make available such records as may be required by the Office for the verification of such reports and evaluations.

*([Pub. L. 91–648, title V, § 504](/us/pl/91/648/tV/s504), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1926](/us/stat/84/1926); 1978 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. Jan. 1, 1979, 43 F.R. 36037, [92 Stat. 3783](/us/stat/92/3783).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), means the provisions of subchapters I, II, III, and IV of this chapter. See [section 4761 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4761).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Office”, meaning Office of Personnel Management, substituted in text for “Commission”, meaning Civil Service Commission, pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1978, § 102, 43 F.R. 36037, [92 Stat. 3783](/us/stat/92/3783), set out under [section 1101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1101), Government Organization and Employees, which transferred functions vested by statute in Civil Service Commission and Chairman thereof to Director of Office of Personnel Management (except as otherwise specified), effective Jan. 1, 1979, as provided by section 1–102 of Ex. Ord. No. 12107, Dec. 28, 1978, 44 F.R. 1055, set out under [section 1101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
