---
title: "§ 288–2. Extramural loan repayment program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S288–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section288–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 487B, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title X, § 1002](/us/pl/103/43/tX/s1002), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 166](/us/stat/107/166); amended [Pub. L. 105–392, title IV, § 410(b)](/us/pl/105/392/tIV/s410/b), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3589](/us/stat/112/3589); [Pub. L. 110–154, § 1(b)(8)](/us/pl/110/154/s1/b/8), Dec. 21, 2007, [121 Stat. 1827](/us/stat/121/1827); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title II, § 2022(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dA/tII/s2022/b), De"
---
# § 288–2. Extramural loan repayment program

##### § 288–2. Extramural loan repayment program

(a) In general The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall, as appropriate and based on workforce and scientific priorities, carry out a program through the subcategories listed in subsection (b)(1) (or modified subcategories as provided for in subsection (b)(2)), of entering into contracts with qualified health professionals under which such health professionals agree to conduct research in consideration of the Federal Government agreeing to repay, for each year of such research, not more than $50,000 of the principal and interest of the educational loans of such health professionals.

(b) Subcategories of research

(1) In general In carrying out the program under subsection (a), the Director of the National Institutes of Health—

(A) shall continue to focus on—

(i) contraception or infertility research;

(ii) pediatric research, including pediatric pharmacological research;

(iii) minority health disparities research;

(iv) clinical research; and

(v) clinical research conducted by appropriately qualified health professional 11 So in original. Probably should be “professionals”. who are from disadvantaged backgrounds; and

(B) may focus on an area of emerging scientific or workforce need.

(2) Elimination or establishment of subcategories The Director of the National Institutes of Health may eliminate one or more subcategories provided for in paragraph (1) due to changes in workforce or scientific needs related to biomedical research. The Director may establish other subcategory areas based on workforce and scientific priorities if the total number of subcategories does not exceed the number of subcategories listed in paragraph (1).

(c) Limitation The Director of the National Institutes of Health may not enter into a contract with a health professional pursuant to subsection (a) unless such professional has a substantial amount of education loans relative to income (as determined pursuant to guidelines issued by the Director).

(d) Applicability of certain provisions regarding obligated service The provisions of sections 254*l*–1, 254m, and 254*o* of this title shall, except as inconsistent with subsection (a) of this section, apply to the program established in subsection (a) to the same extent and in the same manner as such provisions apply to the National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program established in subpart III of part D of subchapter II.

(e) Availability of appropriations Amounts available for carrying out this section shall remain available until the expiration of the second fiscal year beginning after the fiscal year for which the amounts were made available.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 487B, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title X, § 1002](/us/pl/103/43/tX/s1002), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 166](/us/stat/107/166); amended [Pub. L. 105–392, title IV, § 410(b)](/us/pl/105/392/tIV/s410/b), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3589](/us/stat/112/3589); [Pub. L. 110–154, § 1(b)(8)](/us/pl/110/154/s1/b/8), Dec. 21, 2007, [121 Stat. 1827](/us/stat/121/1827); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title II, § 2022(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dA/tII/s2022/b), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1053](/us/stat/130/1053).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–255, § 2022(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/s2022/b/1), amended section catchline generally. Prior to amendment, catchline read as follows: “Loan repayment program for research with respect to contraception and infertility”.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 2022(b)(2)](/us/pl/114/255/s2022/b/2), inserted heading and, in text, substituted “The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall, as appropriate and based on workforce and scientific priorities, carry out a program through the subcategories listed in subsection (b)(1) (or modified subcategories as provided for in subsection (b)(2)),” for “The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, shall establish a program” and “research, not more than $50,000” for “service, not more than $35,000” and struck out “(including graduate students)” after “qualified health professionals” and “with respect to contraception, or with respect to infertility,” after “conduct research”.

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 2022(b)(4)](/us/pl/114/255/s2022/b/4), added subsecs. (b) and (c). Former subsecs. (b) and (c) redesignated (d) and (e), respectively.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 2022(3)](/us/pl/114/255/s2022/3), (5), redesignated subsec. (b) as (d) and inserted heading.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 2002(3)](/us/pl/114/255/s2002/3), (6), redesignated subsec. (c) as (e) and inserted heading.

2007—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–154](/us/pl/110/154), which directed substitution of “Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development” for “National Institute on Child Health and Human Development”, was executed by making the substitution for “National Institute of Child Health and Human Development” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–392](/us/pl/105/392) substituted “$35,000” for “$20,000”.
