---
title: "§ 7144d. Office of Arctic Energy"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7144d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7144d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXI, § 3197]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXI/s3197), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–482.)"
---
# § 7144d. Office of Arctic Energy

##### § 7144d. Office of Arctic Energy

(a) Establishment The Secretary of Energy may establish within the Department of Energy an Office of Arctic Energy.

(b) Purposes The purposes of such office shall be as follows:

(1) To promote research, development, and deployment of electric power technology that is cost-effective and especially well suited to meet the needs of rural and remote regions of the United States, especially where permafrost is present or located nearby.

(2) To promote research, development, and deployment in such regions of—

(A) enhanced oil recovery technology, including heavy oil recovery, reinjection of carbon, and extended reach drilling technologies;

(B) gas-to-liquids technology and liquified natural gas (including associated transportation systems);

(C) small hydroelectric facilities, river turbines, and tidal power;

(D) natural gas hydrates, coal bed methane, and shallow bed natural gas; and

(E) alternative energy, including wind, geothermal, and fuel cells.

(c) Location The Secretary shall locate such office at a university with expertise and experience in the matters specified in subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXI, § 3197]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXI/s3197), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–482.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
