---
title: "§ 2182. Educational assistance: dependents of captives"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2182"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2182"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–399, title VIII, § 806(d)(1)](/us/pl/99/399/tVIII/s806/d/1), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 887](/us/stat/100/887).)"
---
# § 2182. Educational assistance: dependents of captives

##### § 2182. Educational assistance: dependents of captives

(a) Under regulations prescribed by the President, the Secretary concerned shall pay (by advancement or reimbursement) a dependent of a person who is in a captive status for expenses incurred, while attending an educational or training institution, for—

(1) subsistence;

(2) tuition;

(3) fees;

(4) supplies;

(5) books;

(6) equipment; and

(7) other educational expenses.

(b) Except as provided in [section 2184 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2184), payments shall be available under this section for a dependent of a person who is in a captive status for education or training that occurs—

(1) after that person is in a captive status for not less than 90 days; and

(2) on or before—

(A) the end of any semester or quarter (as appropriate) that begins before the date on which the captive status of that person terminates;

(B) the earlier of the end of any course that began before such date or the end of the 16-week period following that date if the educational or training institution is not operated on a semester or quarter system; or

(C) a date specified by the Secretary concerned in order to respond to special circumstances.

(c) If a person in a captive status or a former captive dies and the death is incident to the captivity, payments shall be available under this section for a dependent of that person for education or training that occurs after the date of the death of that person.

(d) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dependent who is eligible for assistance under chapter 35 of title 38 or similar assistance under any other provision of law.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–399, title VIII, § 806(d)(1)](/us/pl/99/399/tVIII/s806/d/1), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 887](/us/stat/100/887).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to persons whose captive status begins after Jan. 21, 1981, see [section 806(d)(3) of Pub. L. 99–399](/us/pl/99/399/s806/d/3), set out as a note under 2181 of this title.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of the President under this section delegated to the Secretary of Defense, see section 3 of Ex. Ord. No. 12598, June 17, 1987, 52 F.R. 23421, set out as a note under [section 5569 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5569), Government Organization and Employees.
