---
title: "§ 263a–7. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S263a–7"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section263a–7"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–493, § 8](/us/pl/102/493/s8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3151](/us/stat/106/3151).)"
---
# § 263a–7. Definitions

##### § 263a–7. Definitions

(1) Assisted reproductive technology The term “assisted reproductive technology” means all treatments or procedures which include the handling of human oocytes or embryos, including in vitro fertilization, gamete intrafallopian transfer, zygote intrafallopian transfer, and such other specific technologies as the Secretary may include in this definition, after making public any proposed definition in such manner as to facilitate comment from any person (including any Federal or other public agency).

(2) Embryo laboratory The term “embryo laboratory” means a facility in which human oocytes are subject to assisted reproductive technology treatment or procedures based on manipulation of oocytes or embryos which are subject to implantation.

(3) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

*([Pub. L. 102–493, § 8](/us/pl/102/493/s8), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3151](/us/stat/106/3151).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 263a–1 to 263a–7 of this title, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 102–493](/us/pl/102/493), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3146](/us/stat/106/3146), known as the Fertility Clinic Success Rate and Certification Act of 1992, which enacted sections 263a–1 to 263a–7 of this title and provisions set out as notes under sections 201 and 263a–1 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Fertility Clinic Success Rate and Certification Act of 1992, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon expiration of 2 years after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 9 of Pub. L. 102–493](/us/pl/102/493/s9), set out as a note under [section 263a–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s263a–1).
