---
title: "§ 20234. Opportunities for consideration for promotion"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20234"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20234"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 643](/us/stat/137/643); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521(r)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521/r), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1882](/us/stat/138/1882).)"
---
# § 20234. Opportunities for consideration for promotion

##### § 20234. Opportunities for consideration for promotion

(a) Specification of Number of Opportunities for Consideration for Promotion.— The Secretary of the Air Force shall specify the number of opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded to Space Force officers for promotion to each grade above the grade of captain.

(b) Limited Authority of Secretary of the Air Force to Modify Number of Opportunities.— The Secretary of the Air Force may modify the number of opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded officers within a competitive category for promotion to a particular grade, as previously specified by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a), not more frequently than once every five years.

(c) Authority of Secretary of Defense to Modify Number of Opportunities.— The Secretary of Defense may modify the number of opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded officers of the Space Force within a competitive category for promotion to a particular grade, as previously specified or modified pursuant to any provision of this section, at the discretion of the Secretary.

(d) Limitation on Number of Opportunities Specified.— The number of opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded officers of the Space Force within a competitive category for promotion to a particular grade, as specified or modified pursuant to any provision of this section, may not exceed five opportunities.

(e) Effect of Certain Reduction in Number of Opportunities Specified.— If, by reason of a reduction in the number of opportunities for consideration for promotion under this section, an officer would no longer have one or more opportunities for consideration for promotion that were available to the officer before the reduction, the officer shall be afforded one additional opportunity for consideration for promotion after the reduction.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 643](/us/stat/137/643); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521(r)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521/r), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1882](/us/stat/138/1882).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) substituted “pursuant to subsection (a)” for “pursuant subsection (a)”.
