---
title: "§§ 1991 to 2001. Repealed. [Pub. L. 87–256, § 111(a)(3)](/us/pl/87/256/s111/a/3), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 538](/us/stat/75/538)"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1991...2001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1991...2001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
---
# §§ 1991 to 2001. Repealed. [Pub. L. 87–256, § 111(a)(3)](/us/pl/87/256/s111/a/3), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 538](/us/stat/75/538)

##### §§ 1991 to 2001. Repealed. [Pub. L. 87–256, § 111(a)(3)](/us/pl/87/256/s111/a/3), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 538](/us/stat/75/538)

Sections, [act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 811](/us/act/1956-08-01/ch811), §§ 2–12, [70 Stat. 778–780](/us/stat/70/778-780), related to international cultural exchange and trade fair participation. See section 2451 et seq. of this title.

Section 1991 stated purpose of chapter.

Section 1992 prescribed authority of President, and appointment and compensation of Commissioner General and principal representatives.

Section 1993 encouraged private participation and contributions of funds, property, and services.

Section 1994 authorized appropriations.

Section 1995 permitted utilization of other laws in carrying out chapter.

Section 1996 authorized expenditures for acquisition of exhibits.

Section 1997 related to performance of functions without regard to other laws.

Section 1998 required reports to Congress.

Section 1999 created Advisory Committee on Arts; prescribed qualifications, duties, terms of office and compensation of members; and provided for staff and secretarial services.

Section 2000 authorized creation of interagency committees.

Section 2001 prescribed extent of cultural program.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Continuation of Certain Executive Orders, Agreements, Determination, Regulations, Contracts, Appointments, and Other Actions

Continuation in full force and effect, and applicability to the appropriate provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, set out as section 2451 et seq. of this title, until modified or superseded by appropriate authority, of all Executive orders, agreements, determinations, regulations, contracts, appointments, and other actions issued, concluded; or taken under authority of these sections, see [section 111(b) of Pub. L. 87–256](/us/pl/87/256/s111/b), set out as a note under [section 2451 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2451).
