---
title: "§ 5462. SEED Information Center System"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5462"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5462"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–179, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/101/179/tVI/s602), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1319](/us/stat/103/1319).)"
---
# § 5462. SEED Information Center System

##### § 5462. SEED Information Center System

(a) Establishment The President shall establish a SEED Information Center System, using existing Executive branch agencies and acting in cooperation with the Government of Poland and the Government of Hungary.

(b) Functions

(1) In general The SEED Information Center System shall serve as a central clearinghouse mechanism for information relating to—

(A) business needs and opportunities in Eastern Europe, and

(B) voluntary assistance to countries in Eastern Europe.

(2) Private enterprise development The SEED Information Center System shall be organized, among other purposes, to encourage—

(A) the submission of economically sound proposals to the Polish-American Enterprise Fund and Hungarian-American Enterprise Fund, and

(B) other sources of finance for the development of private enterprise in Eastern Europe.

(c) Location The SEED Information Center System shall be based jointly in Washington, District of Columbia; Warsaw, Poland; and Budapest, Hungary; and should it become appropriate, the capitals of other East European countries.

*([Pub. L. 101–179, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/101/179/tVI/s602), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1319](/us/stat/103/1319).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under this section delegated to Secretary of Commerce by section 3 of Ex. Ord. No. 12703, Feb. 20, 1990, 55 F.R. 6351, set out as a note under [section 5401 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5401).
