---
title: "§ 3904. Authority of Director of Indian Health Service"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3904"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3904"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–399, § 5](/us/pl/103/399/s5), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4166](/us/stat/108/4166).)"
---
# § 3904. Authority of Director of Indian Health Service

##### § 3904. Authority of Director of Indian Health Service

(a) Reservation inventory

(1) Upon request by an Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity, the Director shall—

(A) conduct an inventory and evaluation of the contents of open dumps on the Indian lands or Alaska Native lands which are subject to the authority of the Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity;

(B) determine the relative severity of the threat to public health and the environment posed by each dump based on information available to the Director and the Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity unless the Director, in consultation with the Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity, determines that additional actions such as soil testing or water monitoring would be appropriate in the circumstances; and

(C) develop cost estimates for the closure and postclosure maintenance of such dumps.

(2) The inventory and evaluation authorized under paragraph (1)(A) shall be carried out cooperatively with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The Director shall obtain the concurrence of the Administrator in the determination of relative severity made under paragraph (1)(B).

(b) Assistance Upon completion of the activities required to be performed pursuant to subsection (a), the Director shall, subject to subsection (c), provide financial and technical assistance to the Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity to carry out the activities necessary to—

(1) close such dumps; and

(2) provide for postclosure maintenance of such dumps.

(c) Conditions All assistance provided pursuant to subsection (b) shall be made available on a site-specific basis in accordance with priorities developed by the Director. Priorities on specific Indian lands or Alaska Native lands shall be developed in consultation with the Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity. The priorities shall take into account the relative severity of the threat to public health and the environment posed by each open dump and the availability of funds necessary for closure and postclosure maintenance.

*([Pub. L. 103–399, § 5](/us/pl/103/399/s5), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4166](/us/stat/108/4166).)*
