---
title: "§ 2103. Superintendence of the merchant marine"
identifier: "USC-T46-S2103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section2103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 506](/us/stat/97/506); [Pub. L. 99–307, § 9](/us/pl/99/307/s9), May 19, 1986, [100 Stat. 447](/us/stat/100/447).)"
---
# § 2103. Superintendence of the merchant marine

##### § 2103. Superintendence of the merchant marine

The Secretary has general superintendence over the merchant marine of the United States and of merchant marine personnel insofar as the enforcement of this subtitle is concerned and insofar as those vessels and personnel are not subject, under other law, to the supervision of another official of the United States Government. In the interests of marine safety and seamen’s welfare, the Secretary shall enforce this subtitle and shall carry out correctly and uniformly administer this subtitle. The Secretary may prescribe regulations to carry out the provisions of this subtitle.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 506](/us/stat/97/506); [Pub. L. 99–307, § 9](/us/pl/99/307/s9), May 19, 1986, [100 Stat. 447](/us/stat/100/447).)*

Section 2103 provides the Secretary with the authority to superintend the merchant marine and those involved personnel insofar as the vessels and personnel are not subject, under other laws, to the supervision of another official. The Secretary has the duty to enforce the laws with respect to vessels and seamen and to carry out correctly and uniformly these laws and regulations. The term “superintendence” is used to indicate the Secretary’s broad responsibility for overseeing maritime safety and seamen’s welfare, including employment, shipping, navigation, and protection of the marine environment.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 2103 | 46:246:37246:689 |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1986—[Pub. L. 99–307](/us/pl/99/307) substituted “subtitle. The Secretary may prescribe regulations to carry out the provisions of this subtitle” for “subtitle and regulations prescribed under this subtitle”.
