---
title: "§ 6107. Establishment of Center for Security Technology, Analysis, Response, and Testing"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1343](/us/stat/139/1343).)"
---
# § 6107. Establishment of Center for Security Technology, Analysis, Response, and Testing

##### § 6107. Establishment of Center for Security Technology, Analysis, Response, and Testing

(a) Establishment.— The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish within the nuclear security enterprise a Center for Security Technology, Analysis, Response, and Testing.

(b) Duties.— The center established under subsection (a) shall carry out the following:

(1) Provide to the Administrator, the Chief of Defense Nuclear Security, and the management and operating contractors of the nuclear security enterprise a wide range of objective expertise on security technologies, systems, analysis, testing, and response forces.

(2) Assist the Administrator in developing standards, requirements, analysis methods, and testing criteria with respect to security.

(3) Collect, analyze, and distribute lessons learned with respect to security.

(4) Support inspections and oversight activities with respect to security.

(5) Promote professional development and training for security professionals.

(6) Provide for advance and bulk procurement for security-related acquisitions that affect multiple facilities of the nuclear security enterprise.

(7) Advocate for continual improvement and security excellence throughout the nuclear security enterprise.

(8) Such other duties as the Administrator may assign.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1343](/us/stat/139/1343).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2515 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2515), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(2)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/2).
