---
title: "§ 3773. Domestic business concerns: programs for replenishment parts"
identifier: "USC-T10-S3773"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3773"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1833(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1833/a/1), (d), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/134/4226), 4229.)"
---
# § 3773. Domestic business concerns: programs for replenishment parts

##### § 3773. Domestic business concerns: programs for replenishment parts

The Secretary of Defense shall by regulation establish programs which provide domestic business concerns an opportunity to purchase or borrow replenishment parts from the United States for the purpose of design replication or modification, to be used by such concerns in the submission of subsequent offers to sell the same or like parts to the United States. Nothing in this section limits the authority of the head of an agency to impose restrictions on such a program related to national security considerations, inventory needs of the United States, the improbability of future purchases of the same or like parts, or any additional restriction otherwise required by law.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1833(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1833/a/1), (d), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/134/4226), 4229.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The text of subsec. (d) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320), which was transferred to this section and amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(d)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/d), was based on [Pub. L. 98–525, title XII, § 1216(a)](/us/pl/98/525/tXII/s1216/a), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2597](/us/stat/98/2597).

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(d)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/d), transferred subsec. (d) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320) to this section, struck out subsec. (d) designation at beginning, and substituted “this section” for “this subsection”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
