---
title: "§ 6132. Assistants to Senate Majority and Minority Leaders for Floor Operations; establishment of positions; appointment; compensation"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6132"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6132"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–51, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/98/51/tI/s101/a), July 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 265](/us/stat/97/265).)"
---
# § 6132. Assistants to Senate Majority and Minority Leaders for Floor Operations; establishment of positions; appointment; compensation

##### § 6132. Assistants to Senate Majority and Minority Leaders for Floor Operations; establishment of positions; appointment; compensation

Effective October 1, 1983, there is established within the Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders the positions of Assistant to the Majority Leader for Floor Operations and Assistant to the Minority Leader for Floor Operations, respectively. Individuals appointed to such positions by the Majority Leader and Minority Leader, respectively, shall receive compensation at a rate fixed by the appropriate Leader not to exceed the maximum annual rate of gross compensation of the Assistant Secretary of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 98–51, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/98/51/tI/s101/a), July 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 265](/us/stat/97/265).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61h–5 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61h–5) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriation Act, 1984, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1984.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Increases in Compensation

Increases in compensation for Senate officers and employees under authority of Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970 ([Pub. L. 91–656](/us/pl/91/656)), see Salary Directives of President pro tempore of the Senate, set out as notes under [section 4571 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4571).
