---
title: "§ 40131. Aeronautics scholarships"
identifier: "USC-T51-S40131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section40131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3381](/us/stat/124/3381).)"
---
# § 40131. Aeronautics scholarships

##### § 40131. Aeronautics scholarships

(a) Establishment.— The Administrator shall establish a program of scholarships for full-time graduate students who are United States citizens and are enrolled in, or have been accepted by and have indicated their intention to enroll in, accredited Masters degree programs in aeronautical engineering or equivalent programs at institutions of higher education. Each such scholarship shall cover the costs of room, board, tuition, and fees, and may be provided for a maximum of 2 years.

(b) Implementation.— Not later than 180 days after December 30, 2005, the Administrator shall publish regulations governing the scholarship program under this section.

(c) Cooperative Training Opportunities.— Students who have been awarded a scholarship under this section shall have the opportunity for paid employment at one of the Administration Centers engaged in aeronautics research and development during the summer prior to the first year of the student’s Masters program, and between the first and second year, if applicable.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3381](/us/stat/124/3381).)*

In subsection (b), the date “December 30, 2005” is substituted for “the date of enactment of this Act” to reflect the date of enactment of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2005 ([Public Law 109–155](/us/pl/109/155), [119 Stat. 2895](/us/stat/119/2895)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40131 | 42 U.S.C. 16741. | Pub. L. 109–155, title IV, § 431, Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2927. |
