---
title: "§ 40931. Continuing evaluations"
identifier: "USC-T34-S40931"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section40931"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–180, title II, § 201](/us/pl/110/180/tII/s201), Jan. 8, 2008, [121 Stat. 2570](/us/stat/121/2570).)"
---
# § 40931. Continuing evaluations

##### § 40931. Continuing evaluations

(a) Evaluation required The Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics (referred to in this section as the “Director”) shall study and evaluate the operations of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. Such study and evaluation shall include compilations and analyses of the operations and record systems of the agencies and organizations necessary to support such System.

(b) Report on grants Not later than January 31 of each year, the Director shall submit to Congress a report containing the estimates submitted by the States under [section 40912(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s40912/b).

(c) Report on best practices Not later than January 31 of each year, the Director shall submit to Congress, and to each State participating in the National Criminal History Improvement Program, a report of the practices of the States regarding the collection, maintenance, automation, and transmittal of information relevant to determining whether a person is prohibited from possessing or receiving a firearm by Federal or State law, by the State or any other agency, or any other records relevant to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, that the Director considers to be best practices.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 2013 to complete the studies, evaluations, and reports required under this section.

*([Pub. L. 110–180, title II, § 201](/us/pl/110/180/tII/s201), Jan. 8, 2008, [121 Stat. 2570](/us/stat/121/2570).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified in a note under [section 922 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s922), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
