---
title: "§ 1102. Congressional declaration of national policy"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–255, title I, § 102](/us/pl/92/255/tI/s102), Mar. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 66](/us/stat/86/66); [Pub. L. 94–237, § 2](/us/pl/94/237/s2), Mar. 19, 1976, [90 Stat. 241](/us/stat/90/241); [Pub. L. 96–181, § 3](/us/pl/96/181/s3), Jan. 2, 1980, [93 Stat. 1309](/us/stat/93/1309).)"
---
# § 1102. Congressional declaration of national policy

##### § 1102. Congressional declaration of national policy

(1) comprehensive Federal, State, and local planning for, and effective use of, Federal assistance to States and to community-based programs to meet the urgent needs of special populations, in coordination with all other governmental and nongovernmental sources of assistance;

(2) the development and support of community-based prevention programs;

(3) the development and encouragement of effective occupational prevention and treatment programs within the Government and in cooperation with the private sector; and

(4) increased Federal commitment to research into the behavioral and biomedical etiology of, the treatment of, and the mental and physical health and social and economic consequences of, drug abuse.

*([Pub. L. 92–255, title I, § 102](/us/pl/92/255/tI/s102), Mar. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 66](/us/stat/86/66); [Pub. L. 94–237, § 2](/us/pl/94/237/s2), Mar. 19, 1976, [90 Stat. 241](/us/stat/90/241); [Pub. L. 96–181, § 3](/us/pl/96/181/s3), Jan. 2, 1980, [93 Stat. 1309](/us/stat/93/1309).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 92–255](/us/pl/92/255), Mar. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 65](/us/stat/86/65), known as the Drug Abuse Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act, which comprises this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1101) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1980—[Pub. L. 96–181](/us/pl/96/181) inserted additional declarations of policy prescribing methods and programs by which the goals are to be reached.

1976—[Pub. L. 94–237](/us/pl/94/237) substituted “objective of significantly reducing the incidence, as well as the social and personal costs, of drug abuse in the United States, and to develop and assure the implementation of” for “immediate objective of significantly reducing the incidence of drug abuse in the United States within the shortest possible period of time, and to develop”.
