---
title: "§ 5111. Report on diversity at Coast Guard Academy"
identifier: "USC-T14-S5111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section5111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8273, Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4683](/us/stat/134/4683).)"
---
# § 5111. Report on diversity at Coast Guard Academy

##### § 5111. Report on diversity at Coast Guard Academy

(a) In General.— Not later than January 15, 2021, and annually thereafter, the Commandant shall submit a report on diversity at the Coast Guard Academy to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

(b) Contents.— The report required under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) the status of the implementation of the plan required under section 8272 of the Elijah E. Cummings Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2020;

(2) specific information on outreach and recruitment activities for the preceding year, including the effectiveness of the Coast Guard Academy minority outreach team program described under section 1905 and of outreach and recruitment activities in the territories and other possessions of the United States;

(3) enrollment information about the incoming class, including the gender, race, ethnicity, religion, socioeconomic background, and State of residence of Coast Guard Academy cadets;

(4) information on class retention, outcomes, and graduation rates, including the race, gender, ethnicity, religion, socioeconomic background, and State of residence of Coast Guard Academy cadets;

(5) information on efforts to retain diverse cadets, including through professional development and professional advancement programs for staff and faculty; and

(6) a summary of reported allegations of discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, gender, or religion for the preceding 5 years.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8273, Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4683](/us/stat/134/4683).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 8272 of the Elijah E. Cummings Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2020, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is [section 8272 of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s8272), div. G, title LVXXXII [LXXXII], Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4681](/us/stat/134/4681), which is set out as a note under [section 1901 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s1901).
