---
title: "§ 441. Badlands National Park; establishment"
identifier: "USC-T16-S441"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section441"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1929, ch. 693, § 1](/us/act/1929-03-04/ch693/s1), [45 Stat. 1553](/us/stat/45/1553); [Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 611](/us/pl/95/625/tVI/s611), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3521](/us/stat/92/3521).)"
---
# § 441. Badlands National Park; establishment

##### § 441. Badlands National Park; establishment

When a quantum, satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior, of the privately owned lands lying within the area hereinafter described shall have been acquired and transferred to the United States for park purposes, without expense to the Federal Treasury, such areas are dedicated and set apart as a national park for the benefit and enjoyment of the people, under the name of the Badlands National Park: *Provided*, That the State of South Dakota shall have first constructed the highways hereinafter described.

*([Mar. 4, 1929, ch. 693, § 1](/us/act/1929-03-04/ch693/s1), [45 Stat. 1553](/us/stat/45/1553); [Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 611](/us/pl/95/625/tVI/s611), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3521](/us/stat/92/3521).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Hereinafter, referred to in text, means act Mar. 4, 1929 which is classified to sections 441 to 441e of this title. For classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Words “park” and “Park” substituted in text for “monument” and “Monument”, respectively, pursuant to [Pub. L. 95–625, § 611](/us/pl/95/625/s611), which is classified to [section 441e–1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s441e–1) and which redesignated the Badlands National Monument as the Badlands National Park.

#### Ben Reifel Visitor Center

[Pub. L. 101–512, title I](/us/pl/101/512/tI), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/104/1923), provided in part that: “hereafter the Cedar Pass Visitor Center at Badlands National Park, South Dakota, shall be known as the Ben Reifel Visitor Center”.
