---
title: "§ 7278a. Availability of funds for energy and water development for multiyear contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements of $1,000,000 or less"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7278a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7278a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–113, div. D, title III, § 306](/us/pl/114/113/dD/tIII/s306), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2418](/us/stat/129/2418).)"
---
# § 7278a. Availability of funds for energy and water development for multiyear contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements of $1,000,000 or less

##### § 7278a. Availability of funds for energy and water development for multiyear contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements of $1,000,000 or less

Notwithstanding section 301(c) of this Act, none of the funds made available under the heading “Department of Energy—Energy Programs—Science” in this or any subsequent Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies appropriations Act for any fiscal year may be used for a multiyear contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or Other Transaction Agreement of $1,000,000 or less unless the contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or Other Transaction Agreement is funded for the full period of performance as anticipated at the time of award.

*([Pub. L. 114–113, div. D, title III, § 306](/us/pl/114/113/dD/tIII/s306), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2418](/us/stat/129/2418).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 301(c) of this Act, referred to in text, means [section 301(c) of Pub. L. 114–113](/us/pl/114/113/s301/c), div. D, title III, Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2416](/us/stat/129/2416), which is not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
