---
title: "§ 932. Administration of oaths"
identifier: "USC-T14-S932"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section932"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 545](/us/stat/63/545), § 636; renumbered § 932, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat/132/4205).)"
---
# § 932. Administration of oaths

##### § 932. Administration of oaths

(a) Such commissioned and warrant officers of the Coast Guard as may be designated by the Commandant may, pursuant to rules prescribed by the Commandant, exercise the general powers of a notary public in the administration of oaths for the following purposes:

(1) execution, acknowledgment, and attestation of instruments and papers, oaths of allegiance in connection with recruiting, oaths in connection with courts and boards, and all other notarial acts in connection with the proper execution of Coast Guard functions;

(2) execution, acknowledgment, and attestation of instruments and papers, and all other notarial acts in time of war or national emergency; and

(3) execution, acknowledgment, and attestation of instruments and papers, and all other notarial acts in Alaska and places beyond the continental limits of the United States where the Coast Guard is serving.

(b) No fee of any character shall be charged by any commissioned or warrant officer for performing notarial acts. The signature and indication of grade of any commissioned or warrant officer performing any notarial act shall be prima facie evidence of his authority.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 545](/us/stat/63/545), § 636; renumbered § 932, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 107(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s107/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4205](/us/stat/132/4205).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed., §§ 26, 27 ([Apr. 16, 1908, ch. 145, § 12](/us/act/1908-04-16/ch145/s12), [35 Stat. 63](/us/stat/35/63); [June 5, 1920, ch. 235, § 1](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch235/s1), [41 Stat. 880](/us/stat/41/880)).

Said sections are rewritten, the provisions concerning oaths being broadened to conform more closely to law applicable to officers of the Navy (see title 34, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 217a). 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 636 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s636) as this section.
