---
title: "§ 5197c. Annual report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5197c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5197c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–288, title VI, § 624](/us/pl/93/288/tVI/s624), as added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. C, title XXXIV, § 3411(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/337/dC/tXXXIV/s3411/a/3), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 3110](/us/stat/108/3110); amended [Pub. L. 111–351, § 3(c)(2)](/us/pl/111/351/s3/c/2), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3864](/us/stat/124/3864).)"
---
# § 5197c. Annual report to Congress

##### § 5197c. Annual report to Congress

The Administrator shall annually submit a written report to the President and Congress covering expenditures, contributions, work, and accomplishments of the Federal Emergency Management Agency pursuant to this subchapter, accompanied by such recommendations as the Administrator considers appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 93–288, title VI, § 624](/us/pl/93/288/tVI/s624), as added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. C, title XXXIV, § 3411(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/337/dC/tXXXIV/s3411/a/3), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 3110](/us/stat/108/3110); amended [Pub. L. 111–351, § 3(c)(2)](/us/pl/111/351/s3/c/2), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3864](/us/stat/124/3864).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 2258 of the former Appendix to Title 50, War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–337, § 3412(a)](/us/pl/103/337/s3412/a).

#### Amendments

2011—[Pub. L. 111–351](/us/pl/111/351) substituted “Administrator” for “Director” in two places.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see [section 315(a)(1) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s315/a/1), Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
