---
title: "§ 50402. Maritime Transportation System National Advisory Committee"
identifier: "USC-T46-S50402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section50402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8332(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4703](/us/stat/134/4703), § 55502; renumbered § 50402, [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXV, § 3512(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXV/s3512/a/3), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/135/2239).)"
---
# § 50402. Maritime Transportation System National Advisory Committee

##### § 50402. Maritime Transportation System National Advisory Committee

(a) Establishment.— There is established a Maritime Transportation System National Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(b) Function.— The Committee shall advise the Secretary of Transportation on matters relating to the United States maritime transportation system and its seamless integration with other segments of the transportation system, including the viability of the United States Merchant Marine.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The Committee shall consist of 27 members appointed by the Secretary of Transportation in accordance with this section and section 15109.

(2) Expertise.— Each member of the Committee shall have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters relating to the function of the Committee.

(3) Representation.— Members of the Committee shall be appointed as follows:

(A) At least one member shall represent the Environmental Protection Agency.

(B) At least one member shall represent the Department of Commerce.

(C) At least one member shall represent the Corps of Engineers.

(D) At least one member shall represent the Coast Guard.

(E) At least one member shall represent Customs and Border Protection.

(F) At least one member shall represent State and local governmental entities.

(G) Additional members shall represent private sector entities that reflect a cross-section of maritime industries, including port and water stakeholders, academia, and labor.

(H) The Secretary may appoint additional representatives from other Federal agencies as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(4) Restrictions on members representing federal agencies.— Members of the Committee that represent Federal agencies shall not—

(A) comprise more than one-third of the total membership of the Committee or of any subcommittee therein; or

(B) serve as the chair or co-chair of the Committee or of any subcommittee therein.

(5) Administration.— For purposes of section 15109—

(A) the Committee shall be treated as a committee established under chapter 151; and

(B) the Secretary of Transportation shall fulfill all duties and responsibilities and have all authorities of the Secretary of Homeland Security with regard to the Committee.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8332(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4703](/us/stat/134/4703), § 55502; renumbered § 50402, [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXV, § 3512(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXV/s3512/a/3), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/135/2239).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) renumbered [section 55502 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s55502) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Treatment of Existing Committee

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8332(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4704](/us/stat/134/4704), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXV, § 3512(b)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXV/s3512/b), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/135/2239), provided that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law— “(1) an advisory committee substantially similar to the Committee established by [section 50402 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s50402), United States Code, and that was in force or in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 1, 2021], including the charter, membership, and other aspects of such advisory committee, may remain in force or in effect for the 2-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this section; and “(2) during such 2-year period—“(A) requirements relating the Maritime Transportation System National Advisory Committee established by such section shall be treated as satisfied by such substantially similar advisory committee; and “(B) the enactment of this section shall not be the basis—“(i) to deem, find, or declare such committee, including the charter, membership, and other aspects thereof, void, not in force, or not in effect; “(ii) to suspend the activities of such committee; or “(iii) to bar the members of such committee from a meeting.”
