---
title: "§ 3053. Travel on any common carrier for certain intelligence collection personnel"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3053"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3053"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 116, as added [Pub. L. 106–567, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/106/567/tIII/s305/a), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2838](/us/stat/114/2838); amended [Pub. L. 108–458, title I](/us/pl/108/458/tI), §§ 1071(a)(1)(S), (3)(B), 1072(a)(5), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3689](/us/stat/118/3689), 3690, 3692; [Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, § 424](/us/pl/111/259/tIV/s424), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2728](/us/stat/124/2728).)"
---
# § 3053. Travel on any common carrier for certain intelligence collection personnel

##### § 3053. Travel on any common carrier for certain intelligence collection personnel

(a) In general Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of National Intelligence may authorize travel on any common carrier when such travel, in the discretion of the Director—

(1) is consistent with intelligence community mission requirements, or

(2) is required for cover purposes, operational needs, or other exceptional circumstances necessary for the successful performance of an intelligence community mission.

(b) Authorized delegation of duty The Director of National Intelligence may only delegate the authority granted by this section to the Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, or with respect to employees of the Central Intelligence Agency, to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, who may delegate such authority to other appropriate officials of the Central Intelligence Agency.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 116, as added [Pub. L. 106–567, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/106/567/tIII/s305/a), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2838](/us/stat/114/2838); amended [Pub. L. 108–458, title I](/us/pl/108/458/tI), §§ 1071(a)(1)(S), (3)(B), 1072(a)(5), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3689](/us/stat/118/3689), 3690, 3692; [Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, § 424](/us/pl/111/259/tIV/s424), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2728](/us/stat/124/2728).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 404k of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404k) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–259](/us/pl/111/259) substituted “, who may delegate such authority to other appropriate officials of the Central Intelligence Agency.” for the period.

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–458, § 1071(a)(1)(S)](/us/pl/108/458/s1071/a/1/S), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–458, § 1072(a)(5)](/us/pl/108/458/s1072/a/5), which directed amendment of subsec. (b) by substituting “to the Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, or with respect to employees of the Central Intelligence Agency, to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency” for “to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, or with respect to employees of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director may delegate such authority to the Deputy Director for Operations”, was executed by making the substitution for “to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, or with respect to employees of the Central Intelligence Agency the Director may delegate such authority to the Deputy Director for Operations”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

[Pub. L. 108–458, § 1071(a)(3)(B)](/us/pl/108/458/s1071/a/3/B), which directed amendment of subsec. (b) by substituting “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director” each place it appeared, was executed by making the substitution the first place it appeared to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

For Determination by President that amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
