---
title: "§ 717. Limitation on administrative leave"
identifier: "USC-T38-S717"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section717"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–315, title V, § 503(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/315/tV/s503/a/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1568](/us/stat/130/1568).)"
---
# § 717. Limitation on administrative leave

##### § 717. Limitation on administrative leave

(a) In General.— Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary may not place any covered individual on administrative leave, or any other type of paid non-duty status without charge to leave, for more than a total of 14 days during any 365-day period.

(b) Waiver.— The Secretary may waive the limitation under subsection (a) and extend the administrative leave or other paid non-duty status without charge to leave of a covered individual placed on such leave or status under subsection (a) if the Secretary submits to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a detailed explanation of the reasons the individual was placed on administrative leave or other paid non-duty status without charge to leave and the reasons for the extension of such leave or status. Such explanation shall include the job title and grade of the covered individual and the location where the individual is employed.

(c) Covered Individual.— In this section, the term “covered individual” means an employee of the Department—

(1) who is subject to an investigation for purposes of determining whether such individual should be subject to any disciplinary action under this title or title 5; or

(2) against whom any disciplinary action is proposed or initiated under this title or title 5.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–315, title V, § 503(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/315/tV/s503/a/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1568](/us/stat/130/1568).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 717 and 718 were renumbered sections 1917 and 1918 of this title, respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 114–315, title V, § 503(b)](/us/pl/114/315/tV/s503/b), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1568](/us/stat/130/1568), provided that: “[Section 717 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s717), United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(1), shall apply with respect to any 365-day period beginning on or after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 16, 2016].”
