---
title: "§ 3243. Periodic reports on technology strategy of intelligence community"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3243"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3243"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1113, as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title VIII, § 823(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tVIII/s823/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 1021](/us/stat/136/1021).)"
---
# § 3243. Periodic reports on technology strategy of intelligence community

##### § 3243. Periodic reports on technology strategy of intelligence community

(a) Reports On a basis that is not less frequent than once every 4 years, the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of such other agencies as the Director considers appropriate, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a comprehensive report on the technology strategy of the intelligence community, which shall be designed to support the maintenance of the leadership of the United States in critical and emerging technologies essential to the national security of the United States.

(b) Elements Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include the following:

(1) An assessment of technologies critical to the national security of the United States, particularly those technologies with respect to which foreign countries that are adversarial to the United States have or are poised to match or surpass the technology leadership of the United States.

(2) A review of current technology policies of the intelligence community, including long-term goals.

(3) An identification of sectors and supply chains the Director determines to be of the greatest strategic importance to national security.

(4) An identification of opportunities to protect the leadership of the United States, and the allies and partners of the United States, in critical technologies, including through targeted export controls, investment screening, and counterintelligence activities.

(5) An identification of research and development areas the Director determines critical to the national security of the United States, including areas in which the private sector does not focus.

(6) Recommendations for growing talent in key critical and emerging technologies and enhancing the ability of the intelligence community to recruit and retain individuals with critical skills relating to such technologies.

(7) An identification of opportunities to improve the leadership of the United States in critical technologies, including opportunities to develop international partnerships to reinforce domestic policy actions, develop new markets, engage in collaborative research, and maintain an international environment that reflects the values of the United States and protects the interests of the United States.

(8) A technology annex to establish an approach for the identification, prioritization, development, and fielding of emerging technologies critical to the mission of the intelligence community.

(9) Such other information as the Director determines may be necessary to inform Congress on matters relating to the technology strategy of the intelligence community and related implications for the national security of the United States.

(c) Form of annex Each annex submitted under subsection (b)(8) may be submitted in classified form.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1113, as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title VIII, § 823(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tVIII/s823/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 1021](/us/stat/136/1021).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### First Report

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title VIII, § 823(b)](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tVIII/s823/b), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 1022](/us/stat/136/1022), provided that: “Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 15, 2022], the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees the first report required under section 1113 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3243](/us/usc/t50/s3243)], as added by subsection (a).”

[For definition of “congressional intelligence committees” as used in [section 823(b) of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dX/s823/b), set out above, see [section 2 of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dX/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).]
