---
title: "§ 604. Effect of transfer"
identifier: "USC-T47-S604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VII, § 704, formerly title VI, § 604, [48 Stat. 1103](/us/stat/48/1103); renumbered title VII, § 704, [Pub. L. 98–549, § 6(a)](/us/pl/98/549/s6/a), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2804](/us/stat/98/2804); amended [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 304(a)(14)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s304/a/14), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4297](/us/stat/108/4297).)"
---
# § 604. Effect of transfer

##### § 604. Effect of transfer

(a) Orders, determinations, rules, regulations, permits, contracts, licenses, and privileges All orders, determinations, rules, regulations, permits, contracts, licenses, and privileges which have been issued, made, or granted by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Federal Radio Commission, or the Postmaster General, under any provision of law repealed or amended by this chapter or in the exercise of duties, powers, or functions transferred to the Commission by this chapter, and which are in effect at the time this section takes effect, shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, superseded, or repealed by the Commission or by operation of law.

(b) Availability of records All records transferred to the Commission under this chapter shall be available for use by the Commission to the same extent as if such records were originally records of the Commission. All final valuations and determinations of depreciation charges by the Interstate Commerce Commission with respect to common carriers engaged in radio or wire communication, and all orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission with respect to such valuations and determinations, shall have the same force and effect as though made by the Commission under this chapter.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VII, § 704, formerly title VI, § 604, [48 Stat. 1103](/us/stat/48/1103); renumbered title VII, § 704, [Pub. L. 98–549, § 6(a)](/us/pl/98/549/s6/a), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2804](/us/stat/98/2804); amended [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 304(a)(14)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s304/a/14), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4297](/us/stat/108/4297).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1994—Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 103–414](/us/pl/103/414) redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and struck out former subsec. (b) which read as follows: “Any proceeding, hearing, or investigation commenced or pending before the Federal Radio Commission, the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the Postmaster General, at the time of the organization of the Commission, shall be continued by the Commission in the same manner as though originally commenced before the Commission, if such proceeding, hearing, or investigation (1) involves the administration of duties, powers, and functions transferred to the Commission by this chapter, or (2) involves the exercise of jurisdiction similar to that granted to the Commission under the provisions of this chapter.”

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 103–414, § 303(a)(14)(A)](/us/pl/103/414/s303/a/14/A), struck out subsec. (d) which read as follows: “The provisions of this chapter shall not affect suits commenced prior to the date of the organization of the Commission; and all such suits shall be continued, proceedings therein had, appeals therein taken and judgments therein rendered, in the same manner and with the same effect as if this chapter had not been passed. No suit, action, or other proceeding lawfully commenced by or against any agency or officer of the United States, in relation to the discharge of official duties, shall abate by reason of any transfer of authority, power, and duties from such agency or officer to the Commission under the provisions of this chapter, but the court, upon motion or supplemental petition filed at any time within twelve months after such transfer, showing the necessity for a survival of such suit, action, or other proceeding to obtain a settlement of the questions involved, may allow the same to be maintained by or against the Commission.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Office of Postmaster General of Post Office Department abolished and functions, powers, and duties of Postmaster General transferred to United States Postal Service by [Pub. L. 91–375, § 4(a)](/us/pl/91/375/s4/a), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 773](/us/stat/84/773), set out as a note under [section 201 of Title 39](/us/usc/t39/s201), Postal Service.

#### Abolition of Interstate Commerce Commission and Transfer of Functions

Interstate Commerce Commission abolished and functions of Commission transferred, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), to Surface Transportation Board effective Jan. 1, 1996, by [section 1302 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s1302), Transportation, and [section 101 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s101), set out as a note under [section 1301 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s1301). References to Interstate Commerce Commission deemed to refer to Surface Transportation Board, a member or employee of the Board, or Secretary of Transportation, as appropriate, see [section 205 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s205), set out as a note under [section 1301 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
