---
title: "§ 11291. Providing information for personnel of Social Security Administration"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11291"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11291"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–660, title IX, § 961](/us/pl/99/660/tIX/s961), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3814](/us/stat/100/3814).)"
---
# § 11291. Providing information for personnel of Social Security Administration

##### § 11291. Providing information for personnel of Social Security Administration

(a) The Secretary shall develop a mechanism to ensure the prompt provision of the most current information concerning Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias to the Commissioner of Social Security, particularly information which will increase the understanding of personnel of the Social Security Administration concerning such disease and dementias.

(b) The Commissioner of Social Security shall ensure that information received under subsection (a) is provided to personnel of the Social Security Administration, particularly personnel involved in the process of determining, for purposes of titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t42/s401) et seq., 1381 et seq.], whether an individual is under a disability.

*([Pub. L. 99–660, title IX, § 961](/us/pl/99/660/tIX/s961), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3814](/us/stat/100/3814).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act are classified generally to subchapters II (§ 401 et seq.) and XVI (§ 1381 et seq.), respectively, of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.
