---
title: "§ 1741c–2. Coordination with transportation authorities and industry on Department of State travel advisories"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1741c–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1741c–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title III, § 305B](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tIII/s305B), as added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXVII, § 7705](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXVII/s7705), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2554](/us/stat/138/2554).)"
---
# § 1741c–2. Coordination with transportation authorities and industry on Department of State travel advisories

##### § 1741c–2. Coordination with transportation authorities and industry on Department of State travel advisories

(a) Coordination with the Department of Homeland Security

(1) In general The Secretary of State shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and representatives of any other Federal agency determined necessary, and in consultation with the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs and the Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs, develop messaging and informational guidance to be delivered at all United States international airports and on relevant United States Government websites warning United States nationals of the risks of wrongful or unlawful detention or hostage-taking in covered countries.

(2) Messaging and guidance The messaging and guidance described under paragraph (1) may include—

(A) posters, brochures, and other informational materials;

(B) web banners or other warnings to be displayed on relevant United States Government websites and webpages;

(C) verbal warnings at United States international airports to United States nationals whose destinations, to the extent they are discernable, are covered countries; and

(D) other methods deemed appropriate by the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and representatives of any other Federal agency determined necessary.

(b) Department of State coordination with United States airlines The Secretary of State shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and representatives of any other Federal agency determined necessary, and in consultation with the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs and Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Consular Affairs, work with United States airlines to provide warnings about the risk of wrongful or unlawful detention and hostage-taking to United States nationals booking travel through their airlines to a covered country.

(c) Report Not later than one year after December 23, 2024, the Secretary of State shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and representatives of any other Federal agency determined necessary, submit to Congress a report detailing—

(1) the additional steps taken to warn United States nationals of the risks of wrongful or unlawful detention and hostage-taking abroad, including those described in this section;

(2) efforts to improve the visibility and expand the reach of Department of State travel advisories concerning the risks to United States nationals of wrongful or unlawful detention and hostage-taking abroad; and

(3) additional recommendations on steps the United States Government might take to improve the awareness of United States nationals of the risk of wrongful or unlawful detention and hostage-taking abroad.

(d) Covered country defined In this section, the term “covered country” means a country for which a Department of State travel advisory contains either the “K—Kidnapping or Hostage Taking” or “D—Wrongful Detention” Risk Indicators.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title III, § 305B](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tIII/s305B), as added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXVII, § 7705](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXVII/s7705), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2554](/us/stat/138/2554).)*
