---
title: "§ 547. Agricultural commodities, foods, and cotton or woolen goods"
identifier: "USC-T40-S547"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section547"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/116/1089).)"
---
# § 547. Agricultural commodities, foods, and cotton or woolen goods

##### § 547. Agricultural commodities, foods, and cotton or woolen goods

(a) Policies.— The Administrator of General Services shall consult with the Secretary of Agriculture to formulate policies for the disposal of surplus agricultural commodities, surplus foods processed from agricultural commodities, and surplus cotton or woolen goods. The policies shall be formulated to prevent surplus agricultural commodities, or surplus foods processed from agricultural commodities, from being dumped on the market in a disorderly manner and disrupting the market prices for agricultural commodities.

(b) Transfers to Department of Agriculture.—

(1) In general.— The Administrator shall transfer without charge to the Department of Agriculture any surplus agricultural commodities, foods, and cotton or woolen goods for disposal, when the Secretary determines that a transfer is necessary for the Secretary to carry out responsibilities for price support or stabilization.

(2) Deposit of receipts.— Receipts resulting from disposal by the Department under this subsection shall be deposited pursuant to any authority available to the Secretary. When applicable, however, net proceeds from the sale of surplus property transferred under this subsection shall be credited pursuant to [section 572(a) of this title](/us/usc/t40/s572/a).

(3) Limitation of sales.— Surplus farm commodities transferred under this subsection may not be sold, other than for export, in quantities exceeding, or at prices less than, the applicable quantities and prices for sales of those commodities by the Commodity Credit Corporation.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/116/1089).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 547(a) | 40:484(g). | June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title II, § 203(g), (h), 63 Stat. 386. |
| 547(b) | 40:484(h). |  |
