---
title: "§ 20713. Encouraging a victim-centered approach to training of Federal law enforcement personnel"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–164, title II, § 213](/us/pl/109/164/tII/s213), formerly [Pub. L. 115–393, title V, § 501](/us/pl/115/393/tV/s501), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5275](/us/stat/132/5275); renumbered [§ 213 of Pub. L. 109–164](/us/pl/109/164/s213), [Pub. L. 117–347, title I, § 106(b)(3)](/us/pl/117/347/tI/s106/b/3), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6204](/us/stat/136/6204).)"
---
# § 20713. Encouraging a victim-centered approach to training of Federal law enforcement personnel

##### § 20713. Encouraging a victim-centered approach to training of Federal law enforcement personnel

(a) Training curriculum improvements The Attorney General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and Secretary of Labor shall periodically, but not less frequently than once every 2 years, implement improvements to the training programs on human trafficking for employees of the Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, and Department of Labor, respectively, after consultation with survivors of human trafficking, or trafficking victims service providers, and Federal law enforcement agencies responsible for the prevention, deterrence, and prosecution of offenses involving human trafficking (such as individuals serving as, or who have served as, investigators in a Federal agency and who have expertise in identifying human trafficking victims and investigating human trafficking cases).

(b) Advanced training curriculum

(1) In general Not later than 1 year after December 21, 2018, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall develop an advanced training curriculum, to supplement the basic curriculum for investigative personnel of the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security, respectively, that—

(A) emphasizes a multidisciplinary, collaborative effort by law enforcement officers who provide a broad range of investigation and prosecution options in response to perpetrators, and victim service providers, who offer services and resources for victims;

(B) provides guidance about the recruitment techniques employed by human traffickers to clarify that an individual who knowingly solicits or patronizes a commercial sex act from a person who was a minor (consistent with [section 1591(c) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1591/c)) or was subject to force, fraud, or coercion is guilty of an offense under chapter 77 of title 18 and is a party to a human trafficking offense; and

(C) explains that—

(i) victims of sex or labor trafficking often engage in criminal acts as a direct result of severe trafficking in persons and such individuals are victims of a crime and affirmative measures should be taken to avoid arresting, charging, or prosecuting such individuals for any offense that is the direct result of their victimization; and

(ii) a comprehensive approach to eliminating human trafficking should include demand reduction as a component.

(2) Use of curriculum The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide training using the curriculum developed under paragraph (1) to—

(A) all law enforcement officers employed by the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security, respectively, who may be involved in the investigation of human trafficking offenses; and

(B) members of task forces that participate in the investigation of human trafficking offenses.

*([Pub. L. 109–164, title II, § 213](/us/pl/109/164/tII/s213), formerly [Pub. L. 115–393, title V, § 501](/us/pl/115/393/tV/s501), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5275](/us/stat/132/5275); renumbered [§ 213 of Pub. L. 109–164](/us/pl/109/164/s213), [Pub. L. 117–347, title I, § 106(b)(3)](/us/pl/117/347/tI/s106/b/3), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6204](/us/stat/136/6204).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 213 of Pub. L. 109–164](/us/pl/109/164/s213). Subsec. (c) of [section 213 of Pub. L. 109–164](/us/pl/109/164/s213) amended [section 7105 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7105), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

Section was formerly classified to [section 20907b of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20907b) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 117–347](/us/pl/117/347).
