---
title: "§ 5802. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5802"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5802"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–174, § 3](/us/pl/116/174/s3), Oct. 20, 2020, [134 Stat. 839](/us/stat/134/839).)"
---
# § 5802. Definitions

##### § 5802. Definitions

(1) Business incubator The term “business incubator” means an organization that—

(A) provides physical workspace and facilities resources to startups and established businesses; and

(B) is designed to accelerate the growth and success of businesses through a variety of business support resources and services, including—

(i) access to capital, business education, and counseling;

(ii) networking opportunities;

(iii) mentorship opportunities; and

(iv) other services intended to aid in developing a business.

(2) Eligible applicant The term “eligible applicant” means an applicant eligible to apply for a grant under [section 5803(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5803/b).

(3) Indian tribe The term “Indian tribe” has the meaning given the term in [section 5304 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(4) Institution of higher education The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given the term in [section 1001 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

(5) Native American; Native The terms “Native American” and “Native” have the meaning given the term “Indian” in [section 5304 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(6) Native business The term “Native business” means a business concern that is at least 51-percent owned and controlled by 1 or more Native Americans.

(7) Native entrepreneur The term “Native entrepreneur” means an entrepreneur who is a Native American.

(8) Program The term “program” means the program established under [section 5803(a) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5803/a).

(9) Reservation The term “reservation” has the meaning given the term in [section 1452 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1452).

(10) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(11) Tribal college or university The term “tribal college or university” has the meaning given the term “Tribal College or University” in [section 1059c(b) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1059c/b).

*([Pub. L. 116–174, § 3](/us/pl/116/174/s3), Oct. 20, 2020, [134 Stat. 839](/us/stat/134/839).)*
