---
title: "§ 276. Certain indirect contributions to political parties"
identifier: "USC-T26-S276"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section276"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 89–368, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/89/368/tIII/s301/a), Mar. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 66](/us/stat/80/66); amended [Pub. L. 90–364, title I, § 108(a)](/us/pl/90/364/tI/s108/a), June 28, 1968, [82 Stat. 268](/us/stat/82/268); [Pub. L. 93–443, title IV, § 406(d)](/us/pl/93/443/tIV/s406/d), Oct. 15, 1974, [88 Stat. 1296](/us/stat/88/1296).)"
---
# § 276. Certain indirect contributions to political parties

##### § 276. Certain indirect contributions to political parties

(a) Disallowance of deduction No deduction otherwise allowable under this chapter shall be allowed for any amount paid or incurred for—

(1) advertising in a convention program of a political party, or in any other publication if any part of the proceeds of such publication directly or indirectly inures (or is intended to inure) to or for the use of a political party or a political candidate,

(2) admission to any dinner or program, if any part of the proceeds of such dinner or program directly or indirectly inures (or is intended to inure) to or for the use of a political party or a political candidate, or

(3) admission to an inaugural ball, inaugural gala, inaugural parade, or inaugural concert, or to any similar event which is identified with a political party or a political candidate.

(b) Definitions For purposes of this section—

(1) Political party The term “political party” means—

(A) a political party;

(B) a National, State, or local committee of a political party; or

(C) a committee, association, or organization, whether incorporated or not, which directly or indirectly accepts contributions (as defined in section 271(b)(2)) or make expenditures (as defined in section 271(b)(3)) for the purpose of influencing or attempting to influence the selection, nomination, or election of any individual to any Federal, State, or local elective public office, or the election of presidential and vice-presidential electors, whether or not such individual or electors are selected, nominated, or elected.

(2) Proceeds inuring to or for the use of political candidates Proceeds shall be treated as inuring to or for the use of a political candidate only if—

(A) such proceeds may be used directly or indirectly for the purpose of furthering his candidacy for selection, nomination, or election to any elective public office, and

(B) such proceeds are not received by such candidate in the ordinary course of a trade or business (other than the trade or business of holding elective public office).

(c) Cross reference For disallowance of certain entertainment, etc., expenses, see section 274.

*(Added [Pub. L. 89–368, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/89/368/tIII/s301/a), Mar. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 66](/us/stat/80/66); amended [Pub. L. 90–364, title I, § 108(a)](/us/pl/90/364/tI/s108/a), June 28, 1968, [82 Stat. 268](/us/stat/82/268); [Pub. L. 93–443, title IV, § 406(d)](/us/pl/93/443/tIV/s406/d), Oct. 15, 1974, [88 Stat. 1296](/us/stat/88/1296).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1974—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 93–443](/us/pl/93/443) struck out subsec. (c) relating to advertising in a convention program of a national political convention, and redesignated subsec. (d) as (c).

1968—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 90–364](/us/pl/90/364) added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1974 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–443](/us/pl/93/443) applicable with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1974, see [section 410(c)(1) of Pub. L. 93–443](/us/pl/93/443/s410/c/1), set out as a note under [section 30101 of Title 52](/us/usc/t52/s30101), Voting and Elections.

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

[Pub. L. 90–364, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/90/364/tI/s108/b), June 28, 1968, [82 Stat. 269](/us/stat/82/269), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to amounts paid or incurred on or after January 1, 1968.”

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 89–368, title III, § 301(c)](/us/pl/89/368/tIII/s301/c), Mar. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 67](/us/stat/80/67), provided that: “The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) [enacting this section] shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1965, but only with respect to amounts paid or incurred after the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 15, 1966].”

#### Program Advertising for Presidential and Vice-Presidential Nominating Conventions

[Pub. L. 90–346](/us/pl/90/346), June 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 183](/us/stat/82/183), provided for advertising in a convention program of a national political convention, applicable with respect to amounts paid or incurred on or after Jan. 1, 1968, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 93–625, § 10(g)](/us/pl/93/625/s10/g), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2119](/us/stat/88/2119).
