---
title: "§ 11295. Criteria for grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11295"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11295"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title IV, § 406](/us/pl/93/415/tIV/s406), formerly § 407, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 660](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s660), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2129](/us/stat/98/2129); renumbered § 406 and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII](/us/pl/100/690/tVII), §§ 7288, 7290, Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4461](/us/stat/102/4461).)"
---
# § 11295. Criteria for grants

##### § 11295. Criteria for grants

(a) Establishment of priorities and criteria; publication in Federal Register In carrying out the programs authorized by this subchapter, the Administrator shall establish—

Not less than 60 days before establishing such priorities and criteria, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal Register for public comment a statement of such proposed priorities and criteria.

(1) annual research, demonstration, and service program priorities for making grants and contracts pursuant to [section 11294 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11294); and

(2) criteria based on merit for making such grants and contracts.

(b) Competitive selection process for grant or contract exceeding $50,000 No grant or contract exceeding $50,000 shall be made under this subchapter unless the grantee or contractor has been selected by a competitive process which includes public announcement of the availability of funds for such grant or contract, general criteria for the selection of recipients or contractors, and a description of the application process and application review process.

(c) Multiple grants or contracts to same grantee or contractor Multiple grants or contracts to the same grantee or contractor within any 1 year to support activities having the same general purpose shall be deemed to be a single grant for the purpose of this subsection, but multiple grants or contracts to the same grantee or contractor to support clearly distinct activities shall be considered separate grants or contractors.11 So in original. Probably should be “contracts.”

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title IV, § 406](/us/pl/93/415/tIV/s406), formerly § 407, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 660](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s660), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2129](/us/stat/98/2129); renumbered § 406 and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII](/us/pl/100/690/tVII), §§ 7288, 7290, Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4461](/us/stat/102/4461).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5776 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5776), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 406 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s406) was renumbered section 405 and is classified to [section 11294 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11294).

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–690, § 7290(b)](/us/pl/100/690/s7290/b), which purported to make technical amendment to reference to [section 5775 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s5775) to reflect renumbering of corresponding section of original act, could not be executed to text because of general amendment of section by [Pub. L. 100–690, § 7288](/us/pl/100/690/s7288), see below.

[Pub. L. 100–690, § 7288](/us/pl/100/690/s7288), amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The Administrator, in consultation with the Advisory Board, shall establish annual research, demonstration, and service program priorities for making grants and contracts pursuant to [section 5775 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s5775) and, not less than 60 days before establishing such priorities, shall publish in the Federal Register for public comment a statement of such proposed priorities.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) effective Oct. 1, 1988, see [section 7296(a) of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s7296/a), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).
