---
title: "§ 42303. Use of insecticides in passenger aircraft"
identifier: "USC-T49-S42303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section42303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–95, title IV, § 415(a)](/us/pl/112/95/tIV/s415/a), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 95](/us/stat/126/95); amended [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIV/s404), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3329](/us/stat/132/3329).)"
---
# § 42303. Use of insecticides in passenger aircraft

##### § 42303. Use of insecticides in passenger aircraft

(a) Information To Be Provided on the Internet.— The Secretary of Transportation shall establish, and make available to the general public, an Internet Web site that contains a listing of countries that may require an air carrier or foreign air carrier to treat an aircraft passenger cabin with insecticides prior to a flight in foreign air transportation to that country or to apply an aerosol insecticide in an aircraft cabin used for such a flight when the cabin is occupied with passengers.

(b) Required Disclosures.— An air carrier, foreign air carrier, or ticket agent selling, in the United States, a ticket for a flight in foreign air transportation to a country listed on the internet website established under subsection (a) shall—

(1) disclose, on its own internet website or through other means, that the destination country may require the air carrier or foreign air carrier to treat an aircraft passenger cabin with insecticides prior to the flight or to apply an aerosol insecticide in an aircraft cabin used for such a flight when the cabin is occupied with passengers; and

(2) refer the purchaser of the ticket to the internet website established under subsection (a) for additional information.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–95, title IV, § 415(a)](/us/pl/112/95/tIV/s415/a), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 95](/us/stat/126/95); amended [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIV/s404), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3329](/us/stat/132/3329).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “An air carrier, foreign air carrier, or ticket agent selling, in the United States, a ticket for a flight in foreign air transportation to a country listed on the Internet Web site established under subsection (a) shall refer the purchaser of the ticket to the Internet Web site established under subsection (a) for additional information.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Requirements of this section to begin to apply 60 days after Feb. 14, 2012, except as otherwise provided, see [section 415(c) of Pub. L. 112–95](/us/pl/112/95/s415/c), set out as a note under [section 42301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s42301).
