---
title: "§ 430g–4. Gettysburg National Military Park boundary revision"
identifier: "USC-T16-S430g–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section430g–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–377, § 1](/us/pl/101/377/s1), Aug. 17, 1990, [104 Stat. 464](/us/stat/104/464); [Pub. L. 106–290, § 1](/us/pl/106/290/s1), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 921](/us/stat/114/921); [Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3034(a)](/us/pl/113/291/dB/tXXX/s3034/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3777](/us/stat/128/3777).)"
---
# § 430g–4. Gettysburg National Military Park boundary revision

##### § 430g–4. Gettysburg National Military Park boundary revision

(a) Lands included in park In furtherance of the purposes of [section 430g of this title](/us/usc/t16/s430g), the Gettysburg National Military Park (hereafter in sections 430g–4 to 430g–10 of this title referred to as the “park”) shall on and after August 17, 1990, comprise the lands and interests in lands within the bound­ary generally depicted as “Park Boundary” on the map entitled “Gettysburg National Military Park Boundary Map”, numbered NPS 305/80034–B, and dated March 1990, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Director of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.

(b) Additional land In addition to the land identified in subsection (a), the park shall also include—

(1) the property commonly known as the Wills House located in the Borough of Gettysburg and identified as Tract P02–1 on the map entitled “Gettysburg National Military Park” numbered MARO 305/80,011 Segment 2, and dated April 1981, revised May 14, 1999; and

(2) the properties depicted as “Proposed Addition” on the map entitled “Gettysburg National Military Park Proposed Boundary Addition”, numbered 305/80,045, and dated January, 2010 (2 sheets), including—

(A) the property commonly known as the “Gettysburg Train Station”; and

(B) the property located adjacent to Plum Run in Cumberland Township.

(c) Lands excluded from park Lands and interests in lands outside of the boundary so depicted as “Park Boundary” on the maps referred to in subsections (a) and (b) are hereby excluded from the park and shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of [section 430g–5(c) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s430g–5/c).

*([Pub. L. 101–377, § 1](/us/pl/101/377/s1), Aug. 17, 1990, [104 Stat. 464](/us/stat/104/464); [Pub. L. 106–290, § 1](/us/pl/106/290/s1), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 921](/us/stat/114/921); [Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3034(a)](/us/pl/113/291/dB/tXXX/s3034/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3777](/us/stat/128/3777).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 113–291](/us/pl/113/291) substituted “include—” for “include”, designated remainder of existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “; and” for period at end, and added par. (2).

2000—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 106–290, § 1(2)](/us/pl/106/290/s1/2), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 106–290, § 1(1)](/us/pl/106/290/s1/1), (3), redesignated subsec. (b) as (c) and substituted “maps referred to in subsections (a) and (b)” for “map referred to in subsection (a)”.
