---
title: "§ 306114. Documentation of decisions respecting undertakings"
identifier: "USC-T54-S306114"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section306114"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3228](/us/stat/128/3228).)"
---
# § 306114. Documentation of decisions respecting undertakings

##### § 306114. Documentation of decisions respecting undertakings

With respect to any undertaking subject to [section 306108 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s306108) that adversely affects any historic property for which a Federal agency has not entered into an agreement pursuant to regulations issued by the Council, the head of the agency shall document any decision made pursuant to [section 306108 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s306108). The head of the agency may not delegate the responsibility to document a decision pursuant to this section. Where an agreement pursuant to regulations issued by the Council has been executed with respect to an undertaking, the agreement shall govern the undertaking and all of its parts.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3228](/us/stat/128/3228).)*

The words “historic property” are substituted for “property included in or eligible for inclusion in the National Register” because of the definition of “historic property” in section 300308 of the new title. The words “to document a decision pursuant to this section” are substituted for “pursuant to such section” for clarity. The language was not intended to limit agency authority to delegate responsibilities under section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act ([Public Law 89–665](/us/pl/89/665), [80 Stat. 917](/us/stat/80/917)). The words “agreement pursuant to regulations issued by the Council” are substituted for “a section 106 memorandum”, and the word “agreement” is substituted for “memorandum”, for clarity and for consistency in the new section.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 306114 | 16 U.S.C. 470h–2(*l*). | Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 110(*l*), as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4012(3), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4761; Pub. L. 106–208, § 5(a)(8), May 26, 2000, 114 Stat. 319. |
