---
title: "§ 7803. Issuance of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7803"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7803"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–387, § 1(a) [title XII, § 1204]](/us/pl/106/387/s1/a/tXII/s1204), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/114/1549), 1549A–81.)"
---
# § 7803. Issuance of orders

##### § 7803. Issuance of orders

(a) In general

(1) Issuance To effectuate the policy of this chapter specified in [section 7801(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7801/b), the Secretary, subject to the procedures provided in subsection (b), shall issue orders under this chapter applicable to producers, importers, and first handlers of Hass avocados.

(2) Scope Any order shall be national in scope.

(3) One order Not more than one order shall be in effect at any one time.

(b) Procedures

(1) Proposal for an order An existing organization of avocado producers established pursuant to a State statute, or any other person who will be affected by this chapter, may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for an order.

(2) Publication of proposal The Secretary shall publish a proposed order and give notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order not later than 60 days after receipt by the Secretary of a proposal for an order from an existing organization of avocado producers established pursuant to a State statute, as provided in paragraph (1).

(3) Issuance of order

(A) In general After notice and opportunity for public comment are provided in accordance with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue the order, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the order such provisions as are necessary to ensure that the order is in conformity with this chapter.

(B) Effective date The order shall be issued and become effective only after an affirmative vote in a referendum as provided in [section 7805 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7805), but not later than 180 days after publication of the proposed order.

(c) Amendments The Secretary, from time to time, may amend an order. The provisions of this chapter applicable to an order shall be applicable to any amendment to an order.

*([Pub. L. 106–387, § 1(a) [title XII, § 1204]](/us/pl/106/387/s1/a/tXII/s1204), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/114/1549), 1549A–81.)*
