---
title: "§ 1752. Election of Delegate"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1752"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1752"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–229, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/110/229/tVII/s712), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 868](/us/stat/122/868).)"
---
# § 1752. Election of Delegate

##### § 1752. Election of Delegate

(a) Electors and time of election The Delegate shall be elected—

(1) by the people qualified to vote for the popularly elected officials of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and

(2) at the Federal general election of 2008 and at such Federal general election every 2d year thereafter.

(b) Manner of election

(1) In general The Delegate shall be elected at large and by a plurality of the votes cast for the office of Delegate.

(2) Effect of establishment of primary elections Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the Government of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, acting pursuant to legislation enacted in accordance with the Constitution of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, provides for primary elections for the election of the Delegate, the Delegate shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast in any general election for the office of Delegate for which such primary elections were held.

(c) Vacancy In case of a permanent vacancy in the office of Delegate, the office of Delegate shall remain vacant until a successor is elected and qualified.

(d) Commencement of term The term of the Delegate shall commence on the 3d day of January following the date of the election.

*([Pub. L. 110–229, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/110/229/tVII/s712), May 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 868](/us/stat/122/868).)*
