---
title: "§ 1863. Agreements with Federal and State agencies"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1863"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1863"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–470, title V, § 513](/us/pl/97/470/tV/s513), Jan. 14, 1983, [96 Stat. 2599](/us/stat/96/2599).)"
---
# § 1863. Agreements with Federal and State agencies

##### § 1863. Agreements with Federal and State agencies

(a) Scope of agreements The Secretary may enter into agreements with Federal and State agencies (1) to use their facilities and services, (2) to delegate, subject to subsection (b), to Federal and State agencies such authority, other than rulemaking, as may be useful in carrying out this chapter, and (3) to allocate or transfer funds to, or otherwise pay or reimburse, such agencies for expenses incurred pursuant to agreements under clause (1) or (2) of this section.

(b) Delegation of authority pursuant to written State plan Any delegation to a State agency pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall be made only pursuant to a written State plan which—

(1) shall include a description of the functions to be performed, the methods of performing such functions, and the resources to be devoted to the performance of such functions; and

(2) provides assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the State agency will comply with its description under paragraph (1) and that the State agency’s performance of functions so delegated will be at least comparable to the performance of such functions by the Department of Labor.

*([Pub. L. 97–470, title V, § 513](/us/pl/97/470/tV/s513), Jan. 14, 1983, [96 Stat. 2599](/us/stat/96/2599).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days from Jan. 14, 1983, see [section 524 of Pub. L. 97–470](/us/pl/97/470/s524), set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1801).
