---
title: "§ 5721. Continued application of United States law"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5721"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5721"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–383, title II, § 201](/us/pl/102/383/tII/s201), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1452](/us/stat/106/1452); [Pub. L. 116–76, § 4(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/76/s4/a/1), Nov. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1163](/us/stat/133/1163).)"
---
# § 5721. Continued application of United States law

##### § 5721. Continued application of United States law

(a) In general Notwithstanding any change in the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong, the laws of the United States shall continue to apply with respect to Hong Kong, on and after July 1, 1997, in the same manner as the laws of the United States were applied with respect to Hong Kong before such date unless otherwise expressly provided by law or by Executive order under [section 5722 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5722).

(b) International agreements For all purposes, including actions in any court in the United States, the Congress approves the continuation in force on and after July 1, 1997, of all treaties and other international agreements, including multilateral conventions, entered into before November 27, 2019, between the United States and Hong Kong, or entered into before November 27, 2019, between the United States and the United Kingdom and applied to Hong Kong, unless or until terminated in accordance with law. If in carrying out this subchapter, the President determines that Hong Kong is not legally competent to carry out its obligations under any such treaty or other international agreement, or that the continuation of Hong Kong’s obligations or rights under any such treaty or other international agreement is not appropriate under the circumstances, such determination shall be reported to the Congress in accordance with [section 5731 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5731).

*([Pub. L. 102–383, title II, § 201](/us/pl/102/383/tII/s201), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1452](/us/stat/106/1452); [Pub. L. 116–76, § 4(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/76/s4/a/1), Nov. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1163](/us/stat/133/1163).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–76](/us/pl/116/76) substituted “November 27, 2019” for “such date” in two places.
