---
title: "§ 5302. Congressional declaration of policy"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–638, § 3](/us/pl/93/638/s3), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203); [Pub. L. 100–472, title I, § 102](/us/pl/100/472/tI/s102), Oct. 5, 1988, [102 Stat. 2285](/us/stat/102/2285).)"
---
# § 5302. Congressional declaration of policy

##### § 5302. Congressional declaration of policy

(a) Recognition of obligation of United States The Congress hereby recognizes the obligation of the United States to respond to the strong expression of the Indian people for self-determination by assuring maximum Indian participation in the direction of educational as well as other Federal services to Indian communities so as to render such services more responsive to the needs and desires of those communities.

(b) Declaration of commitment The Congress declares its commitment to the maintenance of the Federal Government’s unique and continuing relationship with, and responsibility to, individual Indian tribes and to the Indian people as a whole through the establishment of a meaningful Indian self-determination policy which will permit an orderly transition from the Federal domination of programs for, and services to, Indians to effective and meaningful participation by the Indian people in the planning, conduct, and administration of those programs and services. In accordance with this policy, the United States is committed to supporting and assisting Indian tribes in the development of strong and stable tribal governments, capable of administering quality programs and developing the economies of their respective communities.

(c) Declaration of national goal The Congress declares that a major national goal of the United States is to provide the quantity and quality of educational services and opportunities which will permit Indian children to compete and excel in the life areas of their choice, and to achieve the measure of self-determination essential to their social and economic well-being.

*([Pub. L. 93–638, § 3](/us/pl/93/638/s3), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203); [Pub. L. 100–472, title I, § 102](/us/pl/100/472/tI/s102), Oct. 5, 1988, [102 Stat. 2285](/us/stat/102/2285).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 450a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s450a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1988—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–472](/us/pl/100/472) added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b) which read as follows: “The Congress declares its commitment to the maintenance of the Federal Government’s unique and continuing relationship with and responsibility to the Indian people through the establishment of a meaningful Indian self-determination policy which will permit an orderly transition from Federal domination of programs for and services to Indians to effective and meaningful participation by the Indian people in the planning, conduct, and administration of those programs and services.”
