---
title: "§ 211. Receiving or securing compensation for appointment of employees"
identifier: "USC-T13-S211"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title13-section211"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "13"
source_credit: "([Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1158](/us/act/1954-08-31/ch1158), [68 Stat. 1022](/us/stat/68/1022).)"
---
# § 211. Receiving or securing compensation for appointment of employees

##### § 211. Receiving or securing compensation for appointment of employees

(1) receives or secures to himself any fee, reward, or compensation as a consideration for the appointment of any person as supervisor, enumerator, clerk, or other officer or employee of the Department of Commerce or bureau or agency thereof, referred to in subchapter II of chapter 1 of this title; or

(2) in any way receives or secures to himself any part of the compensation paid to any person so appointed—

*([Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1158](/us/act/1954-08-31/ch1158), [68 Stat. 1022](/us/stat/68/1022).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 13, U.S.C., 1952 ed., §§ 122, 207, 252, and [section 1442 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1442), U.S.C., 1952 ed., The Public Health and Welfare ([June 18, 1929, ch. 28, § 7](/us/act/1929-06-18/ch28/s7), [46 Stat. 23](/us/stat/46/23); [June 19, 1948, ch. 502, § 2](/us/act/1948-06-19/ch502/s2), [62 Stat. 479](/us/stat/62/479); [July 15, 1949, ch. 338](/us/act/1949-07-15/ch338), title VI, § 607, [63 Stat. 441](/us/stat/63/441); [Sept. 7, 1950, ch. 910, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-07/ch910/s2), [64 Stat. 784](/us/stat/64/784).)

Section consolidates [section 207 of title 13](/us/usc/t13/s207), U.S.C., 1952 ed., which was a part of chapter 4 of such title relating to the censuses of population, agriculture, irrigation, etc. (subchapter II of chapter 5 of this revised title), with those parts of sections 122 and 252 of such title which made such section 207 applicable to the censuses of manufactures, the mineral industries, and other businesses, and governments (subchapters I and III of chapter 5 of this revised title), and with that part of subsection (b) of [section 1442 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1442), U.S.C., 1952, ed., which made such section 207 applicable to the censuses of housing (subchapter II of chapter 5 of this revised title). For remainder of sections 122 and 252 of title 13, U.S.C., 1952 ed., and of [section 1442 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1442), U.S.C., 1952 ed. (which section has been transferred in its entirety to this revised title), see Distribution Table.

This section, as revised, relates to appointments of all officers and employees referred to in subchapter II of chapter 1 of this title, which was the probable original legislative intent.

Reference in [section 207 of title 13](/us/usc/t13/s207), U.S.C., 1952 ed., to the offense, herein described, as a felony, and words in such section, “and upon conviction thereof,” were omitted from this revised section, the former, as covered by [section 1 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1), U.S.C., 1952 ed., Crimes and Criminal Procedure, classifying offenses, and the latter, as surplusage.

The reference “Department of Commerce or bureau or agency thereof” was inserted in recognition of 1950 Reorganization Plan No. 5, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/64/1263) (see Revision Note to [section 4 of this title](/us/usc/t13/s4)). However, the qualifying words, “referred to in subchapter II of chapter 1 of this title,” limits the provisions to appointment or employment of persons in connection with the statistics and censuses provided for in this title.

Changes were made in phraseology.
