---
title: "§ 16134. Evaluation and report"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16134"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16134"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title VII, § 794](/us/pl/109/58/tVII/s794), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 843](/us/stat/119/843); [Pub. L. 111–364, § 2(d)](/us/pl/111/364/s2/d), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4060](/us/stat/124/4060).)"
---
# § 16134. Evaluation and report

##### § 16134. Evaluation and report

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after the date on which funds are made available under this part, and biennially thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report evaluating the implementation of the programs under this part.

(b) Inclusions The report shall include a description of—

(1) the total number of grant applications received;

(2) each grant, rebate, or loan made under this part, including the amount of the grant, rebate, or loan;

(3) each project for which a grant, rebate, or loan is provided under this part, including the criteria used to select the grant, rebate, or loan recipients;

(4) the actual and estimated air quality and diesel fuel conservation benefits, cost-effectiveness, and cost-benefits of the grant, rebate, and loan programs under this part;

(5) the problems encountered by projects for which a grant, rebate, or loan is provided under this part;

(6) any other information the Administrator considers to be appropriate; and

(7) in the last report sent to Congress before January 1, 2016, an analysis of the need to continue the program, including an assessment of the size of the vehicle and engine fleet that could provide benefits from being retrofit under this program and a description of the number and types of applications that were not granted in the preceding year.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title VII, § 794](/us/pl/109/58/tVII/s794), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 843](/us/stat/119/843); [Pub. L. 111–364, § 2(d)](/us/pl/111/364/s2/d), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4060](/us/stat/124/4060).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2011—Subsec. (b)(2) to (5). [Pub. L. 111–364, § 2(d)(1)](/us/pl/111/364/s2/d/1), inserted “, rebate,” after “grant” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (b)(7). [Pub. L. 111–364, § 2(d)(2)](/us/pl/111/364/s2/d/2)–(4), added par. (7).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2011 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–364](/us/pl/111/364) effective Oct. 1, 2011, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 111–364](/us/pl/111/364/s4), set out as a note under [section 16131 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16131).
