---
title: "§ 3318. Additional assistance: relocation or travel assistance for individual relocating or traveling significant distance for pursuit of a program of education"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3318"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3318"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–252, title V, § 5003(a)(1)](/us/pl/110/252/tV/s5003/a/1), June 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2369](/us/stat/122/2369); amended [Pub. L. 111–275, title X, § 1001(g)(6)](/us/pl/111/275/tX/s1001/g/6), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2896](/us/stat/124/2896).)"
---
# § 3318. Additional assistance: relocation or travel assistance for individual relocating or traveling significant distance for pursuit of a program of education

##### § 3318. Additional assistance: relocation or travel assistance for individual relocating or traveling significant distance for pursuit of a program of education

(a) Additional Assistance.— Each individual described in subsection (b) shall be paid additional assistance under this section in the amount of $500.

(b) Covered Individuals.— An individual described in this subsection is any individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter—

(1) who resides in a county (or similar entity utilized by the Bureau of the Census) with less than seven persons per square mile, according to the most recent decennial Census; and

(2) who—

(A) physically relocates a distance of at least 500 miles in order to pursue a program of education for which the individual utilizes educational assistance under this chapter; or

(B) travels by air to physically attend an institution of higher learning for pursuit of such a program of education because the individual cannot travel to such institution by automobile or other established form of transportation due to an absence of road or other infrastructure.

(c) Proof of Residence.— For purposes of subsection (b)(1), an individual may demonstrate the individual’s place of residence utilizing any of the following:

(1) DD Form 214, Certification of Release or Discharge from Active Duty.

(2) The most recent Federal income tax return.

(3) Such other evidence as the Secretary shall prescribe for purposes of this section.

(d) Single Payment of Assistance.— An individual is entitled to only one payment of additional assistance under this section.

(e) No Charge Against Entitlement.— Any amount paid an individual under this section is in addition to any other educational assistance benefits provided the individual under this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–252, title V, § 5003(a)(1)](/us/pl/110/252/tV/s5003/a/1), June 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2369](/us/stat/122/2369); amended [Pub. L. 111–275, title X, § 1001(g)(6)](/us/pl/111/275/tX/s1001/g/6), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2896](/us/stat/124/2896).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 111–275](/us/pl/111/275) substituted “higher learning” for “higher education”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Aug. 1, 2009, see [section 5003(d) of Pub. L. 110–252](/us/pl/110/252/s5003/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under [section 16163 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s16163), Armed Forces.
