---
title: "§ 10225. Location of test and evaluation facility"
identifier: "USC-T42-S10225"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section10225"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–425, title III, § 305](/us/pl/97/425/tIII/s305), Jan. 7, 1983, [96 Stat. 2262](/us/stat/96/2262).)"
---
# § 10225. Location of test and evaluation facility

##### § 10225. Location of test and evaluation facility

(a) Report to Congress Not later than 1 year after January 7, 1983, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress a report setting forth whether the Secretary plans to locate the test and evaluation facility at the site of a repository.

(b) Procedures

(1) If the test and evaluation facility is to be located at any candidate site or repository site (A) site selection and development of such facility shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures and requirements established in subchapter I with respect to the site selection and development of repositories; and (B) the Secretary may not commence construction of any surface facility for such test and evaluation facility prior to issuance by the Commission of a construction authorization for a repository at the site involved.

(2) No test and evaluation facility may be converted into a repository unless site selection and development of such facility was conducted in accordance with the procedures and requirements established in subchapter I with respect to the site selection and development of respositories.11 So in original. Probably should be “repositories.”

(3) The Secretary may not commence construction of a test and evaluation facility at a candidate site or site recommended as the location for a repository prior to the date on which the designation of such site is effective under [section 10135 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10135).

*([Pub. L. 97–425, title III, § 305](/us/pl/97/425/tIII/s305), Jan. 7, 1983, [96 Stat. 2262](/us/stat/96/2262).)*
