---
title: "§ 1496a. Clearance restrictions of individuals returning from abroad; special circumstances; “baggage and effects” defined"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1496a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1496a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–410, title II, § 215](/us/pl/95/410/tII/s215), Oct. 3, 1978, [92 Stat. 904](/us/stat/92/904).)"
---
# § 1496a. Clearance restrictions of individuals returning from abroad; special circumstances; “baggage and effects” defined

##### § 1496a. Clearance restrictions of individuals returning from abroad; special circumstances; “baggage and effects” defined

(1) entitled to the admission of his or her baggage and effects free of duty without entry; or

(2) entitled to expedited customs examination and clearance of his or her baggage and effects.

*([Pub. L. 95–410, title II, § 215](/us/pl/95/410/tII/s215), Oct. 3, 1978, [92 Stat. 904](/us/stat/92/904).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of Customs Procedural Reform and Simplification Act of 1978, and not as part of Tariff Act of 1930 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Clearance Procedures Study; Report to Congressional Committees

[Pub. L. 95–410, title II, § 216](/us/pl/95/410/tII/s216), Oct. 3, 1978, [92 Stat. 904](/us/stat/92/904), provided that the Comptroller General, in cooperation with the Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury and the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the Department of Justice, study clearance procedures for individuals entering or reentering the United States, and to report the results of his study and any recommendations for expediting the clearance process to specific committees of the United States Senate and the House of Representatives not later than Sept. 1, 1979.
