---
title: "§ 1856. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1856"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1856"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([May 27, 1955, ch. 105, § 1](/us/act/1955-05-27/ch105/s1), [69 Stat. 66](/us/stat/69/66); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1060](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1060), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3444](/us/stat/119/3444).)"
---
# § 1856. Definitions

##### § 1856. Definitions

(a) The term “agency head” means the head of any executive department, military department, agency, or independent establishment in the executive branch of the Government;

(b) The term “fire protection” includes personal services and equipment required for fire prevention, the protection of life and property from fire,,11 So in original. fire fighting, and emergency services, including basic medical support, basic and advanced life support, hazardous material containment and confinement, and special rescue events involving vehicular and water mishaps, and trench, building, and confined space extractions; and

(c) The term “fire organization” means any governmental entity or public or private corporation or association maintaining fire protection facilities within the United States, its Territories and possessions, and any governmental entity or public or private corporation or association which maintains fire protection facilities in any foreign country in the vicinity of any installation of the United States.

*([May 27, 1955, ch. 105, § 1](/us/act/1955-05-27/ch105/s1), [69 Stat. 66](/us/stat/69/66); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1060](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1060), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3444](/us/stat/119/3444).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163) substituted “, fire fighting, and emergency services, including basic medical support, basic and advanced life support, hazardous material containment and confinement, and special rescue events involving vehicular and water mishaps, and trench, building, and confined space extractions” for “and fire fighting”.
