---
title: "§ 6763. Expedited judicial review"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6763"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6763"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title V, § 503](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tV/s503), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–885](/us/stat/112/2681-885).)"
---
# § 6763. Expedited judicial review

##### § 6763. Expedited judicial review

(a) Civil action Any person or entity subject to a search under this chapter may file a civil action challenging the constitutionality of any provision of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the full calendar year of, and the two full calendar years following October 21, 1998, the district court shall accord such a case a priority in its disposition ahead of all other civil actions except for actions challenging the legality and conditions of confinement.

(b) En banc review Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the full calendar year of, and the two full calendar years following October 21, 1998, any appeal from a final order entered by a district court in an action brought under subsection (a) shall be heard promptly by the full Court of Appeals sitting en banc.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title V, § 503](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tV/s503), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–885](/us/stat/112/2681-885).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this division”, meaning div. I of [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–856](/us/stat/112/2681-856), known as the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of division I to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6701 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6701) and Tables.
