---
title: "§ 758. High speed flight from immigration checkpoint"
identifier: "USC-T18-S758"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section758"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title I, § 108(b)(1)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tI/s108/b/1), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–557](/us/stat/110/3009-557).)"
---
# § 758. High speed flight from immigration checkpoint

##### § 758. High speed flight from immigration checkpoint

Whoever flees or evades a checkpoint operated by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, or any other Federal law enforcement agency, in a motor vehicle and flees Federal, State, or local law enforcement agents in excess of the legal speed limit shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than five years, or both.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title I, § 108(b)(1)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tI/s108/b/1), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–557](/us/stat/110/3009-557).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1551), Aliens and Nationality.

#### Congressional Findings

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title I, § 108(a)](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tI/s108/a), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–557](/us/stat/110/3009-557), provided that: “The Congress finds as follows: “(1) Immigration checkpoints are an important component of the national strategy to prevent illegal immigration. “(2) Individuals fleeing immigration checkpoints and leading law enforcement officials on high speed vehicle chases endanger law enforcement officers, innocent bystanders, and the fleeing individuals themselves. “(3) The pursuit of suspects fleeing immigration checkpoints is complicated by overlapping jurisdiction among Federal, State, and local law enforcement officers.”
