---
title: "§ 174. Superintendence by President over tribes west of Mississippi"
identifier: "USC-T25-S174"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section174"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 2114.)"
---
# § 174. Superintendence by President over tribes west of Mississippi

##### § 174. Superintendence by President over tribes west of Mississippi

The President is authorized to exercise general superintendence and care over any tribe or nation which was removed upon an exchange of territory under authority of the act of May 28, 1830, “to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories, and for their removal west of the Mississippi;” and to cause such tribe or nation to be protected, at their new residence, against all interruption or disturbance from any other tribe or nation of Indians, or from any other person or persons whatever.

*(R.S. § 2114.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 2114 derived from [act May 28, 1830, ch. 148](/us/act/1830-05-28/ch148), §§ 7, 8, [4 Stat. 412](/us/stat/4/412).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### American Indian Policy Review Commission

[Pub. L. 93–580](/us/pl/93/580), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1910](/us/stat/88/1910), as amended by [Pub. L. 94–80](/us/pl/94/80), §§ 1–4, Aug. 9, 1975, [89 Stat. 415](/us/stat/89/415), 416; [Pub. L. 95–5](/us/pl/95/5), Feb. 17, 1977, [91 Stat. 13](/us/stat/91/13), provided for the establishment, membership, etc., of the American Indian Policy Review Commission, and for investigations, studies, and a final report respecting Indian tribal government affairs, with the Commission to cease to exist three months after submission of the final report but not later than June 30, 1977, and Congressional committee reports to Congress within two years after referral to committee of the final report by the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House.
