---
title: "§ 669b–1. Authorization of appropriation of accumulated unappropriated receipts"
identifier: "USC-T16-S669b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section669b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Aug. 12, 1955, ch. 861, § 1](/us/act/1955-08-12/ch861/s1), [69 Stat. 698](/us/stat/69/698).)"
---
# § 669b–1. Authorization of appropriation of accumulated unappropriated receipts

##### § 669b–1. Authorization of appropriation of accumulated unappropriated receipts

There is hereby authorized to be appropriated, out of the Federal aid to wildlife restoration fund established by the Act entitled “An Act to provide that the United States shall aid the States in wildlife-restoration projects, and for other purposes”, approved September 2, 1937, as amended (16 U.S.C., secs. 669–669i), for the 1956 fiscal year and for each fiscal year thereafter, an amount equal to 20 per centum of the accumulated unappropriated receipts in such fund on August 12, 1955, until the accumulated unappropriated receipts in such fund on such date have been appropriated and expended. Funds appropriated under the authority of this section shall be made available to the States in accordance with the provisions of, and under the apportionment formula set forth in, such Act of September 2, 1937, and shall be in addition to the funds appropriated under section 3 of such Act [[16 U.S.C. 669b](/us/usc/t16/s669b)].

*([Aug. 12, 1955, ch. 861, § 1](/us/act/1955-08-12/ch861/s1), [69 Stat. 698](/us/stat/69/698).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act entitled “An Act to provide that the United States shall aid the States in wildlife-restoration projects, and for other purposes”, approved September 2, 1937, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 2, 1937, ch. 899](/us/act/1937-09-02/ch899), [50 Stat. 917](/us/stat/50/917), known as the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act and also popularly known as the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 669 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s669) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act which comprises this chapter.
