---
title: "§ 6503. Training and monitoring"
identifier: "USC-T5-S6503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section6503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–292, § 2(a)](/us/pl/111/292/s2/a), Dec. 9, 2010, [124 Stat. 3166](/us/stat/124/3166).)"
---
# § 6503. Training and monitoring

##### § 6503. Training and monitoring

(a) In General.— The head of each executive agency shall ensure that—

(1) an interactive telework training program is provided to—

(A) employees eligible to participate in the telework program of the agency; and

(B) all managers of teleworkers;

(2) except as provided under subsection (b), an employee has successfully completed the interactive telework training program before that employee enters into a written agreement to telework described under section 6502(b)(2);

(3) teleworkers and nonteleworkers are treated the same for purposes of—

(A) periodic appraisals of job performance of employees;

(B) training, rewarding, reassigning, promoting, reducing in grade, retaining, and removing employees;

(C) work requirements; or

(D) other acts involving managerial discretion; and

(4) when determining what constitutes diminished employee performance, the agency shall consult the performance management guidelines of the Office of Personnel Management.

(b) Training Requirement Exemptions.— The head of an executive agency may provide for an exemption from the training requirements under subsection (a), if the head of that agency determines that the training would be unnecessary because the employee is already teleworking under a work arrangement in effect before the date of enactment of this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–292, § 2(a)](/us/pl/111/292/s2/a), Dec. 9, 2010, [124 Stat. 3166](/us/stat/124/3166).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 111–292](/us/pl/111/292), which was approved Dec. 9, 2010.
