---
title: "§ 757. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T47-S757"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section757"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–624, title V, § 505](/us/pl/87/624/tV/s505), formerly § 508, as added [Pub. L. 95–564](/us/pl/95/564), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2396](/us/stat/92/2396); renumbered § 505, [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 304(b)(6)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s304/b/6), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4298](/us/stat/108/4298).)"
---
# § 757. Definitions

##### § 757. Definitions

(1) the term “person” includes an individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, or corporation;

(2) the term “satellite earth terminal station” means a complex of communications equipment located on land, operationally interconnected with one or more terrestrial communications systems, and capable of transmitting telecommunications to, or receiving telecommunications from, the space segment;

(3) the term “space segment” means any satellite (or capacity on a satellite) maintained under the authority of INMARSAT, for the purpose of providing international maritime telecommunications services, and the tracking, telemetry, command, control, monitoring, and related facilities and equipment required to support the operation of such satellite; and

(4) the term “State” means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 87–624, title V, § 505](/us/pl/87/624/tV/s505), formerly § 508, as added [Pub. L. 95–564](/us/pl/95/564), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2396](/us/stat/92/2396); renumbered § 505, [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 304(b)(6)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s304/b/6), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4298](/us/stat/108/4298).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 505 of Pub. L. 87–624](/us/pl/87/624/s505) was classified to [section 754 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s754) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–414, § 304(b)(5)](/us/pl/103/414/s304/b/5).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding [section 1681 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1681), Territories and Insular Possessions.
