---
title: "§ 2301. Congressional declaration of policy"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 1, § 11, [69 Stat. 472](/us/stat/69/472).)"
---
# § 2301. Congressional declaration of policy

##### § 2301. Congressional declaration of policy

(a) facilitate the establishment of local self-government;

(b) provide for the orderly transfer to local entities of municipal functions, municipal installations, and utilities; and

(c) provide for the orderly sale to private purchasers of property within those communities with a minimum of dislocation.

*([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 1, § 11, [69 Stat. 472](/us/stat/69/472).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 919](/us/stat/68/919), which is classified principally to chapter 23 (§ 2011 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2011) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Act Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543, § 1](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543/s1), [69 Stat. 471](/us/stat/69/471), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter and amending [section 1715n of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1715n), Banks and Banking, and [section 243 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s243), Education] may be cited as the ‘Atomic Energy Community Act of 1955’.”

#### Separability

[Act Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 11, § 119, [69 Stat. 484](/us/stat/69/484), provided that: “If any provisions of this Act [see Short Title note above], or the application of such provision to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of this Act or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.”

#### Transfer of Functions

Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.
