---
title: "§ 3216. Employment of expediters and administrative employees"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3216"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3216"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–136, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/89/136/tVI/s606), as added [Pub. L. 105–393, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/105/393/tI/s102/a), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3615](/us/stat/112/3615).)"
---
# § 3216. Employment of expediters and administrative employees

##### § 3216. Employment of expediters and administrative employees

(1) certify to the Secretary the names of any attorneys, agents, and other persons engaged by or on behalf of the business for the purpose of expediting applications made to the Secretary for assistance of any kind, under this chapter, and the fees paid or to be paid to the person for expediting the applications; and

(2) execute an agreement binding the business, for the 2-year period beginning on the date on which the assistance is provided by the Secretary to the business, to refrain from employing, offering any office or employment to, or retaining for professional services, any person who, on the date on which the assistance or any part of the assistance was provided, or within the 1-year period ending on that date—

(A) served as an officer, attorney, agent, or employee of the Department; and

(B) occupied a position or engaged in activities that the Secretary determines involved discretion with respect to the granting of assistance under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 89–136, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/89/136/tVI/s606), as added [Pub. L. 105–393, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/105/393/tI/s102/a), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3615](/us/stat/112/3615).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3216, [Pub. L. 89–136, title VII, § 706](/us/pl/89/136/tVII/s706), Aug. 26, 1965, [79 Stat. 573](/us/stat/79/573), defined terms as used in this chapter, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 105–393, § 102(b)(3)](/us/pl/105/393/s102/b/3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Feb. 11, 1999, see [section 105 of Pub. L. 105–393](/us/pl/105/393/s105), set out as a note under [section 3121 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3121).
