---
title: "§ 5402. Scope of authority"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–179, § 3](/us/pl/101/179/s3), as added [Pub. L. 102–511, title IX, § 903(a)](/us/pl/102/511/tIX/s903/a), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3355](/us/stat/106/3355).)"
---
# § 5402. Scope of authority

##### § 5402. Scope of authority

(a) General authorization The President is authorized to conduct activities for any East European country that are similar to any activity authorized by this chapter to be conducted in Poland or Hungary (excluding those authorized by [section 5412 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5412) or the amendments made by sections 301 and 304) if such similar activities would effectively promote a transition to market-oriented democracy.

(b) Administration of justice programs In order to strengthen the administration of justice in East European countries, the President may exercise the same authorities with respect to those countries as are available under [section 2346c of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2346c), subject to the limitations and requirements of that section, other than subsection (c) and the last two sentences of subsection (e).

(c) “East European country” defined For purposes of this chapter, the term “East European country” includes Albania, Bulgaria, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and states that were part of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.

*([Pub. L. 101–179, § 3](/us/pl/101/179/s3), as added [Pub. L. 102–511, title IX, § 903(a)](/us/pl/102/511/tIX/s903/a), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3355](/us/stat/106/3355).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 101–179](/us/pl/101/179), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1298](/us/stat/103/1298), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5401 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5401) and Tables.

Sections 301 and 304, referred to in subsec. (a), are sections 301 and 304 of [Pub. L. 101–179, title III](/us/pl/101/179/tIII), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1311](/us/stat/103/1311), 1312. Section 301 amended [section 2462 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s2462), Customs Duties. Section 304 enacted [section 2185 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2185), amended [section 2184 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2184), and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 2185 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2185).
