---
title: "§ 2255. Membership in International Wheat Advisory Committee, International Sugar Council, etc"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2255"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2255"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Sept. 21, 1944, ch. 412](/us/act/1944-09-21/ch412), title VII, § 701(a), [58 Stat. 741](/us/stat/58/741).)"
---
# § 2255. Membership in International Wheat Advisory Committee, International Sugar Council, etc

##### § 2255. Membership in International Wheat Advisory Committee, International Sugar Council, etc.

The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to expend funds, available for agricultural conservation, adjustment, and land use programs, for the share of the United States as a member of the International Wheat Advisory Committee, the International Sugar Council, or like events or bodies concerned with the objectives of said program, together with traveling and other necessary expenses relating thereto: *Provided*, That expenditures under this authority shall not be made unless provision is made therefor in the applicable appropriation and the cost thereof is not in excess of limitations prescribed therein.

*([Sept. 21, 1944, ch. 412](/us/act/1944-09-21/ch412), title VII, § 701(a), [58 Stat. 741](/us/stat/58/741).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

This section was enacted as part of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944.

Section was formerly classified to sections 570 and 574 of Title 5 prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers, agencies, and employees of Department of Agriculture transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2201).
