---
title: "§ 14110. Reports of promotion boards: review by Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T10-S14110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section14110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2929](/us/stat/108/2929).)"
---
# § 14110. Reports of promotion boards: review by Secretary

##### § 14110. Reports of promotion boards: review by Secretary

(a) Review of Report.— Upon receipt of the report of a promotion board submitted under [section 14109(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14109/a), the Secretary of the military department concerned shall review the report to determine whether the board has acted contrary to law or regulation or to guidelines furnished the board under [section 14107(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14107/a). Following that review, unless the Secretary concerned makes a determination as described in subsection (b), the Secretary shall submit the report as required by [section 14111 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14111).

(b) Return of Report for Further Proceedings.— If, on the basis of a review of the report under subsection (a), the Secretary of the military department concerned determines that the board acted contrary to law or regulation or to guidelines furnished the board under [section 14107(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14107/a), the Secretary shall return the report, together with a written explanation of the basis for such determination, to the board for further proceedings. Upon receipt of a report returned by the Secretary concerned under this subsection, the selection board (or a subsequent selection board convened under [section 14101(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14101/a) for the same grade and competitive category) shall conduct such proceedings as may be necessary in order to revise the report to be consistent with law, regulation, and such guidelines and shall resubmit the report, as revised, to the Secretary in accordance with [section 14109 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14109).

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2929](/us/stat/108/2929).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 5898(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s5898/a), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–337, § 1629(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/337/s1629/b/2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 1691(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691/b/1), set out as a note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).
