---
title: "§ 41303. Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act of 1988"
identifier: "USC-T34-S41303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section41303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7332](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7332), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4468](/us/stat/102/4468); [Pub. L. 115–393, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/115/393/tIV/s402), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5274](/us/stat/132/5274).)"
---
# § 41303. Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act of 1988

##### § 41303. Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act of 1988

(a) Short title This section may be cited as the “Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act of 1988”.

(b) Definitions For purposes of this section, the term “Uniform Crime Reports” means the reports authorized under [section 534 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534) and administered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation which compiles nationwide criminal statistics for use in law enforcement administration, operation, and management and to assess the nature and type of crime in the United States.

(c) Establishment of system

(1) In general The Attorney General shall acquire, collect, classify, and preserve national data on Federal criminal offenses as part of the Uniform Crime Reports.

(2) Reporting by Federal agencies All departments and agencies within the Federal government (including the Department of Defense) which routinely investigate complaints of criminal activity, shall report details about crime within their respective jurisdiction to the Attorney General in a uniform manner and on a form prescribed by the Attorney General. The reporting required by this subsection shall be limited to the reporting of those crimes comprising the Uniform Crime Reports.

(3) Distribution of data The Attorney General shall distribute data received pursuant to paragraph (2), not less frequently than annually, to the President, Members of the Congress, State governments, and officials of localities and penal and other institutions participating in the Uniform Crime Reports program.

(4) Interagency coordination

(A) In general Not later than 90 days after December 21, 2018, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall coordinate with the head of each department or agency within the Federal Government that is subject to the mandatory reporting requirements under paragraph (2) for the purpose of ensuring successful implementation of paragraph (2).

(B) For report Not later than 6 months after December 21, 2018, the head of each department or agency within the Federal Government that is subject to the mandatory reporting requirements under paragraph (2) shall provide the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation such information as the Director determines is necessary to complete the first report required under paragraph (5).

(5) Annual report by Federal Bureau of Investigation Not later than 1 year after December 21, 2018, and annually thereafter, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall prepare and submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report detailing the efforts of the departments and agencies within the Federal Government to come into compliance with paragraph (2). The report shall contain a list of all departments and agencies within the Federal Government subject to paragraph (2) and whether each department or agency is in compliance with paragraph (2).

(d) Role of Federal Bureau of Investigation The Attorney General may designate the Federal Bureau of Investigation as the lead agency for purposes of performing the functions authorized by this section and may appoint or establish such advisory and oversight boards as may be necessary to assist the Bureau in ensuring uniformity, quality, and maximum use of the data collected.

(e) Inclusion of offenses involving illegal drugs The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is authorized to classify offenses involving illegal drugs and drug trafficking as a part I crime in the Uniform Crime Reports.

(f) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated $350,000 for fiscal year 1989 and such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section after fiscal year 1989.

(g) Effective date The provisions of this section shall be effective on January 1, 1989.

*([Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7332](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7332), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4468](/us/stat/102/4468); [Pub. L. 115–393, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/115/393/tIV/s402), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5274](/us/stat/132/5274).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 534 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 115–393, § 402(1)](/us/pl/115/393/s402/1), substituted “not less frequently than annually” for “in the form of annual Uniform Crime Reports for the United States”.

Subsec. (c)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 115–393, § 402(2)](/us/pl/115/393/s402/2), added pars. (4) and (5).
