---
title: "§ 20104. Registration and voting aids"
identifier: "USC-T52-S20104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section20104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–435, § 5](/us/pl/98/435/s5), Sept. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1679](/us/stat/98/1679).)"
---
# § 20104. Registration and voting aids

##### § 20104. Registration and voting aids

(a) Printed instructions; telecommunications devices for the deaf Each State shall make available registration and voting aids for Federal elections for handicapped and elderly individuals, including—

(1) instructions, printed in large type, conspicuously displayed at each permanent registration facility and each polling place; and

(2) information by telecommunications devices for the deaf.

(b) Medical certification No notarization or medical certification shall be required of a handicapped voter with respect to an absentee ballot or an application for such ballot, except that medical certification may be required when the certification establishes eligibility, under State law—

(1) to automatically receive an application or a ballot on a continuing basis; or

(2) to apply for an absentee ballot after the deadline has passed.

(c) Notice of availability of aids The chief election officer of each State shall provide public notice, calculated to reach elderly and handicapped voters, of the availability of aids under this section, assistance under [section 10508 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s10508), and the procedures for voting by absentee ballot, not later than general public notice of registration and voting is provided.

*([Pub. L. 98–435, § 5](/us/pl/98/435/s5), Sept. 28, 1984, [98 Stat. 1679](/us/stat/98/1679).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 1973ee–3 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1973ee–3), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to elections taking place after Dec. 31, 1985, see [section 9 of Pub. L. 98–435](/us/pl/98/435/s9), set out as a note under [section 20101 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s20101).
