---
title: "§ 6963. Composition of Task Force"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6963"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6963"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title V, § 503](/us/pl/106/286/dB/tV/s503), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 904](/us/stat/114/904); [Pub. L. 114–125, title VIII, § 802(d)(2)](/us/pl/114/125/tVIII/s802/d/2), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 210](/us/stat/130/210).)"
---
# § 6963. Composition of Task Force

##### § 6963. Composition of Task Force

The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of State, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the heads of other executive branch agencies, as appropriate, acting through their respective designees at or above the level of Deputy Assistant Secretary, or in the case of the Customs Service, at or above the level of Assistant Commissioner, shall compose the Task Force. The designee of the Secretary of the Treasury shall chair the Task Force.

*([Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title V, § 503](/us/pl/106/286/dB/tV/s503), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 904](/us/stat/114/904); [Pub. L. 114–125, title VIII, § 802(d)(2)](/us/pl/114/125/tVIII/s802/d/2), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 210](/us/stat/130/210).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection” substituted for “Commissioner of Customs” in text on authority of [section 802(d)(2) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/d/2), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), Domestic Security.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).
