---
title: "§ 582a–5. Apportionments, advice, criteria, etc"
identifier: "USC-T16-S582a–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section582a–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–788, § 6](/us/pl/87/788/s6), Oct. 10, 1962, [76 Stat. 807](/us/stat/76/807); [Pub. L. 97–98, title XIV, § 1441(c)](/us/pl/97/98/tXIV/s1441/c), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/95/1320).)"
---
# § 582a–5. Apportionments, advice, criteria, etc

##### § 582a–5. Apportionments, advice, criteria, etc.

Apportionments among participating States shall be determined by the Secretary after consultation with the council appointed under [section 582a–4 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s582a–4). In making such apportionments, consideration shall be given to pertinent factors including non-Federal expenditures for forestry research by State-certified eligible institutions, areas of non-Federal commercial forest land, and the volume of timber cut annually. Three per centum of such funds as may be appropriated shall be made available to the Secretary for administration of this subchapter. These administrative funds may be used for transportation of scientists who are not officers or employees of the United States to research meetings convened for purposes of assessing research opportunities or research planning.

*([Pub. L. 87–788, § 6](/us/pl/87/788/s6), Oct. 10, 1962, [76 Stat. 807](/us/stat/76/807); [Pub. L. 97–98, title XIV, § 1441(c)](/us/pl/97/98/tXIV/s1441/c), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/95/1320).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1981—[Pub. L. 97–98](/us/pl/97/98) substituted provisions directing the Secretary to make apportionments among participating States only after consultation with the council appointed under [section 582a–4 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s582a–4), enumerating the factors to be considered in making apportionments, and authorizing the expenditure of funds to transport scientists to research meetings for provisions which had authorized the Secretary to prescribe necessary rules and regulations, to furnish necessary advice and assistance, and to appoint an advisory committee. See [section 582a–4 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s582a–4).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–98](/us/pl/97/98) effective Dec. 22, 1981, see [section 1801 of Pub. L. 97–98](/us/pl/97/98/s1801), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 4301 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s4301), Agriculture.
