---
title: "§ 2083. Credit for service while on military leave"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2083"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2083"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 253](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s253), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3234](/us/stat/106/3234).)"
---
# § 2083. Credit for service while on military leave

##### § 2083. Credit for service while on military leave

(a) General rule A participant who, during the period of any war or of any national emergency as proclaimed by the President or declared by the Congress, leaves the participant’s position in the Agency to enter military service shall not be considered, for purposes of this subchapter, as separated from the participant’s position in the Agency by reason of such military service, unless the participant applies for and receives a refund of contributions under this subchapter. Such a participant may not be considered as retaining such position in the Agency after December 31, 1956, or upon the expiration of five years of such military service, whichever is later.

(b) Waiver of contributions Except to the extent provided under section 2082(e) or 2082(h) of this title, contributions shall not be required covering periods of leave of absence from the Agency granted a participant while performing active service in the Armed Forces.

*([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 253](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s253), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3234](/us/stat/106/3234).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 253 of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s253), title II, Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1052](/us/stat/78/1052); [Pub. L. 99–335, title V, § 501(2)](/us/pl/99/335/tV/s501/2), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 622](/us/stat/100/622), related to credit for service while on military leave and was set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403) prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643) by [section 802 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s802).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).
