---
title: "§ 1965. Maintenance of security systems for Capitol buildings and grounds"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1965"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1965"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–197, title III, § 308](/us/pl/104/197/tIII/s308), Sept. 16, 1996, [110 Stat. 2413](/us/stat/110/2413).)"
---
# § 1965. Maintenance of security systems for Capitol buildings and grounds

##### § 1965. Maintenance of security systems for Capitol buildings and grounds

(a) Effective October 1, 1996, the responsibility for maintenance of security systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds is transferred from the Architect of the Capitol to the Capitol Police Board. Such maintenance shall be carried out under the direction of the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate. On and after October 1, 1996, any alteration to a structural, mechanical, or architectural feature of the Capitol buildings and grounds that is required for security system maintenance under the preceding sentence may be carried out only with the approval of the Architect of the Capitol.

(b)

(1) Effective October 1, 1996, all positions specified in paragraph (2) and each individual holding any such position (on a permanent basis) immediately before that date, as identified by the Architect of the Capitol, shall be transferred to the Capitol Police.

(2) The positions referred to in paragraph (1) are those positions which, immediately before October 1, 1996, are—

(A) under the Architect of the Capitol;

(B) within the Electronics Engineering Division of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol; and

(C) related to the maintenance of security systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds.

(3) All annual leave and sick leave standing to the credit of an individual immediately before such individual is transferred under paragraph (1) shall be credited to such individual, without adjustment, in the new position of the individual.

*([Pub. L. 104–197, title III, § 308](/us/pl/104/197/tIII/s308), Sept. 16, 1996, [110 Stat. 2413](/us/stat/110/2413).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 212a–4a of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.
