---
title: "§ 6598. Designation by Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate of persons to approve vouchers for payment of moneys"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6598"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6598"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–181, title I, § 1201](/us/pl/98/181/tI/s1201), Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1289](/us/stat/97/1289); [Pub. L. 116–344, § 1](/us/pl/116/344/s1), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5141](/us/stat/134/5141).)"
---
# § 6598. Designation by Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate of persons to approve vouchers for payment of moneys

##### § 6598. Designation by Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate of persons to approve vouchers for payment of moneys

The Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Sergeant at Arms”) may designate one or more employees in the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate to approve, on his behalf, any voucher for payment of moneys, payroll action, or personnel action which the Sergeant at Arms is authorized to approve. Whenever the Sergeant at Arms makes a designation under the authority of the preceding sentence, he shall immediately notify the Committee on Rules and Administration in writing of the designation, and thereafter any approval of any voucher for payment of moneys, payroll action, or personnel action by an employee so designated shall (until such designation is revoked and the Sergeant at Arms notifies the Committee on Rules and Administration in writing of the revocation) be deemed and held to be approved by the Sergeant at Arms for all intents and purposes.

*([Pub. L. 98–181, title I, § 1201](/us/pl/98/181/tI/s1201), Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1289](/us/stat/97/1289); [Pub. L. 116–344, § 1](/us/pl/116/344/s1), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5141](/us/stat/134/5141).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61e–4 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61e–4) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1984.

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–344](/us/pl/116/344) substituted “on his behalf, any voucher for payment of moneys, payroll action, or personnel action” for “on his behalf, all vouchers, for payment of moneys,” and “approval of any voucher for payment of moneys, payroll action, or personnel action” for “approval of any voucher, for payment of moneys,”.
