---
title: "§ 10501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. E, title LIV, § 5402](/us/pl/118/31/dE/tLIV/s5402), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 944](/us/stat/137/944).)"
---
# § 10501. Definitions

##### § 10501. Definitions

(1) The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.

(2) The term “corrupt actor” means—

(A) any foreign person or entity that is a government official or government entity responsible for, or complicit in, an act of corruption; and

(B) any company, in which a person or entity described in subparagraph (A) has a significant stake, which is responsible for, or complicit in, an act of corruption.

(3) The term “corruption” means the unlawful exercise of entrusted public power for private gain, including by bribery, nepotism, fraud, or embezzlement.

(4) The term “significant corruption” means corruption committed at a high level of government that has some or all of the following characteristics:

(A) Illegitimately distorts major decision-making, such as policy or resource determinations, or other fundamental functions of governance.

(B) Involves economically or socially large-scale government activities.

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. E, title LIV, § 5402](/us/pl/118/31/dE/tLIV/s5402), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 944](/us/stat/137/944).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. E, title LIV, § 5401](/us/pl/118/31/dE/tLIV/s5401), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 944](/us/stat/137/944), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle A (§§ 5401–5406) of title LIV of div. E of [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31), enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Combating Global Corruption Act’.”
