---
title: "§ 32306. Personnel"
identifier: "USC-T49-S32306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section32306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/108/1040).)"
---
# § 32306. Personnel

##### § 32306. Personnel

(a) General Authority.— In carrying out this chapter, the Secretary of Transportation may—

(1) appoint and fix the pay of employees without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointment in the competitive service and chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5; and

(2) make contracts with persons for research and preparation of reports.

(b) Status of Advisory Committee Members.— A member of an advisory committee appointed under [section 325 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s325) to carry out this chapter is a special United States Government employee under chapter 11 of title 18.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1040](/us/stat/108/1040).)*

In subsection (a), before clause (1), the words “his functions under” are omitted as surplus. In clause (1), the words “as he deems necessary” are omitted as surplus. The words “chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5” are substituted for “the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates” to eliminate unnecessary words. The text of 15:1942 (1st sentence cl. (2)) is omitted as surplus because of 49:323(b). The text of 15:1942 (1st sentence cl. (4), 2d sentence) is omitted as surplus because of 49:325.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 32306(a) | 15:1942 (1st, 2d sentences). | Oct. 20, 1972, Pub. L. 92–513, § 202, 86 Stat. 956. |
| 32306(b) | 15:1942 (last sentence). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The provisions of title 5 governing appointment in the competitive service, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), are classified generally to section 3301 et seq. of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
