---
title: "§ 7281. Service medals: issue; replacement; availability of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7281"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7281"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 217](/us/stat/70A/217), § 3751; renumbered § 7281, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(b)(11)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/b/11), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1838](/us/stat/132/1838).)"
---
# § 7281. Service medals: issue; replacement; availability of appropriations

##### § 7281. Service medals: issue; replacement; availability of appropriations

(a) The Secretary of the Army shall procure, and issue without charge to any person entitled thereto, any service medal authorized for members of the Army after May 12, 1928, and any ribbon, clasp, star, or similar device prescribed as a part of that medal.

(b) Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, any medal or other device issued under subsection (a) that is lost, destroyed, or becomes unfit for use, without fault or neglect of the owner, may be replaced at cost. However, if the owner is a member of the Army or the Air Force, the medal or device may be replaced without charge.

(c) The Secretary may spend, from any appropriation for the support of the Army, amounts necessary to provide medals and devices under this section.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 217](/us/stat/70A/217), § 3751; renumbered § 7281, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(b)(11)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/b/11), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1838](/us/stat/132/1838).)*

In subsection (a), 10:1415a (proviso) is omitted as surplusage, since the revised section is not limited to persons who are members of the Army at the time of the issue.

In subsection (b), the words “member of the Army or the Air Force” are substituted for the words “persons in the military service of the United States”.

In subsection (c), the last 16 words are substituted for 10:1415c (last 16 words).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 3751(a) 3751(b) 3751(c) | 10:1415a (less 21st through 30th words, and less clauses (a) through (n)).10:1415b (less applicability to 10:1415a (clauses (a) through (n)).10:1415c (less applicability to 10:1415a (clauses (a) through (n)). | May 12, 1928, ch. 528, §§ 1 (less 25th through 34th words, and less clauses (a) through (n)), 2 (less applicability to § 1 clauses (a) through (n)), 3 (less applicability to § 1 (clauses (a) through (n)), 45 Stat. 500. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 3751 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3751) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Issuance of Certain Other Medals and Devices

[Act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, § 33](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041/s33), [70A Stat. 633](/us/stat/70A/633), provided that: “(a) The Secretary of the Army shall procure, and issue without charge to any person entitled thereto, the following service medals, and any ribbon, clasp, star, or similar device prescribed as a part of that medal:“(1) Civil War campaign medal; “(2) Indian campaign medal; “(3) Spanish campaign medal; “(4) Spanish War service medal; “(5) Cuban occupation medal; “(6) Puerto Rico occupation medal; “(7) Philippine campaign medal; “(8) Philippine Congressional medal; “(9) China campaign medal; “(10) Cuban pacification medal; “(11) Mexican service medal; “(12) Mexican border service medal; “(13) Victory medal and clasps; and “(14) fourragere as an individual decoration. “(b) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, any medal or other device issued under subsection (a) that is lost, destroyed, or becomes unfit for use, without fault or neglect of the owner, may be replaced at cost. However, if the owner is a member of the Army or the Air Force, the medal or device may be replaced without charge. “(c) The Secretary may spend, from any appropriation for the support of the Army, amounts necessary to provide medals and devices under this section. “(d) If a person dies before a medal or device is presented to him under subsection (a), it may be presented to his family.”
