---
title: "§ 962. Arming vessel against friendly nation"
identifier: "USC-T18-S962"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section962"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 746](/us/stat/62/746); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 962. Arming vessel against friendly nation

##### § 962. Arming vessel against friendly nation

Whoever, within the United States, furnishes, fits out, arms, or attempts to furnish, fit out or arm, any vessel, with intent that such vessel shall be employed in the service of any foreign prince, or state, or of any colony, district, or people, to cruise, or commit hostilities against the subjects, citizens, or property of any foreign prince or state, or of any colony, district, or people with whom the United States is at peace; or

Whoever issues or delivers a commission within the United States for any vessel, to the intent that she may be so employed—

Shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both.

Every such vessel, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, together with all materials, arms, ammunition, and stores which may have been procured for the building and equipment thereof, shall be forfeited, one half to the use of the informer and the other half to the use of the United States.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 746](/us/stat/62/746); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 23 ([Mar. 4, 1909, ch. 321, § 11](/us/act/1909-03-04/ch321/s11), [35 Stat. 1090](/us/stat/35/1090)).

Reference to persons causing or procuring was omitted as unnecessary in view of definition of “principal” in [section 2 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s2).

Words “within the United States” were substituted for “within the jurisdiction” etc., in view of the definition of United States in [section 5 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s5).

Mandatory punishment provision was rephrased in the alternative.

Minor change was made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $10,000” in third par.
