---
title: "§ 3112. Annual reports on the domestic activities of the intelligence community"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 513, as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title V, § 505(b)](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tV/s505/b), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 989](/us/stat/136/989).)"
---
# § 3112. Annual reports on the domestic activities of the intelligence community

##### § 3112. Annual reports on the domestic activities of the intelligence community

(a) Reports Not later than January 31 of each year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report—

(1) identifying all domestic activities undertaken by each element of the intelligence community during the prior fiscal year; and

(2) for each activity identified under paragraph (1), a statement of the legal authority authorizing such activity to be undertaken.

(b) Form Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 513, as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title V, § 505(b)](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tV/s505/b), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 989](/us/stat/136/989).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### First Report; Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title V, § 505(c)](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tV/s505/c), (d), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 989](/us/stat/136/989), provided that: “(c) First Report.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 15, 2022], the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the first report required under section 513 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3112](/us/usc/t50/s3112)], as added by subsection (a). “(d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.—In this section, the term ‘appropriate congressional committees’ means—“(1) the congressional intelligence committees; and “(2) the Subcommittees on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies and the Subcommittees on Homeland Security of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.”

[For definition of “congressional intelligence committees” as used in [section 505(d) of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dX/s505/d), set out above, see [section 2 of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dX/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).]
