---
title: "§ 18791. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18791"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18791"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, § 40501](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tV/s40501), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1050](/us/stat/135/1050).)"
---
# § 18791. Definitions

##### § 18791. Definitions

(1) Priority State The term “priority State” means a State that—

(A) is eligible for funding under the State Energy Program; and

(B)

(i) is among the 15 States with the highest annual per-capita combined residential and commercial sector energy consumption, as most recently reported by the Energy Information Administration; or

(ii) is among the 15 States with the highest annual per-capita energy-related carbon dioxide emissions by State, as most recently reported by the Energy Information Administration.

(2) Program The term “program” means the program established under [section 18792(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18792/a).

(3) State The term “State” means a State (as defined in [section 6202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6202)), acting through a State energy office.

(4) State Energy Program The term “State Energy Program” means the State Energy Program established under part D of title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act ([42 U.S.C. 6321](/us/usc/t42/s6321) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, § 40501](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tV/s40501), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1050](/us/stat/135/1050).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Energy Policy and Conservation Act, referred to in par. (4), is [Pub. L. 94–163](/us/pl/94/163), Dec. 22, 1975, [89 Stat. 871](/us/stat/89/871). Part D of title III of the Act is classified generally to part B (§ 6321 et seq.) of subchapter III of chapter 77 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6201) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), including authority of Secretary of Labor, see [section 18851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18851).
