---
title: "§ 8954. Benefits"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8954"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8954"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–496, § 2](/us/pl/108/496/s2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 4003](/us/stat/118/4003).)"
---
# § 8954. Benefits

##### § 8954. Benefits

(a) The Office may prescribe reasonable minimum standards for enhanced dental benefits plans offered under this chapter and for qualified companies offering the plans.

(b) Each contract may include more than 1 level of benefits that shall be made available to all eligible individuals.

(c) The benefits to be provided under enhanced dental benefits plans under this chapter may be of the following types:

(1) Diagnostic.

(2) Preventive.

(3) Emergency care.

(4) Restorative.

(5) Oral and maxillofacial surgery.

(6) Endodontics.

(7) Periodontics.

(8) Prosthodontics.

(9) Orthodontics.

(d) A contract approved under this chapter shall require the qualified company to cover the geographic service delivery area specified by the Office. The Office shall require qualified companies to include dentally underserved areas in their service delivery areas.

(e) If an individual has dental coverage under a health benefits plan under chapter 89 and also has coverage under a plan under this chapter, the health benefits plan under chapter 89 shall be the first payor of any benefit payments.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–496, § 2](/us/pl/108/496/s2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 4003](/us/stat/118/4003).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 23, 2004, and applicable to contracts that take effect with respect to the calendar year 2006, see [section 7 of Pub. L. 108–496](/us/pl/108/496/s7), set out as a note under [section 8951 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8951).
