---
title: "§ 1060b. Military ID cards: dependents and survivors of retirees"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1060b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1060b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, § 583(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tV/s583/a/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1929](/us/stat/118/1929); amended [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, § 598(a)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tV/s598/a), (b)(1), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2237](/us/stat/120/2237).)"
---
# § 1060b. Military ID cards: dependents and survivors of retirees

##### § 1060b. Military ID cards: dependents and survivors of retirees

(a) Issuance of Permanent ID Card.—

(1) In issuing military ID cards to retiree dependents, the Secretary concerned shall issue a permanent ID card (not subject to renewal) to any such retiree dependent as follows:

(A) A retiree dependent who has attained 75 years of age.

(B) A retiree dependent who is permanently disabled.

(2) A permanent ID card shall be issued to a retiree dependent under paragraph (1)(A) upon the expiration, after the retiree dependent attains 75 years of age, of any earlier, renewable military card or, if earlier, upon the request of the retiree dependent after attaining age 75.

(b) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “military ID card” means a card or other form of identification used for purposes of demonstrating eligibility for any benefit from the Department of Defense.

(2) The term “retiree dependent” means a person who is a dependent of a retired member of the uniformed services, or a survivor of a deceased retired member of the uniformed services, who is eligible for any benefit from the Department of Defense.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, § 583(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tV/s583/a/1), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1929](/us/stat/118/1929); amended [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, § 598(a)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tV/s598/a), (b)(1), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2237](/us/stat/120/2237).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–364, § 598(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/364/s598/b/1), struck out “; issuance of permanent ID card after attaining 75 years of age” after “retirees” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–364, § 598(a)](/us/pl/109/364/s598/a), amended heading and text of subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “In issuing military ID cards to retiree dependents, the Secretary concerned shall issue a permanent ID card (not subject to renewal) to any such retiree dependent who has attained 75 years of age. Such a permanent ID card shall be issued upon the expiration, after the retiree dependent attains 75 years of age, of any earlier, renewable military ID card or, if earlier, upon the request of such a retiree dependent after attaining age 75.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, § 583(b)](/us/pl/108/375/dA/tV/s583/b), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 1929](/us/stat/118/1929), provided that: “[Section 1060b of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1060b), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on October 1, 2004.”
