---
title: "§ 290bb–44. Assertive community treatment grant program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290bb–44"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290bb–44"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 520M, as added [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title IX, § 9015](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tIX/s9015), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1245](/us/stat/130/1245); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1123(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1123/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5653](/us/stat/136/5653).)"
---
# § 290bb–44. Assertive community treatment grant program

##### § 290bb–44. Assertive community treatment grant program

(a) In general The Assistant Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities—

(1) to establish assertive community treatment programs for adults with a serious mental illness; or

(2) to maintain or expand such programs.

(b) Eligible entities To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall be a State, political subdivision of a State, Indian Tribe or Tribal organization (as such terms are defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304)), mental health system, health care facility, or any other entity the Assistant Secretary deems appropriate.

(c) Special consideration In selecting among applicants for a grant under this section, the Assistant Secretary may give special consideration to the potential of the applicant’s program to reduce hospitalization, homelessness, and involvement with the criminal justice system while improving the health and social outcomes of the patient.

(d) Additional activities The Assistant Secretary shall—

(1) not later than the end of fiscal year 2026, submit a report to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives on the grant program under this section, including an evaluation of—

(A) any cost savings and public health outcomes such as mortality, suicide, substance use disorders, hospitalization, and use of services;

(B) rates of involvement with the criminal justice system of patients;

(C) rates of homelessness among patients; and

(D) patient and family satisfaction with program participation; and

(2) provide appropriate information, training, and technical assistance to grant recipients under this section to help such recipients to establish, maintain, or expand their assertive community treatment programs.

(e) Authorization of appropriations

(1) In general To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $9,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

(2) Use of certain funds Of the funds appropriated to carry out this section in any fiscal year, not more than 5 percent shall be available to the Assistant Secretary for carrying out subsection (d).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 520M, as added [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title IX, § 9015](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tIX/s9015), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1245](/us/stat/130/1245); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1123(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1123/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5653](/us/stat/136/5653).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1123(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/328/s1123/a/1), substituted “Indian Tribe or Tribal organization” for “Indian tribe or tribal organization”.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1123(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/328/s1123/a/2), in introductory provisions, substituted “not later than the end of fiscal year 2026” for “not later than the end of fiscal year 2021” and “Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives” for “appropriate congressional committees”.

Subsec. (e)(1). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1123(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/328/s1123/a/3), substituted “$9,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027” for “$5,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2022”.
