---
title: "§ 6533. Abolition of Office of Inspector General of United States Information Agency and transfer of functions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6533"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6533"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XIII, § 1314, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–776](/us/stat/112/2681-776).)"
---
# § 6533. Abolition of Office of Inspector General of United States Information Agency and transfer of functions

##### § 6533. Abolition of Office of Inspector General of United States Information Agency and transfer of functions

(a) Abolition of Office The Office of Inspector General of the United States Information Agency is abolished.

(b) to (d) Omitted

(e) Transfer of functions There are transferred to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service the functions that the Office of Inspector General of the United States Information Agency exercised before the effective date of this subchapter (including all related functions of the Inspector General of the United States Information Agency).

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XIII, § 1314, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–776](/us/stat/112/2681-776).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For the effective date of this subchapter, referred to in subsec. (e), meaning the effective date of title XIII of subdiv. A of div. G of [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), see [section 1301 of Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277/s1301), set out as a note under [section 6531 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6531).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 1314 of Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277/s1314). Subsec. (b) of [section 1314 of Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277/s1314) amended section 11 of the Inspector General Act of 1978, formerly set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and subsecs. (c) and (d) of [section 1314 of Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277/s1314) amended [section 5315 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315) and [section 6207 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6207), respectively.
