---
title: "§ 4103. Claims of employees of contractors"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title I, § 4, [62 Stat. 1241](/us/stat/62/1241); 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 19, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1271](/us/stat/64/1271); [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 102](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s102), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)"
---
# § 4103. Claims of employees of contractors

##### § 4103. Claims of employees of contractors

(a) Payment by Secretary of Labor of certain claims; execution of releases The Secretary of Labor is authorized to receive, adjudicate according to law, and provide for the payment of any claim filed by any person specified in section 101(a) of the Act entitled “An Act to provide benefits for the injury, disability, death, or enemy detention of employees of contractors with the United States, and for other purposes”, approved December 2, 1942, as amended [[42 U.S.C. 1701(a)](/us/usc/t42/s1701/a)], or by the legal representative of any such person who may have died, for the amount by which (1) the total sum which would have been payable to such person by his employer (not including any payments for overtime), if such person’s contract of employment had been in effect and he had been paid under it for the entire period during which he was entitled to receive benefits under section 101(b) of such Act [[42 U.S.C. 1701(b)](/us/usc/t42/s1701/b)], exceeds (2) the entire amount creditable to such person’s account for such period under the provisions of such section plus any amounts paid to such person by such employer for such period or recovered by such person in any legal action against such employer based upon such person’s right against such employer for such period under the contract of employment, including payments in settlement of the liability of the employer arising under or out of such contract. No claim shall be allowed to any person under the provisions of this section unless such person executes a full release to the employer and to the United States in respect to the liability of the employer arising under or out of the contract of employment, except liability for workmen’s compensation benefits under the Act of August 16, 1941, as amended [[42 U.S.C. 1651](/us/usc/t42/s1651) et seq.] or detention or other benefits paid under the Act of December 2, 1942, as amended [[42 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t42/s1701) et seq.]. Any claim allowed under the provisions of this section shall be certified by the Secretary of Labor to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment out of the War Claims Fund established by [section 4110 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4110).

(b) Cancellation of employees’ obligations; repayment to employees

(1) The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to cancel any obligation to the United States of any person specified in section 101(a) of such Act of December 2, 1942 [[42 U.S.C. 1701(a)](/us/usc/t42/s1701/a)], to pay any sum which may have been advanced to or on behalf of any such person by the Department of State for the purpose of paying the costs of food and medical services furnished to such person during his period of internment by the Imperial Japanese Government or for the purpose of paying transportation or other expenses of repatriation.

(2) The Secretary of Labor is authorized to receive, adjudicate according to law, and provide for the payment of any claim filed by any person specified in section 101(a) of such Act of December 2, 1942 [[42 U.S.C. 1701(a)](/us/usc/t42/s1701/a)], for the repayment of any sum which may have been paid by such person to the Department of State in settlement of any obligation of the type referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection. Any claim allowed under the provisions of this paragraph shall be certified by the Secretary of Labor to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment out of the War Claims Fund established by [section 4110 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4110).

(c) Omitted

*([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title I, § 4, [62 Stat. 1241](/us/stat/62/1241); 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 19, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1271](/us/stat/64/1271); [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 102](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s102), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of August 16, 1941, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Aug. 16, 1941, ch. 357](/us/act/1941-08-16/ch357), [55 Stat. 622](/us/stat/55/622), known as the Defense Base Act, which is classified generally to chapter 11 (§ 1651 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1651 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1651) and Tables.

Act of December 2, 1942, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Dec. 2, 1942, ch. 668](/us/act/1942-12-02/ch668), [56 Stat. 1028](/us/stat/56/1028), which is classified principally to chapter 12 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 4 of act July 3, 1948. Subsec. (c) of section 4 of act July 3, 1948, amended [section 1702 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1702), The Public Health and Welfare.

Section was formerly classified to section 2003 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1962—Subsecs. (a), (b)(2). [Pub. L. 87–846](/us/pl/87/846) made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 4110 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4110).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For provisions transferring Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States to Department of Justice, as a separate agency, see section 1622a et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Labor” substituted in subsecs. (a) and (b) for “Federal Security Administrator” and “Administrator” pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. 19 of 1950, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1271](/us/stat/64/1271), which transferred functions of Federal Security Administrator and Federal Security Agency under this section to Secretary of Labor, with power to delegate, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), §8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 662](/us/stat/80/662). See [section 8145 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8145), Government Organization and Employees.

War Claims Commission, including offices of its members, abolished and functions and funds transferred to Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1954, §§ 2, 4, 6(c), eff. July 1, 1954, 19 F.R. 3985, [68 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/68/1279), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. See, also, [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4101) and notes thereunder.
