---
title: "§ 3205. Tsunami research program"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3205"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3205"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–424, § 6](/us/pl/109/424/s6), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 2907](/us/stat/120/2907); [Pub. L. 109–479, title VIII, § 806](/us/pl/109/479/tVIII/s806), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3658](/us/stat/120/3658); [Pub. L. 115–25, title V](/us/pl/115/25/tV), §§ 506, 512(a), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 123](/us/stat/131/123), 128.)"
---
# § 3205. Tsunami research program

##### § 3205. Tsunami research program

(a) In general The Administrator shall, in consultation with such other Federal agencies, State, tribal, and territorial governments, and academic institutions as the Administrator considers appropriate, the coordinating committee under section 3204(d) 11 So in original. Probably should read “section 3204(b)”. of this title, and the panel under [section 3206a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3206a/a), support or maintain a tsunami research program to develop detection, forecast, communication, and mitigation science and technology, including advanced sensing techniques, information and communication technology, data collection, analysis, assessment for tsunami tracking and numerical forecast modeling, and standards development.

(b) Responsibilities The research program supported or maintained under subsection (a) shall—

(1) consider other appropriate and cost effective solutions to mitigate the impact of tsunami, including the improvement of near-field and distant tsunami detection and forecasting capabilities, which may include use of a new generation of the Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of Tsunamis array, integration of tsunami sensors into commercial and Federal telecommunications cables, and other real-time tsunami monitoring systems and supercomputer capacity of the Administration to develop a rapid tsunami forecast for all United States coastlines;

(2) coordinate with the National Weather Service on technology to be transferred to operations;

(3) conduct social science research to develop and assess community warning, education, and evacuation materials;

(4) develop the technical basis for validation of tsunami maps, numerical tsunami models, digital elevation models, and forecasts; and

(5) ensure that research and findings are available to the public and the scientific community.

*([Pub. L. 109–424, § 6](/us/pl/109/424/s6), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 2907](/us/stat/120/2907); [Pub. L. 109–479, title VIII, § 806](/us/pl/109/479/tVIII/s806), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3658](/us/stat/120/3658); [Pub. L. 115–25, title V](/us/pl/115/25/tV), §§ 506, 512(a), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 123](/us/stat/131/123), 128.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 109–424](/us/pl/109/424) and title VIII of [Pub. L. 109–479](/us/pl/109/479) enacted substantially identical sections. [Pub. L. 109–424](/us/pl/109/424) was repealed by [section 512(a) of Pub. L. 115–25](/us/pl/115/25/s512/a).

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–25, § 506(1)](/us/pl/115/25/s506/1), (2), designated first and second sentences of existing provisions as subsecs. (a) and (b), respectively, and inserted headings.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 506(1)](/us/pl/115/25/s506/1), (2), substituted “The Administrator shall, in consultation with such other Federal agencies, State, tribal, and territorial governments, and academic institutions as the Administrator considers appropriate, the coordinating committee under [section 3204(d) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3204/d), and the panel under [section 3206a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3206a/a), support or maintain” for “The Administrator shall, in consultation with other agencies and academic institutions, and with the coordinating committee established under [section 3204(b) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3204/b), establish or maintain” and “assessment for tsunami tracking and numerical forecast modeling, and standards development.” for “and assessment for tsunami tracking and numerical forecast modeling.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 506(2)](/us/pl/115/25/s506/2), substituted “The research program supported or maintained under subsection (a) shall—” for “Such research program shall—”.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 506(3)(A)](/us/pl/115/25/s506/3/A), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “consider other appropriate research to mitigate the impact of tsunami;”.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 506(3)(B)](/us/pl/115/25/s506/3/B), substituted “conduct” for “include” and struck out “and” at end.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 506(3)(D)](/us/pl/115/25/s506/3/D), added par. (4). Former par. (4) redesignated (5).

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 506(3)(C)](/us/pl/115/25/s506/3/C), (E), redesignated par. (4) as (5) and substituted “to the public and the scientific community” for “to the scientific community”.
