---
title: "§ 4421. Weapon system component or technology prototype projects: display of budget information"
identifier: "USC-T10-S4421"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4421"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s806/a/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2256](/us/stat/130/2256), § 2447a; amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 836(e)(8)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s836/e/8), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1870](/us/stat/132/1870); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVII, § 1731(a)(51)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXVII/s1731/a/51), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1815](/us/stat/133/1815); renumbered § 4421, [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § "
---
# § 4421. Weapon system component or technology prototype projects: display of budget information

##### § 4421. Weapon system component or technology prototype projects: display of budget information

(a) Requirements for Budget Display.— In the defense budget materials for any fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall, with respect to advanced component development and prototype activities (within the research, development, test, and evaluation budget), set forth the amounts requested for each of the following:

(1) Acquisition programs of record.

(2) Development, prototyping, and experimentation of weapon system components or other technologies, including those based on commercial products and technologies, separate from acquisition programs of record.

(3) Other budget line items as determined by the Secretary of Defense.

(b) Additional Requirements.— For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the amounts requested for development, prototyping, and experimentation of weapon system components or other technologies shall be—

(1) structured into either capability, weapon system component, or technology portfolios that reflect the priority areas for prototype projects; and

(2) justified with general descriptions of the types of capability areas and technologies being funded or expected to be funded during the fiscal year concerned.

(c) Definitions.— In this section, the terms “budget” and “defense budget materials” have the meaning given those terms in [section 234 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s234) and the term “commercial product” has the meaning given that term in [section 103 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s103).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s806/a/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2256](/us/stat/130/2256), § 2447a; amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 836(e)(8)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s836/e/8), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1870](/us/stat/132/1870); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVII, § 1731(a)(51)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXVII/s1731/a/51), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1815](/us/stat/133/1815); renumbered § 4421, [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1851(c)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1851/c/1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4272](/us/stat/134/4272).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) renumbered [section 2447a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2447a) as this section.

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) struck out “after fiscal year 2017” after “any fiscal year” in introductory provisions.

2018—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 115–232, § 836(e)(8)(A)](/us/pl/115/232/s836/e/8/A), substituted “commercial products and technologies” for “commercial items and technologies”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–232, § 836(e)(8)(B)](/us/pl/115/232/s836/e/8/B), inserted before period at end “and the term ‘commercial product’ has the meaning given that term in [section 103 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s103)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Jan. 1, 2020, subject to a savings provision, see [section 836(h) of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s836/h), set out as an Effective Date of 2018 Amendment; Savings Provision note under [section 453b of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s453b), Domestic Security.

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(2)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s806/a/2), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2259](/us/stat/130/2259), provided that: “Subchapter II of chapter 144B of title 10, United States Code [see, now, this subchapter], as added by paragraph (1), shall take effect on January 1, 2017.”
