---
title: "§ 102. Attendance of witnesses"
identifier: "USC-T43-S102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Jan. 31, 1903, ch. 344, § 1](/us/act/1903-01-31/ch344/s1), [32 Stat. 790](/us/stat/32/790); [Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, § 1](/us/act/1921-10-28/ch114/s1), [42 Stat. 208](/us/stat/42/208); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1145](/us/stat/43/1145); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 102. Attendance of witnesses

##### § 102. Attendance of witnesses

Officers of district land offices designated by the Secretary of the Interior in all matters requiring a hearing before them are authorized and empowered to issue subpoenas directing the attendance of witnesses, which subpoenas may be served by any person by delivering a true copy thereof to such witness, and when served, witnesses shall be required to attend in obedience thereto: *Provided*, That if any subpoena be served under the provisions of this section by any person other than an officer authorized by the laws of the United States, or of the State or Territory in which the depositions are taken, the service thereof shall be proved by the affidavit of the person serving the same: *Provided further*, That said subpoenas shall be served within the county in which attendance is required, and at least five days before attendance is required.

*([Jan. 31, 1903, ch. 344, § 1](/us/act/1903-01-31/ch344/s1), [32 Stat. 790](/us/stat/32/790); [Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, § 1](/us/act/1921-10-28/ch114/s1), [42 Stat. 208](/us/stat/42/208); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1145](/us/stat/43/1145); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The original text of this section referred to both registers and receivers, but reference to the latter was omitted in view of the abolition of such office under acts Oct. 28, 1921, and Mar. 3, 1925, which provided for the consolidation of the two offices under a register only. See, also, Transfer of Functions note below.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

“Officers of district land offices designated by the Secretary of the Interior” substituted for “Registers of the land office, or either of them,” on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946. See note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1).
