---
title: "§ 262–1. Restriction relating to United States accession to any new international criminal tribunal"
identifier: "USC-T22-S262–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section262–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXV, § 2502, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–836](/us/stat/112/2681-836).)"
---
# § 262–1. Restriction relating to United States accession to any new international criminal tribunal

##### § 262–1. Restriction relating to United States accession to any new international criminal tribunal

(a) Prohibition The United States shall not become a party to any new international criminal tribunal, nor give legal effect to the jurisdiction of such a tribunal over any matter described in subsection (b), except pursuant to—

(1) a treaty made under Article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States on or after October 21, 1998; or

(2) any statute enacted by Congress on or after October 21, 1998.

(b) Jurisdiction described The jurisdiction described in this section is jurisdiction over—

(1) persons found, property located, or acts or omissions committed, within the territory of the United States; or

(2) nationals of the United States, wherever found.

(c) Statutory construction Nothing in this section precludes sharing information, expertise, or other forms of assistance with such tribunal.

(d) “New international criminal tribunal” defined The term “new international criminal tribunal” means any permanent international criminal tribunal established on or after October 21, 1998, and does not include—

(1) the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia, as established by United Nations Security Council Resolution 827 of May 25, 1993; or

(2) the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighboring States, as established by United Nations Security Council Resolution 955 of November 8, 1994.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXV, § 2502, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–836](/us/stat/112/2681-836).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Restriction Relating to United States Accession to the International Criminal Court

[Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 705]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s705), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–460, formerly set out as a note under this section, was transferred and is classified to [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7401).

#### Prohibition on Extradition or Transfer of United States Citizens to the International Criminal Court

[Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 706]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s706), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–461, formerly set out as a note under this section, was transferred and is classified to [section 7402 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7402).
