---
title: "§ 765. Transfer of functions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S765"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section765"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–275, § 6](/us/pl/93/275/s6), May 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 100](/us/stat/88/100).)"
---
# § 765. Transfer of functions

##### § 765. Transfer of functions

(a) Functions of Secretary and Department of the Interior There are hereby transferred to and vested in the Administrator all functions of the Secretary of the Interior, the Department of the Interior, and officers and components of that Department—

(1) as relate to or are utilized by the Office of Petroleum Allocation;

(2) as relate to or are utilized by the Office of Energy Conservation;

(3) as relate to or are utilized by the Office of Energy Data and Analysis; and

(4) as relate to or are utilized by the Office of Oil and Gas.

(b) Functions of Chairman and Executive Director of Cost of Living Council There are hereby transferred to and vested in the Administrator all functions of the Chairman of the Cost of Living Council, the Executive Director of the Cost of Living Council, and the Cost of Living Council, and officers and components thereof, as relate to or are utilized by the Energy Division of the Cost of Living Council.

*([Pub. L. 93–275, § 6](/us/pl/93/275/s6), May 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 100](/us/stat/88/100).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Federal Energy Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Abolition of Cost of Living Council

Cost of Living Council abolished July 1, 1974, by Ex. Ord. No. 11788, § 1, June 18, 1974, 39 F.R. 22113.
