---
title: "§ 6160. Information relating to certain defense nuclear nonproliferation programs"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6160"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6160"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2)(B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1385](/us/stat/139/1385), 1462.)"
---
# § 6160. Information relating to certain defense nuclear nonproliferation programs

##### § 6160. Information relating to certain defense nuclear nonproliferation programs

(a) Technologies and Capabilities.— The Administrator shall document, for efforts that are not focused on basic research, the technologies and capabilities of the defense nuclear nonproliferation research and development program that—

(1) are transitioned to end users for further development or deployment; and

(2) are deployed.

(b) Assessments of Status.—

(1) In assessing projects under the defense nuclear nonproliferation research and development program or the defense nuclear nonproliferation and arms control program, the Administrator shall compare the status of each such project, including with respect to the final results of such project, to the baseline targets and goals established in the initial project plan of such project.

(2) The Administrator may carry out paragraph (1) using a common template or such other means as the Administrator determines appropriate.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2)(B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1385](/us/stat/139/1385), 1462.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6160 was renumbered [section 8270 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8270).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2576 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2576), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(d)(2)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/d/2/B), realigned margins.
