---
title: "§ 302701. Program to assist Indian tribes in preserving historic property"
identifier: "USC-T54-S302701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section302701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3199](/us/stat/128/3199).)"
---
# § 302701. Program to assist Indian tribes in preserving historic property

##### § 302701. Program to assist Indian tribes in preserving historic property

(a) Establishment of Program.— The Secretary shall establish a program and promulgate regulations to assist Indian tribes in preserving their historic property.

(b) Communication and Cooperation.— The Secretary shall foster communication and cooperation between Indian tribes and State Historic Preservation Officers in the administration of the national historic preservation program to—

(1) ensure that all types of historic property and all public interests in historic property are given due consideration; and

(2) encourage coordination among Indian tribes, State Historic Preservation Officers, and Federal agencies in historic preservation planning and in the identification, evaluation, protection, and interpretation of historic property.

(c) Tribal Values.— The program under subsection (a) shall be developed in a manner to ensure that tribal values are taken into account to the extent feasible. The Secretary may waive or modify requirements of this subdivision to conform to the cultural setting of tribal heritage preservation goals and objectives.

(d) Scope of Tribal Programs.— The tribal programs implemented by specific tribal organizations may vary in scope, as determined by each Indian tribe’s chief governing authority.

(e) Consultation.— The Secretary shall consult with Indian tribes, other Federal agencies, State Historic Preservations 11 So in original. Probably should be “Preservation”. Officers, and other interested parties concerning the program under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3199](/us/stat/128/3199).)*

In subsection (e), the words “and initiate the program under subparagraph (A) by not later than October 1, 1994” are omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 302701 | 16 U.S.C. 470a(d)(1). | Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(d)(1), as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4006(a)(2), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4755. |
