---
title: "§ 4316. Commercial Customs Operations Advisory Committee"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4316"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4316"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–125, title I, § 109](/us/pl/114/125/tI/s109), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 136](/us/stat/130/136); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(143)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/143), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4321](/us/stat/136/4321).)"
---
# § 4316. Commercial Customs Operations Advisory Committee

##### § 4316. Commercial Customs Operations Advisory Committee

(a) Establishment Not later than the date that is 60 days after February 24, 2016, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly establish a Commercial Customs Operations Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Advisory Committee”).

(b) Membership

(1) In general The Advisory Committee shall be comprised of—

(A) 20 individuals appointed under paragraph (2);

(B) the Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy of the Department of the Treasury and the Commissioner, who shall jointly co-chair meetings of the Advisory Committee; and

(C) the Assistant Secretary for Policy and the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who shall serve as deputy co-chairs of meetings of the Advisory Committee.

(2) Appointment

(A) In general The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly appoint 20 individuals from the private sector to the Advisory Committee.

(B) Requirements In making appointments under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall appoint members—

(i) to ensure that the membership of the Advisory Committee is representative of the individuals and firms affected by the commercial operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection; and

(ii) without regard to political affiliation.

(C) Terms Each individual appointed to the Advisory Committee under this paragraph shall be appointed for a term of not more than 3 years, and may be reappointed to subsequent terms, but may not serve more than 2 terms sequentially.

(3) Transfer of membership The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security may transfer members serving on the Advisory Committee on Commercial Operations of the United States Customs Service established under section 9503(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 ([19 U.S.C. 2071](/us/usc/t19/s2071) note) 11 See References in Text note below. on the day before February 24, 2016, to the Advisory Committee established under subsection (a).

(c) Duties The Advisory Committee established under subsection (a) shall—

(1) advise the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security on all matters involving the commercial operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, including advising with respect to significant changes that are proposed with respect to regulations, policies, or practices of U.S. Customs and Border Protection;

(2) provide recommendations to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security on improvements to the commercial operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection;

(3) collaborate in developing the agenda for Advisory Committee meetings; and

(4) perform such other functions relating to the commercial operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection as prescribed by law or as the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security jointly direct.

(d) Meetings Notwithstanding [section 1009(f) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1009/f), the Advisory Committee shall meet at the call of the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security, or at the call of not less than ⅔ of the membership of the Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee shall meet at least 4 times each calendar year.

(e) Annual report Not later than December 31, 2016, and annually thereafter, the Advisory Committee shall submit to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives a report that—

(1) describes the activities of the Advisory Committee during the preceding fiscal year; and

(2) sets forth any recommendations of the Advisory Committee regarding the commercial operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

(f) Termination [Section 1013(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013/a) shall not apply to the Advisory Committee.

(g) Conforming amendment

(1) Omitted

(2) Reference Any reference in law to the Advisory Committee on Commercial Operations of the United States Customs Service established under section 9503(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 ([19 U.S.C. 2071](/us/usc/t19/s2071) note) made on or after the date on which the Advisory Committee is established under subsection (a), shall be deemed a reference to the Commercial Customs Operations Advisory Committee established under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 114–125, title I, § 109](/us/pl/114/125/tI/s109), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 136](/us/stat/130/136); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(143)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/143), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4321](/us/stat/136/4321).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 9503(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987, referred to in subsecs. (b)(3) and (g)(2), is [section 9503(c) of title IX of Pub. L. 100–203](/us/pl/100/203/tIX/s9503/c), which was set out as a note under [section 2071 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2071), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 114–125, title I, § 109(g)(1)](/us/pl/114/125/tI/s109/g/1), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 137](/us/stat/130/137). See Codification note below.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 109 of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s109). Subsec. (g)(1) of [section 109 of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s109) repealed section 9503(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 ([Pub. L. 100–203](/us/pl/100/203)), formerly set out as a note under [section 2071 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2071), effective on the date on which the Advisory Committee was established under subsection (a) of this section. Notice of the establishment of the Advisory Committee on Mar. 29, 2016, was published at 81 F.R. 18865.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(143)(A)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/143/A), substituted “[section 1009(f) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1009/f),” for “section 10(f) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.),”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(143)(B)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/143/B), substituted “[Section 1013(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013/a)” for “Section 14(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.; relating to the termination of advisory committees)”.
