---
title: "§ 626. Compensation of the Director and Deputy Director"
identifier: "USC-T28-S626"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section626"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–219, title I, § 101](/us/pl/90/219/tI/s101), Dec. 20, 1967, [81 Stat. 666](/us/stat/81/666); amended [Pub. L. 100–702, title III, § 304(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/702/tIII/s304/b/1), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4648](/us/stat/102/4648).)"
---
# § 626. Compensation of the Director and Deputy Director

##### § 626. Compensation of the Director and Deputy Director

The compensation of the Director of the Federal Judicial Center shall be the same as that of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, and his appointment and salary shall not be subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in competitive service, or the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title, relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates: *Provided, however*, That any Director who is a justice or judge of the United States in active or retired status shall serve without additional compensation. The compensation of the Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center shall be the same as that of the Deputy Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–219, title I, § 101](/us/pl/90/219/tI/s101), Dec. 20, 1967, [81 Stat. 666](/us/stat/81/666); amended [Pub. L. 100–702, title III, § 304(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/702/tIII/s304/b/1), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4648](/us/stat/102/4648).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The General Schedule, referred to in text, is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–702](/us/pl/100/702) inserted “and Deputy Director” in section catchline and inserted at end of text “The compensation of the Deputy Director of the Federal Judicial Center shall be the same as that of the Deputy Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

[Pub. L. 100–702, title III, § 304(c)](/us/pl/100/702/tIII/s304/c), Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4648](/us/stat/102/4648), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (b) [amending this section] shall be effective for fiscal years beginning on or after October 1, 1988.”
