---
title: "§ 429. Appropriations for Defense intelligence elements: accounts for transfers; transfer authority"
identifier: "USC-T10-S429"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section429"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–87, title IV, § 433(a)](/us/pl/112/87/tIV/s433/a), Jan. 3, 2012, [125 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/125/1894); amended [Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title X, § 1071(c)(5)](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tX/s1071/c/5), (f)(6), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3508](/us/stat/128/3508), 3510.)"
---
# § 429. Appropriations for Defense intelligence elements: accounts for transfers; transfer authority

##### § 429. Appropriations for Defense intelligence elements: accounts for transfers; transfer authority

(a) Accounts for Appropriations for Defense Intelligence Elements.— The Secretary of Defense may transfer appropriations of the Department of Defense which are available for the activities of Defense intelligence elements to an account or accounts established for receipt of such transfers. Each such account may also receive transfers from the Director of National Intelligence if made pursuant to section 102A of the National Security Act of 1947 ([50 U.S.C. 3024](/us/usc/t50/s3024)) and transfers and reimbursements arising from transactions, as authorized by law, between a Defense intelligence element and another entity. Appropriation balances in each such account may be transferred back to the account or accounts from which such appropriations originated as appropriation refunds.

(b) Recordation of Transfers.— Transfers made pursuant to subsection (a) shall be recorded as expenditure transfers.

(c) Availability of Funds.— Funds transferred pursuant to subsection (a) shall remain available for the same time period and for the same purpose as the appropriation from which transferred, and shall remain subject to the same limitations provided in the law making the appropriation.

(d) Obligation and Expenditure of Funds.— Unless otherwise specifically authorized by law, funds transferred pursuant to subsection (a) shall only be obligated and expended in accordance with chapter 15 of title 31 and all other applicable provisions of law.

(e) Defense Intelligence Element Defined.— In this section, the term “Defense intelligence element” means any of the Department of Defense agencies, offices, and elements included within the definition of “intelligence community” under section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 ([50 U.S.C. 3003(4)](/us/usc/t50/s3003/4)).

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–87, title IV, § 433(a)](/us/pl/112/87/tIV/s433/a), Jan. 3, 2012, [125 Stat. 1894](/us/stat/125/1894); amended [Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title X, § 1071(c)(5)](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tX/s1071/c/5), (f)(6), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3508](/us/stat/128/3508), 3510.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–291, § 1071(c)(5)(A)](/us/pl/113/291/s1071/c/5/A), substituted “section 102A of the National Security Act of 1947 ([50 U.S.C. 3024](/us/usc/t50/s3024))” for “Section 102A of the National Security Act of 1947 ([50 U.S.C. 403–1](/us/usc/t50/s403–1))”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 113–291, § 1071(f)(6)](/us/pl/113/291/s1071/f/6), substituted “law” for “act”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 113–291, § 1071(c)(5)(B)](/us/pl/113/291/s1071/c/5/B), substituted “([50 U.S.C. 3003(4)](/us/usc/t50/s3003/4))” for “([50 U.S.C. 401a(4)](/us/usc/t50/s401a/4))”.
