---
title: "§ 9654. Publicly available project information"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9654"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9654"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title IV, § 1444](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tIV/s1444), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3506](/us/stat/132/3506); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXVII, § 8756](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXVII/s8756), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/139/1967).)"
---
# § 9654. Publicly available project information

##### § 9654. Publicly available project information

(1) maintain a user-friendly, publicly available, machine-readable database with detailed project-level information, as appropriate and to the extent practicable, including a description of the support provided by the Corporation under subchapter II of this chapter, which shall include, to the greatest extent feasible for each project—

(A) the information included in the report to Congress under [section 9653 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9653);

(B) project-level performance metrics; and

(C) a description of the development impact of the project, including anticipated impact prior to initiation of the project and assessed impact during and after the completion of the project; and

(2) include a clear link to information about each project supported by the Corporation under subchapter II of this chapter on the internet website of the Department of State, “ForeignAssistance.gov”, or a successor website or other online publication.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title IV, § 1444](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tIV/s1444), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3506](/us/stat/132/3506); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXVII, § 8756](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXVII/s8756), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/139/1967).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60) amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “maintain a user-friendly, publicly available, machine-readable database with detailed project-level information, as appropriate and to the extent practicable, including a description of the support provided by the Corporation under subchapter II of this chapter, including, to the extent feasible, the information included in the report to Congress under [section 9653 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9653) and project-level performance metrics; and”.
