---
title: "§ 12116. Limited endorsements for Guam, American Samoa, and Northern Mariana Islands"
identifier: "USC-T46-S12116"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section12116"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 5](/us/pl/109/304/s5), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1499](/us/stat/120/1499).)"
---
# § 12116. Limited endorsements for Guam, American Samoa, and Northern Mariana Islands

##### § 12116. Limited endorsements for Guam, American Samoa, and Northern Mariana Islands

(a) Endorsements.— A vessel satisfying the requirements of subsection (b) may be issued—

(1) a coastwise endorsement to engage in the coastwise trade of fisheries products between places in Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands; or

(2) a fishery endorsement to engage in fishing in the territorial sea and fishery conservation zone adjacent to Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands.

(b) Requirements.— An endorsement may be issued under subsection (a) for a vessel that—

(1) satisfies the requirements of [section 12103 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s12103);

(2) was not built in the United States, except that for an endorsement under subsection (a)(2), the vessel must not have been built or rebuilt in the United States;

(3) is less than 200 gross tons as measured under [section 14502 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14502), or an alternate tonnage as measured under [section 14302 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14302) as prescribed by the Secretary under [section 14104 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s14104); and

(4) otherwise qualifies under the laws of the United States to engage in the coastwise trade or the fisheries, as the case may be.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 5](/us/pl/109/304/s5), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1499](/us/stat/120/1499).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 12116 | 46:12106(c). |  |
|  | 46:12108(c). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 12116, [Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 589](/us/stat/97/589), originally derived from section 65f of former Title 46, Shipping, related to numbers, signal letters, and identification markings, prior to being repealed by [Pub. L. 100–710, title I](/us/pl/100/710/tI), §§ 106(b)(5), 107(a), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4752](/us/stat/102/4752), effective Jan. 1, 1989.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Territorial Sea of United States

For extension of territorial sea of United States, see Proc. No. 5928, set out as a note under [section 1331 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1331), Public Lands.
