---
title: "§ 1736a. Revolving fund derived from disposal of salvage timber"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1736a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1736a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–381, title I](/us/pl/102/381/tI), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1376](/us/stat/106/1376).)"
---
# § 1736a. Revolving fund derived from disposal of salvage timber

##### § 1736a. Revolving fund derived from disposal of salvage timber

There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a special fund to be derived on and after October 5, 1992, from the Federal share of moneys received from the disposal of salvage timber prepared for sale from the lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior. The money in this fund shall be immediately available to the Bureau of Land Management without further appropriation, for the purposes of planning and preparing salvage timber for disposal, the administration of salvage timber sales, and subsequent site preparation and reforestation.

*([Pub. L. 102–381, title I](/us/pl/102/381/tI), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1376](/us/stat/106/1376).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, and not as part of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Distribution of Receipts

Title I of [Pub. L. 102–381](/us/pl/102/381), [106 Stat. 1376](/us/stat/106/1376), provided in part that: “Nothing in this provision [enacting this section] shall alter the formulas currently in existence by law for the distribution of receipts for the applicable lands and timber resources.”
