---
title: "§ 285b–8. Congenital heart disease"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285b–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285b–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 425, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10411(b)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10411/b/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 989](/us/stat/124/989).)"
---
# § 285b–8. Congenital heart disease

##### § 285b–8. Congenital heart disease

(a) In general The Director of the Institute may expand, intensify, and coordinate research and related activities of the Institute with respect to congenital heart disease, which may include congenital heart disease research with respect to—

(1) causation of congenital heart disease, including genetic causes;

(2) long-term outcomes in individuals with congenital heart disease, including infants, children, teenagers, adults, and elderly individuals;

(3) diagnosis, treatment, and prevention;

(4) studies using longitudinal data and retrospective analysis to identify effective treatments and outcomes for individuals with congenital heart disease; and

(5) identifying barriers to life-long care for individuals with congenital heart disease.

(b) Coordination of research activities The Director of the Institute may coordinate research efforts related to congenital heart disease among multiple research institutions and may develop research networks.

(c) Minority and medically underserved communities In carrying out the activities described in this section, the Director of the Institute shall consider the application of such research and other activities to minority and medically underserved communities.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 425, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10411(b)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10411/b/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 989](/us/stat/124/989).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 285b–8, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 425](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tIV/s425), as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title V, § 504](/us/pl/103/43/tV/s504), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 160](/us/stat/107/160), authorized appropriations to carry out this subpart, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–482, title I](/us/pl/109/482/tI), §§ 103(b)(20), 109, Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3688](/us/stat/120/3688), 3697, applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years.
