---
title: "§ 1522. Acceptance of gifts and bequests for purposes of the Department; separate fund; disbursements"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1522"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1522"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–611, § 1](/us/pl/88/611/s1), Oct. 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 991](/us/stat/78/991).)"
---
# § 1522. Acceptance of gifts and bequests for purposes of the Department; separate fund; disbursements

##### § 1522. Acceptance of gifts and bequests for purposes of the Department; separate fund; disbursements

The Secretary of Commerce is hereby authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts and bequests of property, both real and personal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Department of Commerce. Gifts and bequests of money and the proceeds from sales of other property received as gifts or bequests shall be deposited in the Treasury in a separate fund and shall be disbursed upon order of the Secretary of Commerce. Property accepted pursuant to this provision, and the proceeds thereof, shall be used as nearly as possible in accordance with the terms of the gift or bequest.

*([Pub. L. 88–611, § 1](/us/pl/88/611/s1), Oct. 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 991](/us/stat/78/991).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 608a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s608a) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Funds

[Pub. L. 88–611, § 4(b)](/us/pl/88/611/s4/b), Oct. 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 991](/us/stat/78/991), provided that: “All gifts and bequests received under the provisions of law repealed by subsection (a) of this section [which repealed [section 278a of this title](/us/usc/t15/s278a), [section 883g of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s883g), Navigation and Navigable Waters, and section 1126(g) of former Title 46, Shipping] and all funds held on the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 2, 1964] in the United States Merchant Marine Academy general gift fund, established by subsection (g) of section 216 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 [section 1126(g) of former Title 46], shall be transferred to the fund authorized by this Act [sections 1522 to 1524 of this title] and shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of this Act [sections 1522 to 1524 of this title].”
