---
title: "§ 4318. Claims of naturalized citizens as affected by expatriation"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4318"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4318"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 21](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s21), as added [Mar. 4, 1923, ch. 285, § 2](/us/act/1923-03-04/ch285/s2), [42 Stat. 1516](/us/stat/42/1516).)"
---
# § 4318. Claims of naturalized citizens as affected by expatriation

##### § 4318. Claims of naturalized citizens as affected by expatriation

The claim of any naturalized American citizen under the provisions of this chapter shall not be denied on the ground of any presumption of expatriation which has arisen against him, under the second sentence of section 2 of the Act entitled “An Act in reference to the expatriation of citizens and their protection abroad,” approved March 2, 1907, if he shall give satisfactory evidence to the President, or the court, as the case may be, of his uninterrupted loyalty to the United States during his absence, and that he has returned to the United States, or that he, although desiring to return, has been prevented from so returning by circumstances beyond his control.

*([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 21](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s21), as added [Mar. 4, 1923, ch. 285, § 2](/us/act/1923-03-04/ch285/s2), [42 Stat. 1516](/us/stat/42/1516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106), [40 Stat. 411](/us/stat/40/411), known as the Trading with the enemy Act, also known as the Trading with the Enemy Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4301 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4301) and Tables.

The second sentence of section 2 of the Act entitled “An Act in reference to the expatriation of citizens and their protection abroad,” approved March 2, 1907, referred to in text, is the second sentence of section 2 of [act Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2534](/us/act/1907-03-02/ch2534), [34 Stat. 1228](/us/stat/34/1228), which was classified to [section 17 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s17), Aliens and Nationality, prior to repeal by [act Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 876, title I](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch876/tI), subch. V, § 504, [54 Stat. 1172](/us/stat/54/1172). See [section 1481(a) of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1481/a).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 21 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
