---
title: "§ 653. Geographic applicability; judicial enforcement; applicability to existing standards; report to Congress on duplication and coordination of Federal laws; workmen’s compensation law or common law or statutory rights, duties, or liabilities of employers and employees unaffected"
identifier: "USC-T29-S653"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section653"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–596, § 4](/us/pl/91/596/s4), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1592](/us/stat/84/1592).)"
---
# § 653. Geographic applicability; judicial enforcement; applicability to existing standards; report to Congress on duplication and coordination of Federal laws; workmen’s compensation law or common law or statutory rights, duties, or liabilities of employers and employees unaffected

##### § 653. Geographic applicability; judicial enforcement; applicability to existing standards; report to Congress on duplication and coordination of Federal laws; workmen’s compensation law or common law or statutory rights, duties, or liabilities of employers and employees unaffected

(a) This chapter shall apply with respect to employment performed in a workplace in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Wake Island, Outer Continental Shelf lands defined in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act [[43 U.S.C. 1331](/us/usc/t43/s1331) et seq.], Johnston Island, and the Canal Zone. The Secretary of the Interior shall, by regulation, provide for judicial enforcement of this chapter by the courts established for areas in which there are no United States district courts having jurisdiction.

(b)

(1) Nothing in this chapter shall apply to working conditions of employees with respect to which other Federal agencies, and State agencies acting under [section 2021 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2021), exercise statutory authority to prescribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting occupational safety or health.

(2) The safety and health standards promulgated under the Act of June 30, 1936, commonly known as the Walsh-Healey Act,11 See References in Text note below. the Service Contract Act of 1965,1 [Public Law 91–54](/us/pl/91/54), Act of August 9, 1969, [Public Law 85–742](/us/pl/85/742), Act of August 23, 1958, and the National Foundation on Arts and Humanities Act [[20 U.S.C. 951](/us/usc/t20/s951) et seq.] are superseded on the effective date of corresponding standards, promulgated under this chapter, which are determined by the Secretary to be more effective. Standards issued under the laws listed in this paragraph and in effect on or after the effective date of this chapter shall be deemed to be occupational safety and health standards issued under this chapter, as well as under such other Acts.

(3) The Secretary shall, within three years after the effective date of this chapter, report to the Congress his recommendations for legislation to avoid unnecessary duplication and to achieve coordination between this chapter and other Federal laws.

(4) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to supersede or in any manner affect any workmen’s compensation law or to enlarge or diminish or affect in any other manner the common law or statutory rights, duties, or liabilities of employers and employees under any law with respect to injuries, diseases, or death of employees arising out of, or in the course of, employment.

*([Pub. L. 91–596, § 4](/us/pl/91/596/s4), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1592](/us/stat/84/1592).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345](/us/act/1953-08-07/ch345), [67 Stat. 462](/us/stat/67/462), which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 1331 et seq.) of chapter 29 of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1301 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1301) and Tables.

For definition of Canal Zone, referred to in subsec. (a), see [section 3602(b) of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3602/b), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

Act of June 30, 1936, commonly known as the Walsh-Healey Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [act June 30, 1936, ch. 881](/us/act/1936-06-30/ch881), [49 Stat. 2036](/us/stat/49/2036), which was classified principally to sections 35 to 45 of former Title 41, Public Contracts, and was substantially repealed and restated as chapter 65 (§ 6501 et seq.) of Title 41, Public Contracts, by [Pub. L. 111–350](/us/pl/111/350), §§ 3, 7(b), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3677](/us/stat/124/3677), 3855. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1936 Act note set out under [section 101 of Title 41](/us/usc/t41/s101) and Tables. For disposition of sections of former Title 41, see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of Title 41](/us/usc/t41/s101).

The Service Contract Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), was [Pub. L. 89–286](/us/pl/89/286), Oct. 22, 1965, [79 Stat. 1034](/us/stat/79/1034), which was classified generally to chapter 6 (§ 351 et seq.) of former Title 41, Public Contracts, and was repealed and restated as chapter 67 (§ 6701 et seq.) of Title 41, Public Contracts, by [Pub. L. 111–350](/us/pl/111/350), §§ 3, 7(b), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3677](/us/stat/124/3677), 3855. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of sections of former Title 41, see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of Title 41](/us/usc/t41/s101).

[Public Law 91–54](/us/pl/91/54), Act of August 9, 1969, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 91–54](/us/pl/91/54), Aug. 9, 1969, [83 Stat. 96](/us/stat/83/96), which amended sections 1 and 2 and added [section 107 of Pub. L. 87–581](/us/pl/87/581/s107), Aug. 13, 1962, [76 Stat. 357](/us/stat/76/357). Sections 1 and 2 of [Pub. L. 87–581](/us/pl/87/581) were set out as notes under section 327, and [section 107 of Pub. L. 87–581](/us/pl/87/581/s107) was classified to section 333, of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works. Sections 1 and 2 of [Pub. L. 87–581](/us/pl/87/581) were repealed, and [section 107 of Pub. L. 87–581](/us/pl/87/581/s107) was repealed and reenacted as sections 3704 and 3705 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304.

[Public Law 85–742](/us/pl/85/742), Act of August 23, 1958, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 85–742](/us/pl/85/742), Aug. 23, 1958, [72 Stat. 835](/us/stat/72/835), which amended [section 941 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s941), Navigation and Navigable Waters, and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 941 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s941). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 89–209](/us/pl/89/209), Sept. 29, 1965, [79 Stat. 845](/us/stat/79/845), known as the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 951 et seq.) of chapter 26 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 951 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s951) and Tables.

The effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), (3), is the effective date of [Pub. L. 91–596](/us/pl/91/596), which is 120 days after Dec. 29, 1970, see [section 34 of Pub. L. 91–596](/us/pl/91/596/s34), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 651 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s651).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### EPA Administrator Not Exercising “Statutory Authority” Under This Section in Exercising Any Authority Under Toxic Substances Control Act

In exercising any authority under the Toxic Substances Control Act ([15 U.S.C. 2601](/us/usc/t15/s2601) et seq.) in connection with amendment made by [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 101–637](/us/pl/101/637/s15/a), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency not, for purposes of subsection (b)(1) of this section, to be considered to be exercising statutory authority to prescribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting occupational safety and health, see [section 15(b) of Pub. L. 101–637](/us/pl/101/637/s15/b), set out as a note under [section 2646 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s2646), Commerce and Trade.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding [section 1681 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1681), Territories and Insular Possessions.
