---
title: "§ 2323. Technical assistance to private entities"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–640, title III, § 318](/us/pl/101/640/tIII/s318), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4641](/us/stat/104/4641).)"
---
# § 2323. Technical assistance to private entities

##### § 2323. Technical assistance to private entities

(a) Use of Corps research and development labs The Secretary is authorized to use Corps of Engineers research and development laboratories to provide research and development assistance to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships, consortia, public and private foundations, universities, and nonprofit organizations operating within the United States, territories or possessions of the United States, and the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands—

(1) if the entity furnishes in advance of fiscal obligation by the United States such funds as are necessary to cover any and all costs of such research and development assistance;

(2) if the Secretary determines that the research and development assistance to be provided is within the mission of the Corps of Engineers and is in the public interest;

(3) if the entity has certified to the Secretary that provision of such research and development assistance is not otherwise reasonably and expeditiously obtainable from the private sector; and

(4) if the entity has agreed to hold and save the United States free from any damages due to any such research and development assistance.

(b) Contract The Secretary may provide research and development assistance under subsection (a), or any part thereof, by contract.

(c) Omitted

*([Pub. L. 101–640, title III, § 318](/us/pl/101/640/tIII/s318), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4641](/us/stat/104/4641).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 318 of Pub. L. 101–640](/us/pl/101/640/s318). Subsec. (c) of [section 318 of Pub. L. 101–640](/us/pl/101/640/s318) amended [section 2314a of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2314a).

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1990, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 101–640](/us/pl/101/640/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
