---
title: "§ 3233. Misuse of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence name, initials, or seal"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3233"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3233"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1103, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, § 413(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIV/s413/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2726](/us/stat/124/2726).)"
---
# § 3233. Misuse of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence name, initials, or seal

##### § 3233. Misuse of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence name, initials, or seal

(a) Prohibited acts No person may, except with the written permission of the Director of National Intelligence, or a designee of the Director, knowingly use the words “Office of the Director of National Intelligence”, the initials “ODNI”, the seal of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, or any colorable imitation of such words, initials, or seal in connection with any merchandise, impersonation, solicitation, or commercial activity in a manner reasonably calculated to convey the impression that such use is approved, endorsed, or authorized by the Director of National Intelligence.

(b) Injunction Whenever it appears to the Attorney General that any person is engaged or is about to engage in an act or practice which constitutes or will constitute conduct prohibited by subsection (a), the Attorney General may initiate a civil proceeding in a district court of the United States to enjoin such act or practice. Such court shall proceed as soon as practicable to the hearing and determination of such action and may, at any time before final determination, enter such restraining orders or prohibitions, or take such other action as is warranted, to prevent injury to the United States or to any person or class of persons for whose protection the action is brought.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title XI, § 1103, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title IV, § 413(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIV/s413/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2726](/us/stat/124/2726).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 442b of this title](/us/usc/t50/s442b) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
