---
title: "§ 1001. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–581, § 2](/us/pl/91/581/s2), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1566](/us/stat/84/1566); [Pub. L. 100–443, § 2(a)](/us/pl/100/443/s2/a), Sept. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 1766](/us/stat/102/1766); [Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 236(1)](/us/pl/109/58/tII/s236/1), (2), (5), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 671](/us/stat/119/671).)"
---
# § 1001. Definitions

##### § 1001. Definitions

(a) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior;

(b) “geothermal lease” means a lease issued under authority of this chapter;

(c) “geothermal resources” means (i) all products of geothermal processes, embracing indigenous steam, hot water and hot brines; (ii) steam and other gases, hot water and hot brines resulting from water, gas, or other fluids artificially introduced into geothermal formations; (iii) heat or other associated energy found in geothermal formations; and (iv) any byproduct derived from them;

(d) “byproduct” means any mineral or minerals (exclusive of oil, hydrocarbon gas, and helium) which are found in solution or in association with geothermal steam and which have a value of less than 75 per centum of the value of the geothermal steam or are not, because of quantity, quality, or technical difficulties in extraction and production, of sufficient value to warrant extraction and production by themselves;

(e) “known geothermal resources area” means an area in which the geology, nearby discoveries, competitive interests, or other indicia would, in the opinion of the Secretary, engender a belief in men who are experienced in the subject matter that the prospects for extraction of geothermal steam or associated geothermal resources are good enough to warrant expenditures of money for that purpose.

(f) “Significant 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. thermal features within units of the National Park System” shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

(1) Thermal features within units of the National Park System listed in Section ^1 1026(a)(1) of this title and designated as significant in the Federal Register notice of August 3, 1987 (Vol. 52, No. 148 Fed. Reg. 28790).

(2) Crater Lake National Park.

(3) Thermal features within Big Bend National Park and Lake Mead National Recreation Area proposed as significant in the Federal Register notice of February 13, 1987 (Vol. 52, No. 30 Fed. Reg. 4700).

(4) Thermal features within units of the National Park System added to the significant thermal features list pursuant to [section 1026(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1026/a/2).

(g) “direct use” means utilization of geothermal resources for commercial, residential, agricultural, public facilities, or other energy needs other than the commercial production of electricity; and 22 So in original. Probably should end with a period instead of “; and”.

*([Pub. L. 91–581, § 2](/us/pl/91/581/s2), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1566](/us/stat/84/1566); [Pub. L. 100–443, § 2(a)](/us/pl/100/443/s2/a), Sept. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 1766](/us/stat/102/1766); [Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 236(1)](/us/pl/109/58/tII/s236/1), (2), (5), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 671](/us/stat/119/671).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2005—[Pub. L. 109–58, § 236(5)](/us/pl/109/58/s236/5), inserted section catchline.

Par. (c). [Pub. L. 109–58, § 236(1)](/us/pl/109/58/s236/1), substituted “geothermal resources” for “geothermal steam and associated geothermal resources”.

Par. (g). [Pub. L. 109–58, § 236(2)](/us/pl/109/58/s236/2), added par. (g).

1988—Par. (f). [Pub. L. 100–443](/us/pl/100/443) added par. (f).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2005 Amendment

[Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 221](/us/pl/109/58/tII/s221), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 660](/us/stat/119/660), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle B (§§ 221–237) of title II of [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58), enacting part B (§ 15871 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 149 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, amending this section and sections 530 and 1002 to 1027 of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under [section 1004 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1004), and amending provisions set out as a note under this section] may be cited as the ‘John Rishel Geothermal Steam Act Amendments of 2005’.”

#### Short Title of 1988 Amendment

[Pub. L. 100–443, § 1](/us/pl/100/443/s1), Sept. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 1766](/us/stat/102/1766), provided that: “This Act [enacting sections 1026 and 1027 of this title, amending this section and sections 191, 226–3, 1005, 1017, and 1019 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 1005 and 1026 of this title] may be known as the ‘Geothermal Steam Act Amendments of 1988’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 91–581, § 1](/us/pl/91/581/s1), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1566](/us/stat/84/1566), as amended by [Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 236(4)](/us/pl/109/58/tII/s236/4), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 671](/us/stat/119/671), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter and amending [section 530 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s530)] may be cited as the ‘Geothermal Steam Act of 1970’.”
