---
title: "§ 6252. Stockpile stewardship recruitment and training program"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6252"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6252"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2)(B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1418](/us/stat/139/1418), 1462.)"
---
# § 6252. Stockpile stewardship recruitment and training program

##### § 6252. Stockpile stewardship recruitment and training program

(a) Conduct of Program.—

(1) As part of the stockpile stewardship program established pursuant to section 6111, the Secretary of Energy shall conduct a stockpile stewardship recruitment and training program at the national security laboratories.

(2) The recruitment and training program shall be conducted in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Nuclear Weapons Council established by section 179 and the directors of the laboratories referred to in paragraph (1).

(b) Support of Dual-use Programs.— As part of the recruitment and training program, the directors of the national security laboratories may employ undergraduate students, graduate students, and postdoctoral fellows to carry out research sponsored by such laboratories for military or nonmilitary dual-use programs related to nuclear weapons stockpile stewardship.

(c) Establishment of Retiree Corps.— As part of the training and recruitment program, the Secretary, in coordination with the directors of the national security laboratories, shall establish for the laboratories a retiree corps of retired scientists who have expertise in research and development of nuclear weapons. The directors may employ the retired scientists on a part-time basis to provide appropriate assistance on nuclear weapons issues, to contribute relevant information to be archived, and to help to provide training to other scientists.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), (d)(2)(B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1418](/us/stat/139/1418), 1462.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6252 was renumbered [section 8302 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8302).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2722 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2722), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(d)(2)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/d/2/B), realigned margins.
