---
title: "§ 20137. Event recorders"
identifier: "USC-T49-S20137"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section20137"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 875](/us/stat/108/875).)"
---
# § 20137. Event recorders

##### § 20137. Event recorders

(a) Definition.— In this section, “event recorder” means a device that—

(1) records train speed, hot box detection, throttle position, brake application, brake operations, and any other function the Secretary of Transportation considers necessary to record to assist in monitoring the safety of train operation, such as time and signal indication; and

(2) is designed to resist tampering.

(b) Regulations and Orders.— Not later than December 22, 1989, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations and issue orders that may be necessary to enhance safety by requiring that a train be equipped with an event recorder not later than one year after the regulations are prescribed and the orders are issued. However, if the Secretary finds it is impracticable to equip trains within that one-year period, the Secretary may extend the period to a date that is not later than 18 months after the regulations are prescribed and the orders are issued.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 875](/us/stat/108/875).)*

In subsection (b), the words “Not later than December 22, 1989” are substituted for “within 18 months after June 22, 1988” for clarity. The words “may extend the period to a date that is not later than 18 months after the regulations are prescribed and the orders are issued” are substituted for “may extend the deadline for compliance with such requirement, but in no event shall such deadline be extended past 18 months after such rules, regulations, orders, and standards are issued” to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20137 | 45:431(m). | Oct. 16, 1970, Pub. L. 91–458, 84 Stat. 971, § 202(m); added June 22, 1988, Pub. L. 100–342, § 10, 102 Stat. 629. |
