---
title: "§ 3022. Joint Intelligence Community Council"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3022"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3022"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 101A, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1031](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1031), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3677](/us/stat/118/3677); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXIII, § 6311(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXIII/s6311/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2191](/us/stat/133/2191).)"
---
# § 3022. Joint Intelligence Community Council

##### § 3022. Joint Intelligence Community Council

(a) Joint Intelligence Community Council There is a Joint Intelligence Community Council.

(b) Membership The Joint Intelligence Community Council shall consist of the following:

(1) The Director of National Intelligence, who shall chair the Council.

(2) The Secretary of State.

(3) The Secretary of the Treasury.

(4) The Secretary of Defense.

(5) The Attorney General.

(6) The Secretary of Energy.

(7) The Secretary of Homeland Security.

(8) Such other officers of the United States Government as the President may designate from time to time.

(c) Functions The Joint Intelligence Community Council shall assist the Director of National Intelligence in developing and implementing a joint, unified national intelligence effort to protect national security by—

(1) advising the Director on establishing requirements, developing budgets, financial management, and monitoring and evaluating the performance of the intelligence community, and on such other matters as the Director may request; and

(2) ensuring the timely execution of programs, policies, and directives established or developed by the Director.

(d) Meetings The Director of National Intelligence shall convene meetings of the Joint Intelligence Community Council as the Director considers appropriate.

(e) Advice and opinions of members other than Chairman

(1) A member of the Joint Intelligence Community Council (other than the Chairman) may submit to the Chairman advice or an opinion in disagreement with, or advice or an opinion in addition to, the advice presented by the Director of National Intelligence to the President or the National Security Council, in the role of the Chairman as Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Community Council. If a member submits such advice or opinion, the Chairman shall present the advice or opinion of such member at the same time the Chairman presents the advice of the Chairman to the President or the National Security Council, as the case may be.

(2) The Chairman shall establish procedures to ensure that the presentation of the advice of the Chairman to the President or the National Security Council is not unduly delayed by reason of the submission of the individual advice or opinion of another member of the Council.

(f) Recommendations to Congress Any member of the Joint Intelligence Community Council may make such recommendations to Congress relating to the intelligence community as such member considers appropriate.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 101A, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1031](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1031), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3677](/us/stat/118/3677); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXIII, § 6311(a)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXIII/s6311/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2191](/us/stat/133/2191).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 402–1 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s402–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) struck out “regular” before “meetings” and inserted “as the Director considers appropriate” after “Council”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For Determination by President that section take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Section effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
