---
title: "§ 5161. Audits and investigations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5161"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5161"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–288, title III, § 318](/us/pl/93/288/tIII/s318), as added [Pub. L. 100–707, title I, § 105(m)(1)](/us/pl/100/707/tI/s105/m/1), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4695](/us/stat/102/4695).)"
---
# § 5161. Audits and investigations

##### § 5161. Audits and investigations

(a) In general Subject to the provisions of chapter 75 of title 31, relating to requirements for single audits, the President shall conduct audits and investigations as necessary to assure compliance with this chapter, and in connection therewith may question such persons as may be necessary to carry out such audits and investigations.

(b) Access to records For purposes of audits and investigations under this section, the President and Comptroller General may inspect any books, documents, papers, and records of any person relating to any activity undertaken or funded under this chapter.

(c) State and local audits The President may require audits by State and local governments in connection with assistance under this chapter when necessary to assure compliance with this chapter or related regulations.

*([Pub. L. 93–288, title III, § 318](/us/pl/93/288/tIII/s318), as added [Pub. L. 100–707, title I, § 105(m)(1)](/us/pl/100/707/tI/s105/m/1), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4695](/us/stat/102/4695).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 318 of Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288/s318) was renumbered section 315 by [Pub. L. 100–707](/us/pl/100/707) and is classified to [section 5158 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5158).
