---
title: "§ 5531. Program to increase employment opportunities in House of Representatives for individuals with disabilities"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5531"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5531"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 106](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s106), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 354](/us/stat/117/354).)"
---
# § 5531. Program to increase employment opportunities in House of Representatives for individuals with disabilities

##### § 5531. Program to increase employment opportunities in House of Representatives for individuals with disabilities

(a) In general In order to promote an increase in opportunities for individuals with disabilities to provide services to the House of Representatives, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives is authorized to—

(1) enter into 1 or more contracts with nongovernmental entities to provide for the performance of services for offices of the House of Representatives by individuals with disabilities who are employees of, or under contract with, such entities; and

(2) provide reasonable accommodations, including assistive technology devices and assistive technology services, to enable such individuals to perform such services under such contracts.

(b) Elements of program The Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, in entering into any contract under subsection (a), shall seek to ensure that—

(1) traditional and nontraditional outreach efforts are used to attract individuals with disabilities for educational benefit and employment opportunities in the House;

(2) the non-governmental entity provides adequate education and training for individuals with disabilities to enhance such employment opportunities; and

(3) efforts are made to educate employing offices in the House about opportunities to employ individuals with disabilities.

(c) Funding There are authorized to be appropriated from the applicable accounts of the House of Representatives $500,000 to carry out this section for each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2007.

*([Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 106](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s106), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 354](/us/stat/117/354).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 130j of this title](/us/usc/t2/s130j) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003, which is div. H of the Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003.
