---
title: "§ 1012. Regulation by State law; Federal law relating specifically to insurance; applicability of certain Federal laws after June 30, 1948"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1012"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1012"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Mar. 9, 1945, ch. 20, § 2](/us/act/1945-03-09/ch20/s2), [59 Stat. 34](/us/stat/59/34); [July 25, 1947, ch. 326](/us/act/1947-07-25/ch326), [61 Stat. 448](/us/stat/61/448).)"
---
# § 1012. Regulation by State law; Federal law relating specifically to insurance; applicability of certain Federal laws after June 30, 1948

##### § 1012. Regulation by State law; Federal law relating specifically to insurance; applicability of certain Federal laws after June 30, 1948

(a) State regulation The business of insurance, and every person engaged therein, shall be subject to the laws of the several States which relate to the regulation or taxation of such business.

(b) Federal regulation No Act of Congress shall be construed to invalidate, impair, or supersede any law enacted by any State for the purpose of regulating the business of insurance, or which imposes a fee or tax upon such business, unless such Act specifically relates to the business of insurance: *Provided*, That after June 30, 1948, the Act of July 2, 1890, as amended, known as the Sherman Act, and the Act of October 15, 1914, as amended, known as the Clayton Act, and the Act of September 26, 1914, known as the Federal Trade Commission Act, as amended [[15 U.S.C. 41](/us/usc/t15/s41) et seq.], shall be applicable to the business of insurance to the extent that such business is not regulated by State Law.

*([Mar. 9, 1945, ch. 20, § 2](/us/act/1945-03-09/ch20/s2), [59 Stat. 34](/us/stat/59/34); [July 25, 1947, ch. 326](/us/act/1947-07-25/ch326), [61 Stat. 448](/us/stat/61/448).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of July 2, 1890, as amended, known as the Sherman Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is classified to sections 1 to 7 of this title.

Act of October 15, 1914, as amended, known as the Clayton Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act Oct. 15, 1914, ch. 323](/us/act/1914-10-15/ch323), [38 Stat. 730](/us/stat/38/730), which is classified generally to sections 12, 13, 14 to 19, 21, and 22 to 27 of this title and to sections 52 and 53 of Title 29, Labor. For further details and complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under [section 12 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s12) and Tables.

Act of September 26, 1914, known as the Federal Trade Commission Act, as amended, referred to in subsec. (b), is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 58 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s58) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1947—Act July 25, 1947, substituted “June 30, 1948” for “January 1, 1948”.
