---
title: "§ 2106. Reports to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 98–497, title I, § 102(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/497/tI/s102/a/2), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2282](/us/stat/98/2282).)"
---
# § 2106. Reports to Congress

##### § 2106. Reports to Congress

(1) program administration and expenditures of funds, both appropriated and nonappropriated, by the Administration, the Commission, and the Trust Fund Board;

(2) research projects and publications undertaken by Commission grantees, and by Trust Fund grantees, including detailed information concerning the receipt and use of all appropriated and nonappropriated funds;

(3) by account, the moneys, securities, and other personal property received and held by the National Archives Trust Fund Board, and of its operations, including a listing of the purposes for which funds are transferred to the National Archives and Records Administration for expenditure to other Federal agencies; and

(4) the matters specified in [section 2904(c)(8) of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2904/c/8).

*(Added [Pub. L. 98–497, title I, § 102(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/497/tI/s102/a/2), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2282](/us/stat/98/2282).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2106 was renumbered [section 2110 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2110).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Apr. 1, 1985, see [section 301 of Pub. L. 98–497](/us/pl/98/497/s301), set out as an Effective Date of 1984 Amendment note under [section 2102 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2102).

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in this section relating to the requirement that the Archivist submit a report to Congress in January of each year, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and the last item on page 179 of House Document No. 103–7.
