---
title: "§ 2052. Death in service"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2052"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2052"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 232](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s232), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3223](/us/stat/106/3223); amended [Pub. L. 103–178, title II, § 202(a)(9)](/us/pl/103/178/tII/s202/a/9), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/107/2026); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXII, § 6202(a)(2)(A)(i)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXII/s6202/a/2/A/i), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2185](/us/stat/133/2185).)"
---
# § 2052. Death in service

##### § 2052. Death in service

(a) Return of contributions when no annuity payable If a participant dies and no claim for an annuity is payable under this subchapter, the participant’s lump-sum credit and any voluntary contributions made under [section 2121 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2121), with interest, shall be paid in the order of precedence shown in [section 2071(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2071/c).

(b) Survivor annuity for surviving spouse or former spouse

(1) In general If a participant dies before separation or retirement from the Agency and is survived by a spouse or by a former spouse qualifying for a survivor annuity under [section 2032(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2032/b), such surviving spouse shall be entitled to an annuity equal to 55 percent of the annuity computed in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection and [section 2031(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/a), and any such surviving former spouse shall be entitled to an annuity computed in accordance with [section 2032(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2032/b) and paragraph (2) of this subsection as if the participant died after being entitled to an annuity under this subchapter. The annuity of such surviving spouse or former spouse shall commence on the day after the participant dies and shall terminate on the last day of the month before the death or remarriage before attaining age 55 of the surviving spouse or former spouse (subject to the payment and restoration provisions of sections 2031(b)(3)(C), 2031(i), and 2032(b)(3) of this title).

(2) Computation The annuity payable under paragraph (1) shall be computed in accordance with [section 2031(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/a), except that the computation of the annuity of the participant under such section shall be at least the smaller of (A) 40 percent of the participant’s high-3 average pay, or (B) the sum obtained under such section after increasing the participant’s length of service by the difference between the participant’s age at the time of death and age 60.

(3) Limitation Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the participant had a former spouse qualifying for an annuity under [section 2032(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2032/b), the annuity of a surviving spouse under this section shall be subject to the limitation of [section 2031(b)(3)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/b/3/B), and the annuity of a former spouse under this section shall be subject to the limitation of [section 2032(b)(4)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2032/b/4/B).

(4) Precedence of section 2034 survivor annuity over death-in-service annuity If a former spouse who is eligible for a death-in-service annuity under this section is or becomes eligible for an annuity under [section 2034 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2034), the annuity provided under this section shall not be payable and shall be superseded by the annuity under [section 2034 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2034).

(c) Annuities for surviving children

(1) Participants dying before April 1, 1992 In the case of a participant who before April 1, 1992, died before separation or retirement from the Agency and who was survived by a child or children—

(A) if the participant was survived by a spouse, there shall be paid from the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving child an annuity determined under [section 2031(d)(3)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/d/3/A); and

(B) if the participant was not survived by a spouse, there shall be paid from the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving child an annuity determined under [section 2031(d)(3)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/d/3/B).

(2) Participants dying on or after April 1, 1992 In the case of a participant who on or after April 1, 1992, dies before separation or retirement from the Agency and who is survived by a child or children—

(A) if the participant is survived by a spouse or former spouse who is the natural or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant, there shall be paid from the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving child an annuity determined under [section 2031(d)(3)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/d/3/A); and

(B) if the participant is not survived by a spouse or former spouse who is the natural or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant, there shall be paid to or on behalf of each such surviving child an annuity determined under [section 2031(d)(3)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/d/3/B).

(3) “Former spouse” defined For purposes of this subsection, the term “former spouse” includes any former wife or husband of a participant, regardless of the length of marriage or the amount of creditable service completed by the participant.

*([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 232](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s232), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3223](/us/stat/106/3223); amended [Pub. L. 103–178, title II, § 202(a)(9)](/us/pl/103/178/tII/s202/a/9), Dec. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/107/2026); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXII, § 6202(a)(2)(A)(i)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXII/s6202/a/2/A/i), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2185](/us/stat/133/2185).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 232 of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s232), title II, Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1048](/us/stat/78/1048); [Pub. L. 91–185, § 4](/us/pl/91/185/s4), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 848](/us/stat/83/848); [Pub. L. 94–522, title II, § 208](/us/pl/94/522/tII/s208), Oct. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 2471](/us/stat/90/2471); [Pub. L. 99–335, title V, § 501(2)](/us/pl/99/335/tV/s501/2), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 622](/us/stat/100/622); [Pub. L. 100–178, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/100/178/tIV/s402/a), Dec. 2, 1987, [101 Stat. 1013](/us/stat/101/1013); [Pub. L. 101–193, title III, § 303](/us/pl/101/193/tIII/s303), Nov. 30, 1989, [103 Stat. 1703](/us/stat/103/1703); [Pub. L. 102–88, title III, § 305(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/88/tIII/s305/a/3), Aug. 14, 1991, [105 Stat. 432](/us/stat/105/432); [Pub. L. 102–183, title III, § 302(b)](/us/pl/102/183/tIII/s302/b), (c), Dec. 4, 1991, [105 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/105/1262), 1263; [Pub. L. 102–496, title III, § 304(b)](/us/pl/102/496/tIII/s304/b), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3183](/us/stat/106/3183), related to death in service and was set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403) prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643) by [section 802 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s802).

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) substituted “2031(i),” for “2031(h),”.

1993—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 103–178](/us/pl/103/178) substituted “eligible for an annuity under section 2034” for “eligible for an annuity under section 2032”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1993 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–178](/us/pl/103/178) effective Feb. 1, 1993, see [section 202(b) of Pub. L. 103–178](/us/pl/103/178/s202/b), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).
