---
title: "§ 1153. Rules, regulations, and fees"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1153"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1153"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Sept. 9, 1950, ch. 936, § 3](/us/act/1950-09-09/ch936/s3), [64 Stat. 823](/us/stat/64/823); [Pub. L. 91–412, § 3(e)](/us/pl/91/412/s3/e), Sept. 25, 1970, [84 Stat. 864](/us/stat/84/864).)"
---
# § 1153. Rules, regulations, and fees

##### § 1153. Rules, regulations, and fees

The Secretary is authorized to make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and regulations as he may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, and to establish, from time to time, a schedule or schedules of reasonable fees or charges for services performed or for documents or other publications furnished under this chapter.

It is the policy of this chapter, to the fullest extent feasible and consistent with the objectives of this chapter, that each of the services and functions provided herein shall be self-sustaining or self-liquidating and that the general public shall not bear the cost of publications and other services which are for the special use and benefit of private groups and individuals; but nothing herein shall be construed to require the levying of fees or charges for services performed or publications furnished to any agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government, or for publications which are distributed pursuant to reciprocal arrangements for the exchange of information or which are otherwise issued primarily for the general benefit of the public.

*([Sept. 9, 1950, ch. 936, § 3](/us/act/1950-09-09/ch936/s3), [64 Stat. 823](/us/stat/64/823); [Pub. L. 91–412, § 3(e)](/us/pl/91/412/s3/e), Sept. 25, 1970, [84 Stat. 864](/us/stat/84/864).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1970—[Pub. L. 91–412](/us/pl/91/412) struck out provisos of first par. for deposit of moneys received for services and publications after Sept. 9, 1950, in a special account in the Treasury, to be available, subject to appropriation authorizations, for reimbursement of appropriations and for refunds to organizations and individuals entitled thereto, and making appropriations reimbursed by the special account available for original purposes. See [section 1526 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1526).
