---
title: "§ 7104e. Preventing future trafficking in the United States through receipt of complaints abroad"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7104e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7104e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–425, title I, § 102](/us/pl/115/425/tI/s102), Jan. 8, 2019, [132 Stat. 5474](/us/stat/132/5474).)"
---
# § 7104e. Preventing future trafficking in the United States through receipt of complaints abroad

##### § 7104e. Preventing future trafficking in the United States through receipt of complaints abroad

(a) In general The Secretary of State shall ensure that each diplomatic or consular post or other mission designates an employee to be responsible for receiving information from—

(1) any person who was a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons (as such term is defined in section 7102(14) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title) while present in the United States; or

(2) any person who has information regarding a victim described in paragraph (1).

(b) Provision of information Any information received pursuant to subsection (a) shall be transmitted to the Department of Justice, the Department of Labor, the Department of Homeland Security, and to any other relevant Federal agency for appropriate response. The Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the head of any other such relevant Federal agency shall establish a process to address any actions to be taken in response to such information.

(c) Assistance from foreign governments The employee designated for receiving information pursuant to subsection (a) should coordinate with foreign governments or civil society organizations in the countries of origin of victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, with the permission of and without compromising the safety of such victims, to ensure that such victims receive any additional support available.

*([Pub. L. 115–425, title I, § 102](/us/pl/115/425/tI/s102), Jan. 8, 2019, [132 Stat. 5474](/us/stat/132/5474).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 7102(14) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7102/14), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), was redesignated [section 7102(16) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7102/16) by [Pub. L. 115–427, § 2(1)](/us/pl/115/427/s2/1), Jan. 9, 2019, [132 Stat. 5503](/us/stat/132/5503).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2018, and not as part of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 which comprises this chapter.
