---
title: "§ 703. Uniform of friendly nation"
identifier: "USC-T18-S703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 732](/us/stat/62/732); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(E)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/E), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2146](/us/stat/108/2146).)"
---
# § 703. Uniform of friendly nation

##### § 703. Uniform of friendly nation

Whoever, within the jurisdiction of the United States, with intent to deceive or mislead, wears any naval, military, police, or other official uniform, decoration, or regalia of any foreign state, nation, or government with which the United States is at peace, or anything so nearly resembling the same as to be calculated to deceive, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 732](/us/stat/62/732); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(E)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/E), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2146](/us/stat/108/2146).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on [section 246 of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s246), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Foreign Relations and Intercourse ([July 8, 1918, ch. 138](/us/act/1918-07-08/ch138), [40 Stat. 821](/us/stat/40/821)).

Words “upon conviction” were deleted as surplusage, since punishment cannot be imposed until a conviction is secured.

Reference to territories or places subject to jurisdiction of the United States was omitted in view of [section 5 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s5) defining the term “United States.”

Fine of “$250” was substituted for “$300” as being more consonant with the penalties provided for similar offenses in this chapter.

Words “unless such wearing thereof be authorized by such state, nation, or government” were deleted as unnecessary and undesirable since it is unthinkable that a friendly power would authorize such deceit.

Minor changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $250”.
