---
title: "§ 7621. Report"
identifier: "USC-T16-S7621"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section7621"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–231, title II, § 201](/us/pl/114/231/tII/s201), Oct. 7, 2016, [130 Stat. 952](/us/stat/130/952); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5943(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5943/c/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3470](/us/stat/136/3470).)"
---
# § 7621. Report

##### § 7621. Report

(a) Report Not later than one year after October 7, 2016, and biennially thereafter by June 1 of each year in which a report is required, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce, shall submit to Congress a report that lists each country determined by the Secretary of State to be a focus country within the meaning of this chapter.

(b) Special designation In each report required under subsection (a), the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce, shall also list each country determined by the Secretary of State to be a country of concern within the meaning of this chapter 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.

(c) Procedure for removing countries from list Concurrently with the first report required under this section and submitted after December 23, 2022, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce, shall publish in the Federal Register a procedure for removing from the list described in subsection (b) any country that no longer meets the definition of country of concern under [section 7601(4) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s7601/4).

(d) Sunset This section shall cease to have force or effect on September 30, 2028.

*([Pub. L. 114–231, title II, § 201](/us/pl/114/231/tII/s201), Oct. 7, 2016, [130 Stat. 952](/us/stat/130/952); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, § 5943(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLIX/s5943/c/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3470](/us/stat/136/3470).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section on Sept. 30, 2028, see subsec. (d) of this section.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–231](/us/pl/114/231), Oct. 7, 2016, [130 Stat. 949](/us/stat/130/949), known as the Eliminate, Neutralize, and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2016, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note under [section 7601 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s7601) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 5943(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/117/263/s5943/c/1/A), substituted “biennially thereafter by June 1 of each year in which a report is required” for “annually thereafter”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 5943(c)(1)(B)](/us/pl/117/263/s5943/c/1/B), substituted “shall also list each country determined by the Secretary of State to be a country of concern within the meaning of this chapter” for “shall identify each country of concern listed in the report the government of which has actively engaged in or knowingly profited from the trafficking of endangered or threatened species.”

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 5943(c)(1)(C)](/us/pl/117/263/s5943/c/1/C), added subsecs. (c) and (d) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (c) read as follows: “This section shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after October 7, 2016.”
