---
title: "§ 605. Examination of carcasses brought into slaughtering or packing establishments, and of meat food products issued from and returned thereto; conditions for entry"
identifier: "USC-T21-S605"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section605"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), title I, § 5, formerly 3rd par., [34 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/34/1261); renumbered § 5 and amended [Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201), §§ 1, 5, 12(a), Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 584](/us/stat/81/584), 588, 592; [Pub. L. 109–97, title VII, § 798[(a)]](/us/pl/109/97/tVII/s798)(1), Nov. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 2166](/us/stat/119/2166).)"
---
# § 605. Examination of carcasses brought into slaughtering or packing establishments, and of meat food products issued from and returned thereto; conditions for entry

##### § 605. Examination of carcasses brought into slaughtering or packing establishments, and of meat food products issued from and returned thereto; conditions for entry

The foregoing provisions shall apply to all carcasses or parts of carcasses of amenable species or the meat or meat products thereof which may be brought into any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establishment, and such examination and inspection shall be had before the said carcasses or parts thereof shall be allowed to enter into any department wherein the same are to be treated and prepared for meat food products; and the foregoing provisions shall also apply to all such products, which, after having been issued from any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establishment, shall be returned to the same or to any similar establishment where such inspection is maintained. The Secretary may limit the entry of carcasses, parts of carcasses, meat and meat food products, and other materials into any establishment at which inspection under this subchapter is maintained, under such conditions as he may prescribe to assure that allowing the entry of such articles into such inspected establishments will be consistent with the purposes of this chapter.

*([Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), title I, § 5, formerly 3rd par., [34 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/34/1261); renumbered § 5 and amended [Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201), §§ 1, 5, 12(a), Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 584](/us/stat/81/584), 588, 592; [Pub. L. 109–97, title VII, § 798[(a)]](/us/pl/109/97/tVII/s798)(1), Nov. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 2166](/us/stat/119/2166).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 73 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s73).

#### Amendments

2005—[Pub. L. 109–97](/us/pl/109/97) substituted “amenable species” for “cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules, and other equines”.

1967—[Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201), §§ 5, 12(a), limited entry of articles into establishments under such prescribed conditions as would be consistent with the purpose of this chapter and included horses, mules, and other equines in the list of animals, respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2005 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–97](/us/pl/109/97) effective the day after 120 days after Nov. 10, 2005, see [section 798(b) of Pub. L. 109–97](/us/pl/109/97/s798/b), set out as a note under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s601).

#### Effective Date of 1967 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201) effective Dec. 15, 1967, except that with respect to equines (other than horses) and their carcasses and parts thereof, meat, and meat food products thereof, amendment effective upon expiration of sixty days after Dec. 15, 1967, see [section 20(b) of Pub. L. 90–201](/us/pl/90/201/s20/b), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s601).
