---
title: "§ 3062. Office of Engagement"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3062"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3062"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 122, as added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7503(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7503/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1082](/us/stat/137/1082).)"
---
# § 3062. Office of Engagement

##### § 3062. Office of Engagement

(a) Establishment There is within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence an Office of Engagement (in this section referred to as the “Office”).

(b) Head; staff

(1) Head The Director of National Intelligence shall appoint as head of the Office an individual with requisite experience in matters relating to the duties of the Office, as determined by the Director of National Intelligence. Such head of the Office shall report directly to the Director of National Intelligence.

(2) Staff To assist the head of the Office in fulfilling the duties of the Office, the head shall employ full-time equivalent staff in such number, and with such requisite expertise in matters relating to such duties, as may be determined by the head.

(c) Duties The duties of the Office shall be as follows:

(1) To ensure coordination across the elements of the intelligence community efforts regarding outreach, relationship development, and associated knowledge and relationship management, with covered entities, consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods.

(2) To assist in sharing best practices regarding such efforts among the elements of the intelligence community.

(3) To establish and implement metrics to assess the effectiveness of such efforts.

(d) Covered entity defined In this section, the term “covered entity” means an entity that is not an entity of the United States Government, including private sector companies, institutions of higher education, trade associations, think tanks, laboratories, international organizations, and foreign partners and allies.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 122, as added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7503(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7503/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1082](/us/stat/137/1082).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7503(e)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7503/e), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1083](/us/stat/137/1083), provided that: “Nothing in this section [enacting this section and provisions set out as notes under this section], or an amendment made by this section, shall be construed as restricting or preempting engagement or outreach activities of elements of the intelligence community.”

[For definition of “intelligence community” as used in [section 7503(e) of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s7503/e), set out above, see [section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s7002), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).]

#### Deadline

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7503(b)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7503/b), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1083](/us/stat/137/1083), provided that: “To the extent and in such amounts as specifically provided in advance in appropriations Acts for the purposes detailed in section 122 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3062](/us/usc/t50/s3062)], as added by subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence shall establish the Office of Engagement by not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 2023].”

#### Transfer

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7503(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7503/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1083](/us/stat/137/1083), provided that: “The Director shall transfer to the Office of Engagement all functions within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence that, on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 2023], performed duties set forth in section 122 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3062](/us/usc/t50/s3062)], as added by subsection (a).”

#### Definitions

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7503(f)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7503/f), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1083](/us/stat/137/1083), provided that: “In this section [enacting this section and provisions set out as notes under this section], the term ‘Office of Engagement’ means the Office of Engagement established under section 122 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3062](/us/usc/t50/s3062)], as added by subsection (a).”
