---
title: "§ 30101. Purpose and policy"
identifier: "USC-T49-S30101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section30101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 941](/us/stat/108/941).)"
---
# § 30101. Purpose and policy

##### § 30101. Purpose and policy

(1) to prescribe motor vehicle safety standards for motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment in interstate commerce; and

(2) to carry out needed safety research and development.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 941](/us/stat/108/941).)*

The words “Congress hereby declares that”, “to persons”, and “Congress determines that” are omitted as surplus. The words “motor vehicle” before “equipment” are added for consistency. The words “and to expand the national driver register” are omitted because section 401 of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 ([Public Law 89–563](/us/pl/89/563), [80 Stat. 730](/us/stat/80/730)), the only section in this law related to the national driver register, was superseded by the National Driver Register Act of 1982 ([Public Law 97–364](/us/pl/97/364), [96 Stat. 1740](/us/stat/96/1740)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30101 | 15:1381. | Sept. 9, 1966, Pub. L. 89–563, § 1, 80 Stat. 718. |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2024 Amendment

[Pub. L. 118–156, § 1](/us/pl/118/156/s1), Dec. 17, 2024, [138 Stat. 1716](/us/stat/138/1716), provided that: “This Act [amending sections 31309 and 31311 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Strengthening the Commercial Driver’s License Information System Act’.”

#### Short Title of 2020 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title IV, § 440](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tIV/s440), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2068](/us/stat/134/2068), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle C (§§ 440, 441) of title IV of div. N of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 31102 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31102)] may be cited as the ‘Motor Carrier Safety Grant Relief Act of 2020’.”

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. U, title X, § 1001(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dU/tX/s1001/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/134/2304), provided that: “This title [enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 30301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30301) and amending provisions set out as a note under [section 30301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30301)] may be cited as the ‘REAL ID Modernization Act’.”

#### Short Title of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–323, § 1](/us/pl/115/323/s1), Dec. 17, 2018, [132 Stat. 4443](/us/stat/132/4443), provided that: “This Act [amending provisions set out as a note under [section 30301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30301)] may be cited as the ‘REAL ID Act Modification for Freely Associated States Act’.”

[Pub. L. 115–106, § 1](/us/pl/115/106/s1), Jan. 8, 2018, [131 Stat. 2265](/us/stat/131/2265), provided that: “This Act [amending [section 31310 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31310)] may be cited as the ‘No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act’.”

[Pub. L. 115–105, § 1](/us/pl/115/105/s1), Jan. 8, 2018, [131 Stat. 2263](/us/stat/131/2263), provided that: “This Act [amending [section 31305 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31305) and enacting and amending provisions set out as notes under [section 31149 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31149)] may be cited as the ‘Jobs for Our Heroes Act’.”

[Pub. L. 115–99, § 1](/us/pl/115/99/s1), Jan. 3, 2018, [131 Stat. 2242](/us/stat/131/2242), provided that: “This Act [amending sections 31110 and 31313 of this title and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 102 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s102)] may be cited as the ‘Combating Human Trafficking in Commercial Vehicles Act’.”

#### Short Title of 2015 Amendment

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. B, title XXIV, § 24109(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dB/tXXIV/s24109/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1706](/us/stat/129/1706), provided that: “This section [amending sections 30102, 30120, 30122, and 30166 of this title and enacting provisions set out as notes under [section 30102 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30102)] may be cited as the ‘Raechel and Jacqueline Houck Safe Rental Car Act of 2015’.”

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. B, title XXIV, § 24321](/us/pl/114/94/dB/tXXIV/s24321), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1713](/us/stat/129/1713), provided that: “This part [part II (§§ 24321, 24322) of subtitle C of title XXIV of div. B of [Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94), amending [section 32302 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s32302)] may be cited as the ‘Safety Through Informed Consumers Act of 2015’.”

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. B, title XXIV, § 24331](/us/pl/114/94/dB/tXXIV/s24331), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1713](/us/stat/129/1713), provided that: “This part [part III (§§ 24331–24335) of subtitle C of title XXIV of div. B of [Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94), amending sections 30117 and 32304A of this title and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 30119 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30119)] may be cited as the ‘Tire Efficiency, Safety, and Registration Act of 2015’ or the ‘TESR Act’.”

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. B, title XXIV, § 24351](/us/pl/114/94/dB/tXXIV/s24351), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1716](/us/stat/129/1716), provided that: “This part [part V (§§ 24351, 24352) of subtitle C of title XXIV of div. B of [Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94), enacting [section 30172 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30172) and provisions set out as a note under [section 30172 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30172)] may be cited as the ‘Motor Vehicle Safety Whistleblower Act’.”

#### Short Title of 2012 Amendment

[Pub. L. 112–196, § 1](/us/pl/112/196/s1), Oct. 19, 2012, [126 Stat. 1459](/us/stat/126/1459), provided that: “This Act [amending [section 31311 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31311)] may be cited as the ‘Military Commercial Driver’s License Act of 2012’.”

[Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, § 32001](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII/s32001), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 776](/us/stat/126/776), provided that “This title [see Tables for classification] may be cited as the ‘Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Enhancement Act of 2012’.”

[Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, § 32401](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII/s32401), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 795](/us/stat/126/795), provided that “This subtitle [subtitle D (§§ 32401, 32402) of title II of div. C of [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141), enacting [section 31306a of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31306a) and amending [section 31306 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31306)] may be cited as the ‘Safe Roads Act of 2012’.”

#### Short Title of 2007 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–140, title I, § 101](/us/pl/110/140/tI/s101), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1498](/us/stat/121/1498), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle A (§§ 101–113) of title I of [Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140), enacting [section 32304A of this title](/us/usc/t49/s32304A), amending sections 32308, 32901 to 32904, 32905, 32906, 32908, and 32912 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 32902, 32904, and 32908 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act’.”

#### Short Title of 2005 Amendment

[Pub. L. 109–59, title IV, § 4001](/us/pl/109/59/tIV/s4001), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1714](/us/stat/119/1714), provided that: “This title [see Tables for classification] may be cited as the ‘Motor Carrier Safety Reauthorization Act of 2005’.”

#### Short Title of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–414, § 1](/us/pl/106/414/s1), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1800](/us/stat/114/1800), provided that: “This Act [enacting [section 30170 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30170), amending sections 30115, 30117, 30118, 30120, 30165, and 30166 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 30111, 30115, 30118, 30123, and 30127 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (TREAD) Act’.”

#### Short Title of 1998 Amendment

[Pub. L. 105–178, title VII, § 7101](/us/pl/105/178/tVII/s7101), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 465](/us/stat/112/465), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle A (§§ 7101–7107) of title VII of [Pub. L. 105–178](/us/pl/105/178), enacting [section 30105 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30105), amending sections 30104, 30114, 30120, 30123, 30127, 32102, 32304, and 32705 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 30114 and 30127 of this title] may be cited as the ‘National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Reauthorization Act of 1998’.”

#### Short Title of 1996 Amendment

[Pub. L. 104–152, § 1](/us/pl/104/152/s1), July 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1384](/us/stat/110/1384), provided that: “This Act [amending sections 30501 to 30505 and 33109 of this title and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 30502 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s30502)] may be cited as the ‘Anti-Car Theft Improvements Act of 1996’.”

#### Global Harmonization

[Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title IV, § 24211](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tIV/s24211), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 825](/us/stat/135/825), provided that: “The Secretary [of Transportation] shall cooperate, to the maximum extent practicable, with foreign governments, nongovernmental stakeholder groups, the motor vehicle industry, and consumer groups with respect to global harmonization of vehicle regulations as a means for improving motor vehicle safety.”

#### Driver Privacy

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. B, title XXIV](/us/pl/114/94/dB/tXXIV), subtitle C, part I, Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1712](/us/stat/129/1712), provided that: “SEC. 24301. SHORT TITLE.“This part may be cited as the ‘Driver Privacy Act of 2015’. “SEC. 24302. LIMITATIONS ON DATA RETRIEVAL FROM VEHICLE EVENT DATA RECORDERS.“(a) Ownership of Data.—Any data retained by an event data recorder (as defined in section 563.5 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations), regardless of when the motor vehicle in which it is installed was manufactured, is the property of the owner, or, in the case of a leased vehicle, the lessee of the motor vehicle in which the event data recorder is installed. “(b) Privacy.—Data recorded or transmitted by an event data recorder described in subsection (a) may not be accessed by a person other than an owner or a lessee of the motor vehicle in which the event data recorder is installed unless—“(1) a court or other judicial or administrative authority having jurisdiction—“(A) authorizes the retrieval of the data; and “(B) to the extent that there is retrieved data, the data is subject to the standards for admission into evidence required by that court or other administrative authority; “(2) an owner or a lessee of the motor vehicle provides written, electronic, or recorded audio consent to the retrieval of the data for any purpose, including the purpose of diagnosing, servicing, or repairing the motor vehicle, or by agreeing to a subscription that describes how data will be retrieved and used; “(3) the data is retrieved pursuant to an investigation or inspection authorized under section 1131(a) or 30166 of title 49, United States Code, and the personally identifiable information of an owner or a lessee of the vehicle and the vehicle identification number is not disclosed in connection with the retrieved data, except that the vehicle identification number may be disclosed to the certifying manufacturer; “(4) the data is retrieved for the purpose of determining the need for, or facilitating, emergency medical response in response to a motor vehicle crash; or “(5) the data is retrieved for traffic safety research, and the personally identifiable information of an owner or a lessee of the vehicle and the vehicle identification number is not disclosed in connection with the retrieved data. “SEC. 24303. VEHICLE EVENT DATA RECORDER STUDY.“(a) In General.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2015], the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall submit to Congress a report that contains the results of a study conducted by the Administrator to determine the amount of time event data recorders installed in passenger motor vehicles should capture and record for retrieval vehicle-related data in conjunction with an event in order to provide sufficient information to investigate the cause of motor vehicle crashes. “(b) Rulemaking.—Not later than 2 years after submitting the report required under subsection (a), the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall promulgate regulations to establish the appropriate period during which event data recorders installed in passenger motor vehicles may capture and record for retrieval vehicle-related data to the time necessary to provide accident investigators with vehicle-related information pertinent to crashes involving such motor vehicles.”

#### National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Outreach to Manufacturer, Dealer, and Mechanic Personnel

[Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title I, § 31302](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tI/s31302), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 763](/us/stat/126/763), provided that: “The Secretary [of Transportation] shall publicize the means for contacting the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in a manner that targets mechanics, passenger motor vehicle dealership personnel, and manufacturer personnel.”

#### Side-Impact Crash Protection Rulemaking

[Pub. L. 109–59, title X, § 10302](/us/pl/109/59/tX/s10302), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1940](/us/stat/119/1940), provided that: “(a) Rulemaking.—The Secretary [of Transportation] shall complete a rulemaking proceeding under chapter 301 of title 49, United States Code, to establish a standard designed to enhance passenger motor vehicle occupant protection, in all seating positions, in side impact crashes. The Secretary shall issue a final rule by July 1, 2008. “(b) Deadlines.—If the Secretary determines that the deadline for a final rule under this section cannot be met, the Secretary shall—“(1) notify the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce and explain why that deadline cannot be met; and “(2) establish a new deadline.”

#### Vehicle Backover Avoidance Technology Study; Nontraffic Incident Data Collection

[Pub. L. 109–59, title X](/us/pl/109/59/tX), §§ 10304, 10305, Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1940](/us/stat/119/1940), 1941, provided that: “SEC. 10304. VEHICLE BACKOVER AVOIDANCE TECHNOLOGY STUDY.“(a) In General.—The Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall conduct a study of effective methods for reducing the incidence of injury and death outside of parked passenger motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of not more than 10,000 pounds attributable to movement of such vehicles. The Administrator shall complete the study within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 10, 2005] and report its findings to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce not later than 15 months after the date of enactment of this Act. “(b) Specific Issues To Be Covered.—The study required by subsection (a) shall—“(1) include an analysis of backover prevention technology; “(2) identify, evaluate, and compare the available technologies for detecting people or objects behind a motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of not more than 10,000 pounds for their accuracy, effectiveness, cost, and feasibility for installation; and “(3) provide an estimate of cost savings that would result from widespread use of backover prevention devices and technologies in motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of not more than 10,000 pounds, including savings attributable to the prevention of—“(A) injuries and fatalities; and “(B) damage to bumpers and other motor vehicle parts and damage to other objects. “SEC. 10305. NONTRAFFIC INCIDENT DATA COLLECTION.“(a) In General.—In conjunction with the study required in section 10304, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall establish a method to collect and maintain data on the number and types of injuries and deaths involving motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of not more than 10,000 pounds in non-traffic incidents. “(b) Data Collection and Publication.—The Secretary of Transportation shall publish the data collected under subsection (a) no less frequently than biennially.”

#### Study on Interior Device To Release Trunk Lid

[Pub. L. 105–178, title VII, § 7106(e)](/us/pl/105/178/tVII/s7106/e), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 469](/us/stat/112/469), required the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to conduct a study of the benefits to motor vehicle drivers of a regulation to require the installation in a motor vehicle of an interior device to release the trunk lid and to submit a report on the results of the study to the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate not later than 18 months after June 9, 1998.

#### National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Authorization Act of 1991

[Pub. L. 102–240, title II](/us/pl/102/240/tII), part B, Dec. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 2081](/us/stat/105/2081), as amended by [Pub. L. 103–272, § 7(b)](/us/pl/103/272/s7/b), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1379](/us/stat/108/1379), provided that: “SEC. 2500. SHORT TITLE.“This part may be cited as the ‘National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Authorization Act of 1991’. “[SEC. 2501. Repealed. [Pub. L. 103–272, § 7(b)](/us/pl/103/272/s7/b), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1379](/us/stat/108/1379).] “SEC. 2502. GENERAL PROVISIONS.“(a) Definitions.—As used in this part—“(1) the term ‘bus’ means a motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for carrying more than 10 persons; “(2) the term ‘multipurpose passenger vehicle’ means a motor vehicle with motive power (except a trailer), designed to carry 10 persons or fewer, which is constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation; “(3) the term ‘passenger car’ means a motor vehicle with motive power (except a multipurpose passenger vehicle, motorcycle, or trailer), designed for carrying 10 persons or fewer; “(4) the term ‘truck’ means a motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment; and “(5) the term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Transportation. “(b) Procedure.—“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), any action taken under section 2503 shall be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 ([formerly] [15 U.S.C. 1381](/us/usc/t15/s1381) et seq.). “(2) Specific procedure.—“(A) Initiation.—To initiate an action under section 2503, the Secretary shall, not later than May 31, 1992, publish in the Federal Register an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or a notice of proposed rulemaking, except that if the Secretary is unable to publish such a notice by such date, the Secretary shall by such date publish in the Federal Register a notice that the Secretary will begin such action by a certain date which may not be later than January 31, 1993 and include in such notice the reasons for the delay. A notice of delayed action shall not be considered agency action subject to judicial review. If the Secretary publishes an advance notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary is not required to follow such notice with a notice of proposed rulemaking if the Secretary determines on the basis of such advanced notice and the comments received thereon that the contemplated action should not be taken under the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 ([formerly] [15 U.S.C. 1381](/us/usc/t15/s1381) et seq.), including the provisions of section 103 of such Act ([formerly] [15 U.S.C. 1392](/us/usc/t15/s1392)), and if the Secretary publishes the reasons for such determination consistent with chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code. “(B) Completion.—“(i) Period.—Action under paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 2503 which was begun under subparagraph (A) shall be completed within 26 months of the date of publication of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or 18 months of the date of publication of a notice of proposed rulemaking. The Secretary may extend for any reason the period for completion of a rulemaking initiated by the issuance of a notice of proposed rulemaking for not more than 6 months if the Secretary publishes the reasons for such extension. The extension of such period shall not be considered agency action subject to judicial review. “(ii) Action.—A rulemaking under paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 2503 shall be considered completed when the Secretary promulgates a final rule or when the Secretary decides not to promulgate a rule (which decision may include deferral of the action or reinitiation of the action). The Secretary may not decide against promulgation of a final rule because of lack of time to complete rulemaking. Any such rulemaking actions shall be published in the Federal Register, together with the reasons for such decisions, consistent with chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, and the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 [formerly [15 U.S.C. 1381](/us/usc/t15/s1381) et seq.]. “(iii) Special rule.— “(I) Period.—Action under paragraph (5) of section 2503 which was begun under subparagraph (A) shall be completed within 24 months of the date of publication of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or a notice of proposed rulemaking. If the Secretary determines that there is a need for delay and if the public comment period is closed, the Secretary may extend the date for completion for not more than 6 months and shall publish in the Federal Register a notice stating the reasons for the extension and setting a date certain for completion of the action. The extension of the completion date shall not be considered agency action subject to judicial review. “(II) Action.—A rulemaking under paragraph (5) of section 2503 shall be considered completed when the Secretary promulgates a final rule with standards on improved head injury protection. “(C) Standard.—The Secretary may, as part of any action taken under section 2503, amend any motor vehicle safety standard or establish a new standard under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 ([formerly] [15 U.S.C. 1381](/us/usc/t15/s1381) et seq.). “SEC. 2503. MATTERS BEFORE THE SECRETARY.“The Secretary shall address the following matters in accordance with section 2502:“(1) Protection against unreasonable risk of rollovers of passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, and trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds or less and an unloaded vehicle weight of 5,500 pounds or less. “(2) Extension of passenger car side impact protection to multipurpose passenger vehicles and trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds or less and an unloaded vehicle weight of 5,500 pounds or less. “(3) Safety of child booster seats used in passenger cars and other appropriate motor vehicles. “(4) Improved design for safety belts. “(5) Improved head impact protection from interior components of passenger cars (i.e. roof rails, pillars, and front headers).“[SECS. 2504, 2505. Repealed. [Pub. L. 103–272, § 7(b)](/us/pl/103/272/s7/b), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1379](/us/stat/108/1379).] “SEC. 2506. REAR SEATBELTS.“The Secretary shall expend such portion of the funds authorized to be appropriated under the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act ([formerly] [15 U.S.C. 1901](/us/usc/t15/s1901) et seq.), for fiscal year 1993, as the Secretary deems necessary for the purpose of disseminating information to consumers regarding the manner in which passenger cars may be retrofitted with lap and shoulder rear seatbelts. “SEC. 2507. BRAKE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR PASSENGER CARS.“Not later than December 31, 1993, the Secretary, in accordance with the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 [formerly [15 U.S.C. 1381](/us/usc/t15/s1381) et seq.], shall publish an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to consider the need for any additional brake performance standards for passenger cars, including antilock brake standards. The Secretary shall complete such rulemaking (in accordance with section 2502(b)(2)(B)(ii)) not later than 36 months from the date of initiation of such advance notice of proposed rulemaking. In order to facilitate and encourage innovation and early application of economical and effective antilock brake systems for all such vehicles, the Secretary shall, as part of the rulemaking, consider any such brake system adopted by a manufacturer. “[SEC. 2508. Repealed. [Pub. L. 103–272, § 7(b)](/us/pl/103/272/s7/b), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1379](/us/stat/108/1379).] “SEC. 2509. HEAD INJURY IMPACT STUDY.“The Secretary, in the case of any head injury protection matters not subject to section 2503(5) for which the Secretary is on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 18, 1991] examining the need for rulemaking and is conducting research, shall provide a report to Congress by the end of fiscal year 1993 identifying those matters and their status. The report shall include a statement of any actions planned toward initiating such rulemaking no later than fiscal year 1994 or 1995 through use of either an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or a notice of proposed rulemaking and completing such rulemaking as soon as possible thereafter.”

#### Fuel System Integrity Standard

[Pub. L. 93–492, title I, § 108](/us/pl/93/492/tI/s108), Oct. 27, 1974, [88 Stat. 1482](/us/stat/88/1482), provided that: “(a) Ratification of Standard.—Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 301 (49 CFR 571.301–75; Docket No. 73–20, Notice 2) as published on March 21, 1974 (39 F.R. 10588–10590) shall take effect on the dates prescribed in such standard (as so published). “(b) Amendment or Repeal of Standard.—The Secretary may amend the standard described in subsection (a) in order to correct technical errors in the standard, and may amend or repeal such standard if he determines such amendment or repeal will not diminish the level of motor vehicle safety.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 11357. Administration of Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Through National Highway Safety Bureau and Its Director

Ex. Ord. No. 11357, June 6, 1967, 32 F.R. 8225, provided:

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by Section 201 of the Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended ([80 Stat. 735](/us/stat/80/735), 943) [set out as a note under [section 401 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s401), Highways], and by Section 3(f)(3) of the Department of Transportation Act ([80 Stat. 932](/us/stat/80/932)) [former [49 U.S.C. 1652(f)(3)](/us/usc/t49/s1652/f/3)], it is hereby ordered that the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, as amended ([80 Stat. 718](/us/stat/80/718), 943) [formerly [15 U.S.C. 1381](/us/usc/t15/s1381) et seq.], shall be carried out through the National Highway Safety Bureau and the Director thereof.
