---
title: "§ 430t–1. Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park boundary"
identifier: "USC-T16-S430t–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section430t–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–9, title II, § 2103](/us/pl/116/9/tII/s2103), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 725](/us/stat/133/725).)"
---
# § 430t–1. Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park boundary

##### § 430t–1. Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park boundary

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Map The term “map” means the map entitled “Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park, Proposed Boundary Adjustment”, numbered 325/80,020, and dated February 2010.

(2) Park The term “Park” means the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park.

(b) Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park boundary adjustment

(1) Boundary adjustment The boundary of the Park is modified to include the approximately 8 acres of land or interests in land identified as “Wallis House and Harriston Hill”, as generally depicted on the map.

(2) Map The map shall be on file and available for inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.

(3) Land acquisition The Secretary may acquire land or interests in land described in paragraph (1) by donation, purchase from willing sellers, or exchange.

(4) Administration of acquired land The Secretary shall administer land and interests in land acquired under this section as part of the Park in accordance with applicable laws (including regulations).

*([Pub. L. 116–9, title II, § 2103](/us/pl/116/9/tII/s2103), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 725](/us/stat/133/725).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition of “Secretary”

Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 116–9](/us/pl/116/9/s2), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1).
