---
title: "§ 31330. Penalties"
identifier: "USC-T46-S31330"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section31330"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–710, title I, § 102(c)](/us/pl/100/710/tI/s102/c), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4747](/us/stat/102/4747); [Pub. L. 104–324, title XI, § 1113(b)(2)](/us/pl/104/324/tXI/s1113/b/2), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3970](/us/stat/110/3970); [Pub. L. 111–281, title IX, § 913(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/281/tIX/s913/a/1), (d), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3017](/us/stat/124/3017).)"
---
# § 31330. Penalties

##### § 31330. Penalties

(a)

(1) A mortgagor shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 2 years, or both, if the mortgagor—

(A) with intent to defraud, does not disclose an obligation on a vessel as required by [section 31323(a) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31323/a);

(B) with intent to defraud, incurs a contractual obligation in violation of [section 31323(b) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31323/b); or

(C) with intent to hinder or defraud an existing or future creditor of the mortgagor or a lienor of the vessel, files a mortgage with the Secretary.

(2) A mortgagor is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 if the mortgagor—

(A) does not disclose an obligation on a vessel as required by [section 31323(a) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31323/a);

(B) incurs a contractual obligation in violation of [section 31323(b) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31323/b); or

(C) files with the Secretary a mortgage made not in good faith.

(b)

(1) A person that knowingly violates [section 31329 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31329) shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 3 years, or both.

(2) A person violating [section 31329 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31329) is liable to the Government for a civil penalty of not more than $25,000.

(3) A vessel involved in a violation under [section 31329 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31329) and its equipment may be seized by, and forfeited to, the Government.

(c) If a person not an individual violates this section, the president or chief executive of the person also is subject to any penalty provided under this section.

*([Pub. L. 100–710, title I, § 102(c)](/us/pl/100/710/tI/s102/c), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4747](/us/stat/102/4747); [Pub. L. 104–324, title XI, § 1113(b)(2)](/us/pl/104/324/tXI/s1113/b/2), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3970](/us/stat/110/3970); [Pub. L. 111–281, title IX, § 913(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/281/tIX/s913/a/1), (d), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3017](/us/stat/124/3017).)*

Section 31330(a) provides for criminal penalties for not disclosing obligations, incurring contractual obligations in violation of section 31323(b), and filing a mortgage made not in good faith. This subsection makes a substantive change to law by adding civil penalties and by making it a crime to record with the Secretary of Transportation a mortgage made not in good faith with the intent to hinder an existing or future creditor of the mortgagor or a lienor of the vessel. This is done since the affidavit of good faith has been eliminated from the elements of a preferred mortgage.

Section 31330(b) adds criminal and civil penalties for violating the sale and trust requirements under sections 31328 and 31329. It also makes a vessel and its equipment involved in those violations subject to seizure by the Government.

Section 31330(c) makes the president or chief executive officer of a corporation or association liable as a mortgagor for the penalties under this section.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 31330(a) | 46:941(b) (1st sentence) |
| 31330(b) | New |
| 31330(c) | 46:941(b) (1st sentence) |

#### house floor statement

Subsection (a) of this section adds criminal and civil penalties for a preferred mortgagor’s failure to carry out certain requirements under chapter 313 of title 46 (as enacted by this Act).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 913(d)(1)(A)](/us/pl/111/281/s913/d/1/A), inserted “or” after semicolon.

Subsec. (a)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 913(d)(1)(B)](/us/pl/111/281/s913/d/1/B), substituted “Secretary.” for “Secretary; or”.

[Pub. L. 111–281, § 913(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/281/s913/a/1), struck out “of Transportation” after “Secretary”.

Subsec. (a)(1)(D). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 913(d)(1)(C)](/us/pl/111/281/s913/d/1/C), struck out subpar. (D) which read as follows: “with intent to defraud, does not comply with [section 31321(h) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31321/h).”

Subsec. (a)(2)(B) to (D). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 913(d)(2)](/us/pl/111/281/s913/d/2), inserted “or” at end of subpar. (B), substituted “faith.” for “faith; or” at end of subpar. (C), and struck out subpar. (D) which read as follows: “does not comply with [section 31321(h) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31321/h).”

1996—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–324](/us/pl/104/324) struck out “31328 or” before “31329” in pars. (1) to (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1989, with certain exceptions and qualifications, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 100–710](/us/pl/100/710/s107), set out as a note under [section 31301 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s31301).
