---
title: "§ 5605. Law enforcement authority of Sergeant at Arms"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5605"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5605"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–53, title III, § 313](/us/pl/104/53/tIII/s313), Nov. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 538](/us/stat/109/538).)"
---
# § 5605. Law enforcement authority of Sergeant at Arms

##### § 5605. Law enforcement authority of Sergeant at Arms

(a) Law enforcement authority The Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives shall have the same law enforcement authority, including the authority to carry firearms, as a member of the Capitol Police. The law enforcement authority under the preceding sentence shall be subject to the requirement that the Sergeant at Arms have the qualifications specified in subsection (b).

(b) Qualifications The qualifications referred to in subsection (a) are the following:

(1) A minimum of five years of experience as a law enforcement officer before beginning service as the Sergeant at Arms.

(2) Current certification in the use of firearms by the appropriate Federal law enforcement entity or an equivalent non-Federal entity.

(3) Any other firearms qualification required for members of the Capitol Police.

(c) Regulations The Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 104–53, title III, § 313](/us/pl/104/53/tIII/s313), Nov. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 538](/us/stat/109/538).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 78 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s78) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.
