---
title: "§ 9121. Purpose"
identifier: "USC-T20-S9121"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section9121"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–462, title II, § 212](/us/pl/94/462/tII/s212), as added [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(e) [title VII, § 702]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/e/tVII/s702), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–233](/us/stat/110/3009-233), 3009–295; amended [Pub. L. 108–81, title II, § 201](/us/pl/108/81/tII/s201), Sept. 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 997](/us/stat/117/997); [Pub. L. 111–340, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/340/tII/s201), Dec. 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 3599](/us/stat/124/3599); [Pub. L. 115–410, § 7](/u"
---
# § 9121. Purpose

##### § 9121. Purpose

(1) to enhance coordination among Federal programs that relate to library, education, and information services;

(2) to promote continuous improvement in library services in all types of libraries in order to better serve the people of the United States;

(3) to facilitate access to resources in all types of libraries for the purpose of cultivating an educated and informed citizenry;

(4) to encourage resource sharing among all types of libraries for the purpose of achieving economical and efficient delivery of library services to the public;

(5) to promote literacy, education, and lifelong learning, including by building learning partnerships with school libraries in our Nation’s schools, including tribal schools, and developing resources, capabilities, and programs in support of State, tribal, and local efforts to offer a well-rounded educational experience to all students;

(6) to enable libraries to develop services that meet the needs of communities throughout the Nation, including people of diverse geographic, cultural, and socioeconomic backgrounds, individuals with disabilities, residents of rural and urban areas, Native Americans, military families, veterans, and caregivers;

(7) to enable libraries to serve as anchor institutions to support community revitalization through enhancing and expanding the services and resources provided by libraries, including those services and resources relating to workforce development, economic and business development, critical thinking skills, health information, digital literacy skills, financial literacy and other types of literacy skills, and new and emerging technology;

(8) to enhance the skills of the current library workforce and to recruit future professionals, including those from diverse and underrepresented backgrounds, to the field of library and information services;

(9) to ensure the preservation of knowledge and library collections in all formats and to enable libraries to serve their communities during disasters;

(10) to enhance the role of libraries within the information infrastructure of the United States in order to support research, education, and innovation;

(11) to promote library services that provide users with access to information through national, State, local, regional, and international collaborations and networks; and

(12) to encourage, support, and disseminate model programs of library and museum collaboration.

*([Pub. L. 94–462, title II, § 212](/us/pl/94/462/tII/s212), as added [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(e) [title VII, § 702]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/e/tVII/s702), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–233](/us/stat/110/3009-233), 3009–295; amended [Pub. L. 108–81, title II, § 201](/us/pl/108/81/tII/s201), Sept. 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 997](/us/stat/117/997); [Pub. L. 111–340, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/340/tII/s201), Dec. 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 3599](/us/stat/124/3599); [Pub. L. 115–410, § 7](/us/pl/115/410/s7), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5415](/us/stat/132/5415).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 7(1)](/us/pl/115/410/s7/1), inserted “, education,” after “library”.

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 7(2)](/us/pl/115/410/s7/2), added par. (5) and struck out former par. (5) which read as follows: “to promote literacy, education, and lifelong learning and to enhance and expand the services and resources provided by libraries, including those services and resources relating to workforce development, 21st century skills, and digital literacy skills;”.

Pars. (6), (7). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 7(4)](/us/pl/115/410/s7/4), added pars. (6) and (7). Former pars. (6) and (7) redesignated (8) and (9), respectively.

Par. (8). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 7(3)](/us/pl/115/410/s7/3), (5), redesignated par. (6) as (8) and inserted “, including those from diverse and underrepresented backgrounds,” after “professionals”.

Pars. (9) to (11). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 7(3)](/us/pl/115/410/s7/3), redesignated pars. (7) to (9) as (9) to (11), respectively.

Par. (12). [Pub. L. 115–410, § 7(6)](/us/pl/115/410/s7/6)–(8), added par. (12).

2010—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 111–340, § 201(1)](/us/pl/111/340/s201/1), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: “to consolidate Federal library service programs;”.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 111–340, § 201(2)](/us/pl/111/340/s201/2), inserted “continuous” after “promote”.

Pars. (5) to (9). [Pub. L. 111–340, § 201(3)](/us/pl/111/340/s201/3)–(5), added pars. (5) to (9).

2003—Pars. (2) to (5). [Pub. L. 108–81](/us/pl/108/81) added pars. (2) to (4) and struck out former pars. (2) to (5) which read as follows:

“(2) to stimulate excellence and promote access to learning and information resources in all types of libraries for individuals of all ages;

“(3) to promote library services that provide all users access to information through State, regional, national and international electronic networks;

“(4) to provide linkages among and between libraries; and

“(5) to promote targeted library services to people of diverse geographic, cultural, and socioeconomic backgrounds, to individuals with disabilities, and to people with limited functional literacy or information skills.”
