---
title: "§ 3510. Cooperation of agencies in making information available"
identifier: "USC-T44-S3510"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section3510"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–13, § 2](/us/pl/104/13/s2), May 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 180](/us/stat/109/180).)"
---
# § 3510. Cooperation of agencies in making information available

##### § 3510. Cooperation of agencies in making information available

(a) The Director may direct an agency to make available to another agency, or an agency may make available to another agency, information obtained by a collection of information if the disclosure is not inconsistent with applicable law.

(b)

(1) If information obtained by an agency is released by that agency to another agency, all the provisions of law (including penalties) that relate to the unlawful disclosure of information apply to the officers and employees of the agency to which information is released to the same extent and in the same manner as the provisions apply to the officers and employees of the agency which originally obtained the information.

(2) The officers and employees of the agency to which the information is released, in addition, shall be subject to the same provisions of law, including penalties, relating to the unlawful disclosure of information as if the information had been collected directly by that agency.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–13, § 2](/us/pl/104/13/s2), May 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 180](/us/stat/109/180).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3510, added [Pub. L. 96–511, § 2(a)](/us/pl/96/511/s2/a), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2822](/us/stat/94/2822), related to cooperation of agencies in making information available prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 104–13](/us/pl/104/13).

Another prior section 3510, [Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1305](/us/stat/82/1305), authorized promulgation of rules and regulations, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 96–511](/us/pl/96/511). See [section 3516 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s3516).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1995, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 104–13](/us/pl/104/13/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 3501 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s3501).
