---
title: "§ 2789. Individual equipment: unauthorized disposition"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2789"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2789"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title III, § 375(a)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tIII/s375/a), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 83](/us/stat/122/83).)"
---
# § 2789. Individual equipment: unauthorized disposition

##### § 2789. Individual equipment: unauthorized disposition

(a) Prohibition.— No member of the armed forces may sell, lend, pledge, barter, or give any clothing, arms, or equipment furnished to such member by the United States to any person other than a member of the armed forces or an officer of the United States who is authorized to receive it.

(b) Seizure of Improperly Disposed Property.— If a member of the armed forces has disposed of property in violation of subsection (a) and the property is in the possession of a person who is neither a member of the armed forces nor an officer of the United States who is authorized to receive it, that person has no right to or interest in the property, and any civil or military officer of the United States may seize the property, wherever found, subject to applicable regulations. Possession of such property furnished by the United States to a member of the armed forces by a person who is neither a member of the armed forces, nor an officer of the United States, is prima facie evidence that the property has been disposed of in violation of subsection (a).

(c) Delivery of Seized Property.— If an officer who seizes property under subsection (b) is not authorized to retain it for the United States, the officer shall deliver the property to a person who is authorized to retain it.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title III, § 375(a)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tIII/s375/a), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 83](/us/stat/122/83).)*
