---
title: "§ 5942. Wheat and feed grains research; regional and national research programs; utilization of services of Federal, State and private agencies; authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T7-S5942"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section5942"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–524, title VIII, § 810](/us/pl/91/524/tVIII/s810), as added [Pub. L. 93–86, § 1(27)(B)](/us/pl/93/86/s1/27/B), Aug. 10, 1973, [87 Stat. 238](/us/stat/87/238).)"
---
# § 5942. Wheat and feed grains research; regional and national research programs; utilization of services of Federal, State and private agencies; authorization of appropriations

##### § 5942. Wheat and feed grains research; regional and national research programs; utilization of services of Federal, State and private agencies; authorization of appropriations

In order to reduce fertilizer and herbicide usage in excess of production needs, to develop wheat and feed grain varieties more susceptible to complete fertilizer utilization, and to improve the resistance of wheat and feed grain plants to disease and to enhance their conservation and environmental qualities, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized and directed to carry out regional and national research programs.

In carrying out such research, the Secretary shall utilize the technical and related services of the appropriate Federal, State, and private agencies.

There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section, but not more than $1,000,000 in any fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 91–524, title VIII, § 810](/us/pl/91/524/tVIII/s810), as added [Pub. L. 93–86, § 1(27)(B)](/us/pl/93/86/s1/27/B), Aug. 10, 1973, [87 Stat. 238](/us/stat/87/238).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 428b of this title](/us/usc/t7/s428b) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was enacted as part of the Agricultural Act of 1970, and not as part of subtitle H of title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 which comprises this subchapter.
