---
title: "§ 1835. Interagency details"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1835"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1835"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–244, div. B, title I, § 134](/us/pl/115/244/dB/tI/s134), Sept. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 2936](/us/stat/132/2936).)"
---
# § 1835. Interagency details

##### § 1835. Interagency details

(a) Authorizing details of employees under joint agency agreements In addition to any other authority relating to the detail of employees, the Architect of the Capitol and the head of any other department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government may enter into a joint agency agreement under which—

(1) employees of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol (including employees of the United States Botanic Garden) may be detailed to such department, agency, or instrumentality on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis; and

(2) employees of such department, agency, or instrumentality may be detailed to the Office of the Architect of the Capitol on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis.

(b) Duration The detail of an employee under a joint agency agreement under this section shall be for such duration as may be provided in the agreement, except that in the case of a detail made on a non-reimbursable basis, the duration of the detail may not exceed one year unless the Architect of the Capitol and the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality involved each determine that an extension of the detail of the employee is in the public interest.

(c) No effect on appropriations of recipient of non-reimbursable detail For purposes of any law, rule, or regulation, the detail of an employee on a non-reimbursable basis under a joint agency agreement under this section for a fiscal year shall not be treated as an increase or modification of the appropriation for the fiscal year of the office to whom the employee is detailed.

(d) Effective date This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 115–244, div. B, title I, § 134](/us/pl/115/244/dB/tI/s134), Sept. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 2936](/us/stat/132/2936).)*
