---
title: "§ 2254. Assessment of operation and maintenance needs of the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2254"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2254"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2008](/us/pl/113/121/tII/s2008), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1268](/us/stat/128/1268).)"
---
# § 2254. Assessment of operation and maintenance needs of the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway

##### § 2254. Assessment of operation and maintenance needs of the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after June 10, 2014, the Secretary shall assess the operation and maintenance needs of the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway.

(b) Types of activities In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall assess the operation and maintenance needs of the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway as used for the following purposes:

(1) Commercial navigation.

(2) Commercial fishing.

(3) Subsistence, including utilization by Indian tribes (as defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304)) for subsistence and ceremonial purposes.

(4) Use as ingress and egress to harbors of refuge.

(5) Transportation of persons.

(6) Purposes relating to domestic energy production, including fabrication, servicing, and supply of domestic offshore energy production facilities.

(7) Activities of the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating.

(8) Public health and safety related equipment for responding to coastal and inland emergencies.

(9) Recreation purposes.

(10) Any other authorized purpose.

(c) Report to Congress For fiscal year 2015, and biennially thereafter, in conjunction with the annual budget submission by the President to Congress under [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and make publicly available a report that, with respect to the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway—

(1) identifies the operation and maintenance costs required to achieve the authorized length, width, and depth;

(2) identifies the amount of funding requested in the President’s budget for operation and maintenance costs; and

(3) identifies the unmet operation and maintenance needs of the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway.

*([Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2008](/us/pl/113/121/tII/s2008), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1268](/us/stat/128/1268).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
