---
title: "§ 4086. Entitlement to vote in a State in a Federal election; preconditions; applicability"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4086"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4086"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 906](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s906), as added [Pub. L. 98–164, title I, § 129(a)](/us/pl/98/164/tI/s129/a), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1027](/us/stat/97/1027).)"
---
# § 4086. Entitlement to vote in a State in a Federal election; preconditions; applicability

##### § 4086. Entitlement to vote in a State in a Federal election; preconditions; applicability

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) and in such manner as shall be otherwise authorized by a State or other jurisdiction within the territory of the United States, a member of the Service residing outside the United States shall, in addition to any entitlement to vote in a State in a Federal election under section 3 of the Overseas Citizens Voting Rights Act ([42 U.S.C. 1973dd–1](/us/usc/t42/s1973dd–1)), be entitled to vote in a Federal election in the State in which such member was last domiciled immediately before entering the Service if such member—

(1) makes an election of that State;

(2) notifies that State of such election and notifies any other States in which he or she is entitled to vote of such election; and

(3) otherwise meets the requirements of such Act [[42 U.S.C. 1973dd](/us/usc/t42/s1973dd) et seq.].

(b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall apply only to an individual who becomes a member of the Service on or after November 22, 1983, and shall not apply to an individual who registers to vote in a State in which he is entitled to vote under section 3 of Overseas Citizens Voting Rights Act [[42 U.S.C. 1973dd–1](/us/usc/t42/s1973dd–1)].

*([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 906](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s906), as added [Pub. L. 98–164, title I, § 129(a)](/us/pl/98/164/tI/s129/a), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1027](/us/stat/97/1027).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Overseas Citizens Voting Rights Act, referred to in text, probably means the Overseas Citizens Voting Rights Act of 1975, [Pub. L. 94–203](/us/pl/94/203), Jan. 2, 1976, [89 Stat. 1142](/us/stat/89/1142), which was classified generally to subchapter I–E (§ 1973dd et seq.) of chapter 20 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and which was repealed by [Pub. L. 99–410, title II, § 203](/us/pl/99/410/tII/s203), Aug. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 930](/us/stat/100/930).
