---
title: "§ 5203. Excess disaster assistance payments as budgetary emergency requirements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5203"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5203"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–229, title I](/us/pl/102/229/tI), Dec. 12, 1991, [105 Stat. 1711](/us/stat/105/1711).)"
---
# § 5203. Excess disaster assistance payments as budgetary emergency requirements

##### § 5203. Excess disaster assistance payments as budgetary emergency requirements

Beginning in fiscal year 1993, and in each year thereafter, notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts appropriated for disaster assistance payments under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 5121](/us/usc/t42/s5121) et seq.) that are in excess of either the historical annual average obligation of $320,000,000, or the amount submitted in the President’s initial budget request, whichever is lower, shall be considered as “emergency requirements” pursuant to section 901(b)(2)(D) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 2, and such amounts shall on and after December 12, 1991, be so designated.

*([Pub. L. 102–229, title I](/us/pl/102/229/tI), Dec. 12, 1991, [105 Stat. 1711](/us/stat/105/1711).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

[Section 901 of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s901), referred to in text, was amended by [Pub. L. 105–33, title X, § 10203(a)(4)](/us/pl/105/33/tX/s10203/a/4), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 699](/us/stat/111/699), and [Pub. L. 112–25, title I, § 101](/us/pl/112/25/tI/s101), Aug. 2, 2011, [125 Stat. 241](/us/stat/125/241). As so amended, [section 901(b)(2)(D) of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s901/b/2/D) no longer refers to “emergency requirements”.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and Transfers for Relief From the Effects of Natural Disasters, for Other Urgent Needs, and for Incremental Cost of “Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm” Act of 1992, and not as a part of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act which comprises this chapter.
