---
title: "§ 10158. Interest-bearing trust funds"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10158"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10158"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 507](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s507), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(a)(2)(C)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/a/2/C), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3100](/us/stat/119/3100).)"
---
# § 10158. Interest-bearing trust funds

##### § 10158. Interest-bearing trust funds

(a) Trust fund required A State or unit of local government shall establish a trust fund in which to deposit amounts received under this part.

(b) Expenditures

(1) In general Each amount received under this part (including interest on such amount) shall be expended before the date on which the grant period expires.

(2) Repayment A State or unit of local government that fails to expend an entire amount (including interest on such amount) as required by paragraph (1) shall repay the unexpended portion to the Attorney General not later than 3 months after the date on which the grant period expires.

(3) Reduction of future amounts If a State or unit of local government fails to comply with paragraphs (1) and (2), the Attorney General shall reduce amounts to be provided to that State or unit of local government accordingly.

(c) Repaid amounts Amounts received as repayments under this section shall be subject to [section 10108 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10108) as if such amounts had not been granted and repaid. Such amounts shall be deposited in the Treasury in a dedicated fund for use by the Attorney General to carry out this part. Such funds are hereby made available to carry out this part.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 507](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s507), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(a)(2)(C)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/a/2/C), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3100](/us/stat/119/3100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3757 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3757), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 507 of title I of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s507), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6091(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6091/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4335](/us/stat/102/4335), related to designation and purposes of a State office, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/a/1), (d), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/119/3094), 3102, applicable with respect to the first fiscal year beginning after Jan. 5, 2006, and each fiscal year thereafter.

Another prior [section 507 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s507), title I, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 205](/us/stat/82/205); [Pub. L. 93–83, § 2](/us/pl/93/83/s2), Aug. 6, 1973, [87 Stat. 211](/us/stat/87/211); [Pub. L. 94–503, title I](/us/pl/94/503/tI), §§ 119(b), 121, Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2417](/us/stat/90/2417), 2418, related to officers, employees, and hearing examiners, prior to the general amendment of title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) by [Pub. L. 96–157](/us/pl/96/157).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to the first fiscal year beginning after Jan. 5, 2006, and each fiscal year thereafter, see [section 1111(d) of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s1111/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2006 Amendment note under [section 10151 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10151).
