---
title: "§ 10131. Statement of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 301](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s301), as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1176](/us/stat/93/1176); amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 605(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s605/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2079](/us/stat/98/2079).)"
---
# § 10131. Statement of purpose

##### § 10131. Statement of purpose

It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for and encourage the collection and analysis of statistical information concerning crime, juvenile delinquency, and the operation of the criminal justice system and related aspects of the civil justice system and to support the development of information and statistical systems at the Federal, State, and local levels to improve the efforts of these levels of government to measure and understand the levels of crime, juvenile delinquency, and the operation of the criminal justice system and related aspects of the civil justice system. The Bureau shall utilize to the maximum extent feasible State governmental organizations and facilities responsible for the collection and analysis of criminal justice data and statistics. In carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Bureau shall give primary emphasis to the problems of State and local justice systems.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 301](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s301), as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1176](/us/stat/93/1176); amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 605(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s605/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2079](/us/stat/98/2079).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3731 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3731), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 301 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s301), title I, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 199](/us/stat/82/199); [Pub. L. 91–644, title I, § 4(1)](/us/pl/91/644/tI/s4/1)–(4), Jan. 2, 1971, [84 Stat. 1882](/us/stat/84/1882); [Pub. L. 93–83, § 2](/us/pl/93/83/s2), Aug. 6, 1973, [87 Stat. 199](/us/stat/87/199); [Pub. L. 94–503, title I](/us/pl/94/503/tI), §§ 109, 128(b), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2411](/us/stat/90/2411), 2424, related to purposes and categories of grants for law enforcement and criminal justice purposes, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 96–157](/us/pl/96/157).

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) struck out “(including white-collar crime and public corruption)” after “information concerning crime” and “(including crimes against the elderly, white-collar crime, and public corruption)” after “levels of crime”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 609AA(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609AA/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
