---
title: "§ 567. Navigation and flood control improvements by Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota"
identifier: "USC-T33-S567"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section567"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Aug. 8, 1917, ch. 49, § 5](/us/act/1917-08-08/ch49/s5), [40 Stat. 266](/us/stat/40/266); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 567. Navigation and flood control improvements by Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota

##### § 567. Navigation and flood control improvements by Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota

Congress consents that the States of Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota, or any two of them, may enter into any agreement or agreements with each other to aid in improving navigation and to prevent and control floods on boundary waters of said States and the waters tributary thereto. And said States, or any two of them, may agree with each other upon any project or projects for the purpose of making such improvements, and upon the amount of money to be contributed by each to carry out such projects. The Secretary of the Army is authorized and directed to make a survey of any project proposed, as aforesaid, by said States, or any two of them, to determine the feasibility and practicability thereof and the expenses of carrying the same into effect and what share of such expenses should be borne by the respective States, local interests, or by the National Government. If the Secretary of the Army approves any such projects, he may authorize the States to make such improvements at their own expense, but under his supervision.

*([Aug. 8, 1917, ch. 49, § 5](/us/act/1917-08-08/ch49/s5), [40 Stat. 266](/us/stat/40/266); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from a part of section 5 of act Aug. 8, 1917, which act was popularly known as the “Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act for 1917”. The omitted part of such section read as follows: “That the sum of $25,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated, out of any funds in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, for the purpose of enabling the Secretary of War to make the surveys and estimates herein contemplated.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.
