---
title: "§ 1613. Prohibition on provision of gifts or travel by registered lobbyists to Members of Congress and to congressional employees"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1613"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1613"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–65, § 25](/us/pl/104/65/s25), as added [Pub. L. 110–81, title II, § 206(a)](/us/pl/110/81/tII/s206/a), Sept. 14, 2007, [121 Stat. 747](/us/stat/121/747).)"
---
# § 1613. Prohibition on provision of gifts or travel by registered lobbyists to Members of Congress and to congressional employees

##### § 1613. Prohibition on provision of gifts or travel by registered lobbyists to Members of Congress and to congressional employees

(a) Prohibition Any person described in subsection (b) may not make a gift or provide travel to a covered legislative branch official if the person has knowledge that the gift or travel may not be accepted by that covered legislative branch official under the Rules of the House of Representatives or the Standing Rules of the Senate (as the case may be).

(b) Persons subject to prohibition The persons subject to the prohibition under subsection (a) are any lobbyist that is registered or is required to register under [section 1603(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1603/a/1), any organization that employs 1 or more lobbyists and is registered or is required to register under [section 1603(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1603/a/2), and any employee listed or required to be listed as a lobbyist by a registrant under section 1603(b)(6) or 1604(b)(2)(C) of this title.

*([Pub. L. 104–65, § 25](/us/pl/104/65/s25), as added [Pub. L. 110–81, title II, § 206(a)](/us/pl/110/81/tII/s206/a), Sept. 14, 2007, [121 Stat. 747](/us/stat/121/747).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 110–81, title II, § 206(b)](/us/pl/110/81/tII/s206/b), Sept. 14, 2007, [121 Stat. 747](/us/stat/121/747), provided that: “The amendment made by this section [enacting this section] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Sept. 14, 2007].”
