---
title: "§ 6461. Exports of certain items used in particularly severe violations of religious freedom"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6461"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6461"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–292, title IV, § 423](/us/pl/105/292/tIV/s423), Oct. 27, 1998, [112 Stat. 2810](/us/stat/112/2810).)"
---
# § 6461. Exports of certain items used in particularly severe violations of religious freedom

##### § 6461. Exports of certain items used in particularly severe violations of religious freedom

(a) Mandatory licensing Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Commerce, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall include on the list of crime control and detection instruments or equipment controlled for export and reexport under section 4605(n) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 50 or under any other provision of law, items being exported or reexported to countries of particular concern for religious freedom that the Secretary of Commerce, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, and in consultation with appropriate officials including the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor and the Ambassador at Large, determines are being used or are intended for use directly and in significant measure to carry out particularly severe violations of religious freedom.

(b) Licensing ban The prohibition on the issuance of a license for export of crime control and detection instruments or equipment under [section 2304(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2304/a/2) shall apply to the export and reexport of any item included pursuant to subsection (a) on the list of crime control instruments.

*([Pub. L. 105–292, title IV, § 423](/us/pl/105/292/tIV/s423), Oct. 27, 1998, [112 Stat. 2810](/us/stat/112/2810).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 4605(n) of title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4605/n), referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1766(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1766/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/132/2232).
