---
title: "§ 7142b. Authority"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7142b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7142b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title IV, § 402]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/4/dB/tIV/s402), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–267.)"
---
# § 7142b. Authority

##### § 7142b. Authority

(1) accept and dispose of any gift, devise, or bequest of services or property, real or personal, that is—

(A) designated in a written document by the person making the gift, devise, or bequest as intended for the Museum; and

(B) determined by the Secretary to be suitable and beneficial for use by the Museum;

(2) operate a retail outlet on the premises of the Museum for the purpose of selling or distributing items (including mementos, food, educational materials, replicas, and literature) that are—

(A) relevant to the contents of the Museum; and

(B) informative, educational, and tasteful;

(3) collect reasonable fees where feasible and appropriate;

(4) exhibit, perform, display, and publish materials and information of or relating to the Museum in any media or place;

(5) consistent with guidelines approved by the Secretary, lease space on the premises of the Museum at reasonable rates and for uses consistent with such guidelines; and

(6) use the proceeds of activities authorized under this section to pay the costs of the Museum.

*([Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title IV, § 402]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/4/dB/tIV/s402), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–267.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2001, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
