---
title: "§ 1340. Joint report to Congress; consultation and coordination of implementation, enforcement, and departmental activities; studies"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1340"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1340"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–195, § 11](/us/pl/92/195/s11), formerly § 10, Dec. 15, 1971, [85 Stat. 651](/us/stat/85/651), renumbered [Pub. L. 94–579, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/94/579/tIV/s404), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/90/2775).)"
---
# § 1340. Joint report to Congress; consultation and coordination of implementation, enforcement, and departmental activities; studies

##### § 1340. Joint report to Congress; consultation and coordination of implementation, enforcement, and departmental activities; studies

After the expiration of thirty calendar months following December 15, 1971, and every twenty-four calendar months thereafter, the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture will submit to Congress a joint report on the administration of this chapter, including a summary of enforcement and/or other actions taken thereunder, costs, and such recommendations for legislative or other actions as he might deem appropriate.

The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with respect to the implementation and enforcement of this chapter and to the maximum feasible extent coordinate the activities of their respective departments and in the implementation and enforcement of this chapter. The Secretaries are authorized and directed to undertake those studies of the habits of wild free-roaming horses and burros that they may deem necessary in order to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 92–195, § 11](/us/pl/92/195/s11), formerly § 10, Dec. 15, 1971, [85 Stat. 651](/us/stat/85/651), renumbered [Pub. L. 94–579, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/94/579/tIV/s404), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/90/2775).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of this section relating to the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture submitting a joint report to Congress every twenty-four months on the administration of this chapter, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and page 147 of House Document No. 103–7.
