---
title: "§ 1163. Responsibility of Alaska to meet educational needs of Pribilof Islands citizens"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1163"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1163"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–702, title II, § 203](/us/pl/89/702/tII/s203), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1093](/us/stat/80/1093); [Pub. L. 98–129, § 2](/us/pl/98/129/s2), Oct. 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 838](/us/stat/97/838).)"
---
# § 1163. Responsibility of Alaska to meet educational needs of Pribilof Islands citizens

##### § 1163. Responsibility of Alaska to meet educational needs of Pribilof Islands citizens

The State of Alaska will be responsible for meeting the educational needs of the citizens of the Pribilof Islands.

*([Pub. L. 89–702, title II, § 203](/us/pl/89/702/tII/s203), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1093](/us/stat/80/1093); [Pub. L. 98–129, § 2](/us/pl/98/129/s2), Oct. 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 838](/us/stat/97/838).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1983—[Pub. L. 98–129](/us/pl/98/129) substituted provisions directing that the State of Alaska be responsible for meeting the educational needs of the citizens of the Pribilof Islands for provisions which had authorized the Secretary (1) to provide, with or without reimbursement, the natives of the Pribilof Islands with such facilities, services, and equipment as he deemed necessary, including, but not limited to food, fuel, shelter, transportation, and education, (2) to provide the employees of the Department of Commerce and other Federal agencies and their dependents, and tourists and other persons, at reasonable rates to be determined by the Secretary, with such facilities, services, and equipment as he deemed necessary, including, but not limited to, food, fuel, shelter, transportation, and education, (3) to purchase, transport, store, and distribute such supplies and equipment to carry out the provisions of this section as the Secretary deemed necessary, and (4) to purchase, construct, operate, and maintain the facilities necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
