---
title: "§ 2442. Relationship to existing treaties and statutes"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2442"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2442"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–623, title III, § 313](/us/pl/98/623/tIII/s313), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3406](/us/stat/98/3406).)"
---
# § 2442. Relationship to existing treaties and statutes

##### § 2442. Relationship to existing treaties and statutes

(a) In general Nothing in this chapter 11 See Codification note below. shall be construed as contravening or superseding (1) the provisions of any international treaty, convention, or agreement, if such treaty, convention or agreement is in force with respect to the United States on Nov. 8, 1984, or (2) the provisions of any statute which implements any such treaty, convention, or agreement. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as contravening or superseding the provisions of any statute enacted before Nov. 8, 1984, which may otherwise apply to Antarctic marine living resources.

(b) Application of more restrictive provisions Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the application of provisions of the Convention, conservation measures adopted by the Commission pursuant to article IX of the Convention, or regulations promulgated under this chapter, which are more restrictive than the provisions of, measures adopted under, or regulations promulgated under, the treaties or statutes described in subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 98–623, title III, § 313](/us/pl/98/623/tIII/s313), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3406](/us/stat/98/3406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

This chapter, the first time it appears in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this title”, as the probable intent of Congress.
