---
title: "§ 269g–1. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S269g–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section269g–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–244, § 2](/us/pl/88/244/s2), Dec. 30, 1963, [77 Stat. 775](/us/stat/77/775); [Pub. L. 92–497](/us/pl/92/497), Oct. 17, 1972, [86 Stat. 814](/us/stat/86/814); [Pub. L. 97–241, title I, § 114](/us/pl/97/241/tI/s114), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 278](/us/stat/96/278).)"
---
# § 269g–1. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 269g–1. Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the payment by the United States of its proportionate share of the expenses of the Hague Conference on Private International Law and of the International (Rome) Institute for the Unification of Private Law.

*([Pub. L. 88–244, § 2](/us/pl/88/244/s2), Dec. 30, 1963, [77 Stat. 775](/us/stat/77/775); [Pub. L. 92–497](/us/pl/92/497), Oct. 17, 1972, [86 Stat. 814](/us/stat/86/814); [Pub. L. 97–241, title I, § 114](/us/pl/97/241/tI/s114), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 278](/us/stat/96/278).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1982—[Pub. L. 97–241](/us/pl/97/241) struck out provision that no payment of the United States for any year exceed 7 per centum of all expenses apportioned among members for that year.

1972—[Pub. L. 92–497](/us/pl/92/497) substituted provisions authorizing to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the payment of the United States of its proportionate share, except that no payment of the United States for any year shall exceed 7 per centum of all expenses apportioned among members for that year, for provisions authorizing to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary, not to exceed $25,000 annually, for the payment by the United States of its proportionate share.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Annual Appropriations

Annual appropriations to meet the obligations of membership in various international organizations were contained in acts listed in a note set out under [section 269a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s269a).
