---
title: "§ 357. Special and incentive pay authorities for members of the reserve components of the armed forces"
identifier: "USC-T37-S357"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section357"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VI, § 602(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVI/s602/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1765](/us/stat/135/1765); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title VI, § 612(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tVI/s612/a), (b)(1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 290](/us/stat/137/290).)"
---
# § 357. Special and incentive pay authorities for members of the reserve components of the armed forces

##### § 357. Special and incentive pay authorities for members of the reserve components of the armed forces

(1) maintaining a skill certification or proficiency identical to a skill certification or proficiency required of the member in the regular component; or

(2) compensating the member of the reserve component for exposure to hazards or risks identical to hazards or risks to which the member in the regular component was exposed.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VI, § 602(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVI/s602/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1765](/us/stat/135/1765); amended [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title VI, § 612(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tVI/s612/a), (b)(1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 290](/us/stat/137/290).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—[Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31), in section catchline, substituted “Special and incentive” for “Incentive” and, in text, substituted “special or incentive pay” for “incentive pay” and “if the Secretary concerned is paying the member of the reserve component the special or incentive pay for the purpose of—” for period, and added pars. (1) and (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Implementation of Section

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VI, § 602(c)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVI/s602/c), (d), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1765](/us/stat/135/1765), as amended by [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title VI, § 612(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tVI/s612/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 291](/us/stat/137/291), provided that: “(c) Report.—Not later than September 30, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing—“(1) the plan of the Secretary to implement section 357 of such title [[37 U.S.C. 357](/us/usc/t37/s357)], as added by subsection (a); “(2) an estimate of the costs of such implementation; “(3) the number of members described in such section; and “(4) any other matter the Secretary determines relevant. “(d) Implementation Date.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary shall not implement section 357 of such title, as added by subsection (a) until after—“(A) submission of the report under subsection (c); and “(B) the Secretary determines and certifies in writing to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives that such implementation shall not have a detrimental effect on the force structure of an Armed Force concerned, including with regard to recruiting or retention of members in the regular component of such Armed Force. “(2) Evaluation of types of special and incentive pay.—In making the determination and certification described in paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall evaluate each type or category of special and incentive pay separately and may make the determination and certification based on the effect on an Armed Force concerned of a particular type or category of special or incentive pay.”
