---
title: "§ 5118. Hazardous material technical assessment, research and development, and analysis program"
identifier: "USC-T49-S5118"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section5118"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title III, § 33007(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tIII/s33007/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 835](/us/stat/126/835); amended [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VI, § 6014](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVI/s6014), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1570](/us/stat/129/1570).)"
---
# § 5118. Hazardous material technical assessment, research and development, and analysis program

##### § 5118. Hazardous material technical assessment, research and development, and analysis program

(a) Risk Reduction.—

(1) Program authorized.— The Secretary of Transportation may develop and implement a hazardous material technical assessment, research and development, and analysis program for the purpose of—

(A) reducing the risks associated with the transportation of hazardous material; and

(B) identifying and evaluating new technologies to facilitate the safe, secure, and efficient transportation of hazardous material.

(2) Coordination.— In developing the program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—

(A) utilize information gathered from other modal administrations with similar programs;

(B) coordinate with other modal administrations, as appropriate; and

(C) coordinate, as appropriate, with other Federal agencies.

(b) Cooperation.— In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall work cooperatively with regulated and other entities, including shippers, carriers, emergency responders, State and local officials, and academic institutions.

(c) Cooperative Research.—

(1) In general.— As part of the program established under subsection (a), the Secretary may carry out cooperative research on hazardous materials transport.

(2) National academies.— The Secretary may enter into an agreement with the National Academies to support research described in paragraph (1).

(3) Research.— Research conducted under this subsection may include activities relating to—

(A) emergency planning and response, including information and programs that can be readily assessed and implemented in local jurisdictions;

(B) risk analysis and perception and data assessment;

(C) commodity flow data, including voluntary collaboration between shippers and first responders for secure data exchange of critical information;

(D) integration of safety and security;

(E) cargo packaging and handling;

(F) hazmat release consequences; and

(G) materials and equipment testing.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title III, § 33007(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tIII/s33007/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 835](/us/stat/126/835); amended [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VI, § 6014](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVI/s6014), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1570](/us/stat/129/1570).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5118, [Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 777](/us/stat/108/777); [Pub. L. 108–426, § 2(c)(2)](/us/pl/108/426/s2/c/2), Nov. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2424](/us/stat/118/2424), related to employment of additional hazardous material safety inspectors, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–59, title VII, § 7115(h)](/us/pl/109/59/tVII/s7115/h), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1901](/us/stat/119/1901).

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (a)(2)(C). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 6014(1)](/us/pl/114/94/s6014/1), added subpar. (C).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 6014(2)](/us/pl/114/94/s6014/2), added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94) effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as a note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.
