---
title: "§ 7632. Annual report"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7632"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7632"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–322, title II, § 216(b)](/us/pl/100/322/tII/s216/b), May 20, 1988, [102 Stat. 528](/us/stat/102/528), § 4332; renumbered § 7632, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/404), 405; [Pub. L. 105–368, title VIII, § 805(5)](/us/pl/105/368/tVIII/s805/5), Nov. 11, 1998, [112 Stat. 3359](/us/stat/11"
---
# § 7632. Annual report

##### § 7632. Annual report

(1) The number of students receiving educational assistance under the Educational Assistance Program, showing the numbers of students receiving assistance under the Scholarship Program, the Tuition Reimbursement Program, the Employee Incentive Scholarship Program, the Education Debt Reduction Program, the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program, and the Readjustment Counseling Service Scholarship Program separately, and the number of students (if any) enrolled in each type of health profession training under each program.

(2) The education institutions (if any) providing such training to students in each program.

(3) The number of applications filed under each program, by health profession category, during the school year beginning in such year and the total number of such applications so filed for all years in which the Educational Assistance Program (or predecessor program) has been in existence.

(4) The average amounts of educational assistance provided per participant in the Scholarship Program, per participant in the Tuition Reimbursement Program, per participant in the Employee Incentive Scholarship Program, per participant in the Education Debt Reduction Program, per participant in the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program, and per participant in the Readjustment Counseling Service Scholarship Program.

(5) The amount of tuition and other expenses paid, by health profession category, in the aggregate and at each educational institution for the school year beginning in such year and for prior school years.

(6) The number of scholarships accepted, by health profession category, during the school year beginning in such year and the number, by health profession category, which were offered and not accepted.

(7) The number of participants who complete a course or course of training in each program each year and for all years that such program (or predecessor program) has been in existence.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–322, title II, § 216(b)](/us/pl/100/322/tII/s216/b), May 20, 1988, [102 Stat. 528](/us/stat/102/528), § 4332; renumbered § 7632, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/404), 405; [Pub. L. 105–368, title VIII, § 805(5)](/us/pl/105/368/tVIII/s805/5), Nov. 11, 1998, [112 Stat. 3359](/us/stat/112/3359); [Pub. L. 115–182, title III, § 303(b)(1)(E)](/us/pl/115/182/tIII/s303/b/1/E), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1467](/us/stat/132/1467); [Pub. L. 116–171, title V, § 502(b)(1)(E)](/us/pl/116/171/tV/s502/b/1/E), Oct. 17, 2020, [134 Stat. 818](/us/stat/134/818).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 116–171, § 502(b)(1)(E)(i)](/us/pl/116/171/s502/b/1/E/i), substituted “the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program, and the Readjustment Counseling Service Scholarship Program” for “and the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 116–171, § 502(b)(1)(E)(ii)](/us/pl/116/171/s502/b/1/E/ii), substituted “per participant in the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program, and per participant in the Readjustment Counseling Service Scholarship Program” for “and per participant in the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program”.

2018—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 115–182, § 303(b)(1)(E)(i)](/us/pl/115/182/s303/b/1/E/i), substituted “the Education Debt Reduction Program, and the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program” for “and the Education Debt Reduction Program”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 115–182, § 303(b)(1)(E)(ii)](/us/pl/115/182/s303/b/1/E/ii), substituted “per participant in the Education Debt Reduction Program, and per participant in the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program” for “and per participant in the Education Debt Reduction Program”.

1998—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 105–368, § 805(5)(A)](/us/pl/105/368/s805/5/A), substituted “, the Tuition Reimbursement Program, the Employee Incentive Scholarship Program, and the Education Debt Reduction Program” for “and the Tuition Reimbursement Program” and inserted “(if any)” after “number of students”.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 105–368, § 805(5)(B)](/us/pl/105/368/s805/5/B), inserted “(if any)” after “education institutions”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 105–368, § 805(5)(C)](/us/pl/105/368/s805/5/C), substituted “, per participant” for “and per participant” and inserted “, per participant in the Employee Incentive Scholarship Program, and per participant in the Education Debt Reduction Program” before period at end.

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 4332 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4332) as this section.

[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” in introductory provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of reporting provisions in this section, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and page 145 of House Document No. 103–7.
