---
title: "§ 70012. Navigational hazards"
identifier: "USC-T46-S70012"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section70012"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tIV/s401/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4259](/us/stat/132/4259).)"
---
# § 70012. Navigational hazards

##### § 70012. Navigational hazards

(a) Reporting Procedure.— The Secretary shall establish a program to encourage fishermen and other vessel operators to report potential or existing navigational hazards involving pipelines to the Secretary through Coast Guard field offices.

(b) Secretary’s Response.—

(1) Notification by the operator of a pipeline.— Upon notification by the operator of a pipeline of a hazard to navigation with respect to that pipeline, the Secretary shall immediately notify Coast Guard headquarters, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, other affected Federal and State agencies, and vessel owners and operators in the pipeline’s vicinity.

(2) Notification by other persons.— Upon notification by any other person of a hazard or potential hazard to navigation with respect to a pipeline, the Secretary shall promptly determine whether a hazard exists, and if so shall immediately notify Coast Guard headquarters, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, other affected Federal and State agencies, vessel owners and operators in the pipeline’s vicinity, and the owner and operator of the pipeline.

(c) Pipeline Defined.— For purposes of this section, the term “pipeline” has the meaning given the term “pipeline facility” in [section 60101(a)(18) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s60101/a/18).

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tIV/s401/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4259](/us/stat/132/4259).)*
