---
title: "§ 276c–4. Employment of United States citizens by certain international organizations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S276c–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section276c–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–138, title I, § 181](/us/pl/102/138/tI/s181), Oct. 28, 1991, [105 Stat. 682](/us/stat/105/682); [Pub. L. 114–323, title III, § 308](/us/pl/114/323/tIII/s308), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/130/1923).)"
---
# § 276c–4. Employment of United States citizens by certain international organizations

##### § 276c–4. Employment of United States citizens by certain international organizations

(1) for each international organization that had a geographic distribution formula in effect on January 1, 1991, an assessment of whether that organization—

(A) is taking good faith steps to increase the staffing of United States citizens, including, as appropriate, as assessment of any additional steps the organization could be taking to increase such staffing; and

(B) has met the requirements of its geographic distribution formula; and

(2) an assessment of United States representation among professional and senior-level positions at the United Nations, including—

(A) an assessment of the proportion of United States citizens employed at the United Nations Secretariat and at all United Nations specialized agencies, funds, and programs relative to the total employment at the United Nations Secretariat and at all such agencies, funds, and programs;

(B) an assessment of compliance by the United Nations Secretariat and such agencies, funds, and programs with any applicable geographic distribution formula; and

(C) a description of any steps taken or planned to be taken by the United States to increase the staffing of United States citizens at the United Nations Secretariat and such agencies, funds and programs.

*([Pub. L. 102–138, title I, § 181](/us/pl/102/138/tI/s181), Oct. 28, 1991, [105 Stat. 682](/us/stat/105/682); [Pub. L. 114–323, title III, § 308](/us/pl/114/323/tIII/s308), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/130/1923).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–323](/us/pl/114/323) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Not less than 180 days after October 28, 1991, and each year thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Congress concerning each international organization which had a geographic distribution formula in effect on January 1, 1991, of whether each such organization—

“(1) is taking good faith steps to increase the staffing of United States citizens; and

“(2) has met its geographic distribution formula.”
