---
title: "§ 47143. Non-movement area surveillance surface display systems pilot program"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47143"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47143"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 140(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s140/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3210](/us/stat/132/3210); amended [Pub. L. 118–15, div. B, title II, § 2202(i)](/us/pl/118/15/dB/tII/s2202/i), Sept. 30, 2023, [137 Stat. 83](/us/stat/137/83); [Pub. L. 118–34, title I, § 102(i)](/us/pl/118/34/tI/s102/i), Dec. 26, 2023, [137 Stat. 1113](/us/stat/137/1113); [Pub. L. 118–41, title I, § 102(i)](/us/pl/118/41/tI/s102/i), Mar. 8, 2024, [138 Stat. 21](/us/stat/138/21); [Pub. L. 1"
---
# § 47143. Non-movement area surveillance surface display systems pilot program

##### § 47143. Non-movement area surveillance surface display systems pilot program

(a) In General.— The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may carry out a pilot program to support non-Federal acquisition and installation of qualifying non-movement area surveillance surface display systems and sensors if—

(1) the Administrator determines that such systems and sensors would improve safety or capacity in the National Airspace System; and

(2) the non-movement area surveillance surface display systems and sensors supplement existing movement area systems and sensors at the selected airports established under other programs administered by the Administrator.

(b) Project Grants.—

(1) In general.— For purposes of carrying out the pilot program, the Administrator may make a project grant out of funds apportioned under paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) of section 47114(c) to not more than 5 eligible sponsors to acquire and install qualifying non-movement area surveillance surface display systems and sensors. The airports selected to participate in the pilot program shall have existing Administration movement area systems and airlines that are participants in Federal Aviation Administration’s airport collaborative decision-making process.

(2) Data exchange processes.— As part of the pilot program carried out under this section, the Administrator may establish data exchange processes to allow airport participation in the Administration’s airport collaborative decision-making process and fusion of the non-movement surveillance data with the Administration’s movement area systems.

(c) Sunset.— This section shall cease to be effective on October 1, 2028.

(d) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Non-movement area.— The term “non-movement area” means the portion of the airfield surface that is not under the control of air traffic control.

(2) Non-movement area surveillance surface display systems and sensors.— The term “non-movement area surveillance surface display systems and sensors” means a non-Federal surveillance system that uses on-airport sensors that track vehicles or aircraft that are equipped with transponders in the non-movement area.

(3) Qualifying non-movement area surveillance surface display system and sensors.— The term “qualifying non-movement area surveillance surface display system and sensors” means a non-movement area surveillance surface display system that—

(A) provides the required transmit and receive data formats consistent with the National Airspace System architecture at the appropriate service delivery point;

(B) is on-airport; and

(C) is airport operated.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 140(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s140/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3210](/us/stat/132/3210); amended [Pub. L. 118–15, div. B, title II, § 2202(i)](/us/pl/118/15/dB/tII/s2202/i), Sept. 30, 2023, [137 Stat. 83](/us/stat/137/83); [Pub. L. 118–34, title I, § 102(i)](/us/pl/118/34/tI/s102/i), Dec. 26, 2023, [137 Stat. 1113](/us/stat/137/1113); [Pub. L. 118–41, title I, § 102(i)](/us/pl/118/41/tI/s102/i), Mar. 8, 2024, [138 Stat. 21](/us/stat/138/21); [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 724](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s724), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/138/1267).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63) substituted “October 1, 2028” for “May 11, 2024”.

[Pub. L. 118–41](/us/pl/118/41) substituted “May 11, 2024” for “March 9, 2024”.

2023—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–34](/us/pl/118/34) substituted “March 9, 2024” for “January 1, 2024”.

[Pub. L. 118–15](/us/pl/118/15) substituted “January 1, 2024” for “October 1, 2023”.
