---
title: "§ 10613. Definition"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10613"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10613"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2953](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2953), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, § 2301(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII/s2301/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1795](/us/stat/116/1795); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1141](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1141), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3110](/us/stat/119/3110); [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s103/a), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 668](/us/stat/122/668).)"
---
# § 10613. Definition

##### § 10613. Definition

(a) In general Except as provided in subsection (b), in this subchapter, the term “violent offender” means a person who—

(1) is charged with or convicted of an offense that is punishable by a term of imprisonment exceeding one year, during the course of which offense or conduct—

(A) the person carried, possessed, or used a firearm or dangerous weapon;

(B) there occurred the death of or serious bodily injury to any person; or

(C) there occurred the use of force against the person of another, without regard to whether any of the circumstances described in subparagraph (A) or (B) is an element of the offense or conduct of which or for which the person is charged or convicted; or

(2) has 1 or more prior convictions for a felony crime of violence involving the use or attempted use of force against a person with the intent to cause death or serious bodily harm.

(b) Definition for purposes of juvenile drug courts For purposes of juvenile drug courts, the term “violent offender” means a juvenile who has been convicted of, or adjudicated delinquent for, a felony-level offense that—

(1) has as an element, the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another, or the possession or use of a firearm; or

(2) by its nature, involves a substantial risk that physical force against the person or property of another may be used in the course of committing the offense.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2953](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2953), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title II, § 2301(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tII/s2301/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1795](/us/stat/116/1795); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1141](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1141), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3110](/us/stat/119/3110); [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s103/a), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 668](/us/stat/122/668).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797u–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797u–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) inserted “that is punishable by a term of imprisonment exceeding one year” after “convicted of an offense” in introductory provisions.

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) substituted “a felony-level offense that” for “an offense that” in introductory provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction of 2008 Amendment

For construction of amendments and provisions set out as a note below by [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) and requirements for grants made under such amendments and note, see [section 60504 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s60504).

#### Period for Compliance

[Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 103(b)](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s103/b), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 668](/us/stat/122/668), provided that: “Notwithstanding section 2952(2) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3797u–1(2)](/us/usc/t42/s3797u–1/2)) [now [34 U.S.C. 10612(2)](/us/usc/t34/s10612/2)], each grantee under part EE of such Act [[34 U.S.C. 10611](/us/usc/t34/s10611) et seq.] shall have not more than 3 years from the date of the enactment of this Act [Apr. 9, 2008] to adopt the definition of ‘violent offender’ under such part, as amended by subsection (a) of this section [amending this section].”
