---
title: "§ 7478. Period before plan approval"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7478"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7478"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title I, § 168, as added [Pub. L. 95–95, title I, § 127(a)](/us/pl/95/95/tI/s127/a), Aug. 7, 1977, [91 Stat. 740](/us/stat/91/740); amended [Pub. L. 95–190, § 14(a)(52)](/us/pl/95/190/s14/a/52), Nov. 16, 1977, [91 Stat. 1402](/us/stat/91/1402).)"
---
# § 7478. Period before plan approval

##### § 7478. Period before plan approval

(a) Existing regulations to remain in effect Until such time as an applicable implementation plan is in effect for any area, which plan meets the requirements of this part to prevent significant deterioration of air quality with respect to any air pollutant, applicable regulations under this chapter prior to August 7, 1977, shall remain in effect to prevent significant deterioration of air quality in any such area for any such pollutant except as otherwise provided in subsection (b).

(b) Regulations deemed amended; construction commenced after June 1, 1975 If any regulation in effect prior to August 7, 1977, to prevent significant deterioration of air quality would be inconsistent with the requirements of section 7472(a), section 7473(b) or [section 7474(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7474/a), then such regulations shall be deemed amended so as to conform with such requirements. In the case of a facility on which construction was commenced (in accordance with the definition of “commenced” in [section 7479(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7479/2)) after June 1, 1975, and prior to August 7, 1977, the review and permitting of such facility shall be in accordance with the regulations for the prevention of significant deterioration in effect prior to August 7, 1977.

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title I, § 168, as added [Pub. L. 95–95, title I, § 127(a)](/us/pl/95/95/tI/s127/a), Aug. 7, 1977, [91 Stat. 740](/us/stat/91/740); amended [Pub. L. 95–190, § 14(a)(52)](/us/pl/95/190/s14/a/52), Nov. 16, 1977, [91 Stat. 1402](/us/stat/91/1402).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1977—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 95–190](/us/pl/95/190) substituted “(in accordance with the definition of ‘commenced’ in [section 7479(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7479/2))” for “in accordance with this definition”.
