---
title: "§ 6154. Reporting requirements"
identifier: "USC-T15-S6154"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section6154"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–10, § 4](/us/pl/108/10/s4), Mar. 11, 2003, [117 Stat. 557](/us/stat/117/557); [Pub. L. 110–188, § 3](/us/pl/110/188/s3), Feb. 15, 2008, [122 Stat. 637](/us/stat/122/637).)"
---
# § 6154. Reporting requirements

##### § 6154. Reporting requirements

(a) Biennial reports Not later than December 31, 2009, and biennially thereafter, the Federal Trade Commission, in consultation with the Federal Communications Commission, shall transmit a report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce that includes—

(1) the number of consumers who have placed their telephone numbers on the registry;

(2) the number of persons paying fees for access to the registry and the amount of such fees;

(3) the impact on the “do-not-call” registry of—

(A) the 5-year reregistration requirement;

(B) new telecommunications technology; and

(C) number portability and abandoned telephone numbers; and

(4) the impact of the established business relationship exception on businesses and consumers.

(b) Additional report Not later than December 31, 2009, the Federal Trade Commission, in consultation with the Federal Communications Commission, shall transmit a report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce that includes—

(1) the effectiveness of do-not-call outreach and enforcement efforts with regard to senior citizens and immigrant communities;

(2) the impact of the exceptions to the do-not-call registry on businesses and consumers, including an analysis of the effectiveness of the registry and consumer perceptions of the registry’s effectiveness; and

(3) the impact of abandoned calls made by predictive dialing devices on do-not-call enforcement.

*([Pub. L. 108–10, § 4](/us/pl/108/10/s4), Mar. 11, 2003, [117 Stat. 557](/us/stat/117/557); [Pub. L. 110–188, § 3](/us/pl/110/188/s3), Feb. 15, 2008, [122 Stat. 637](/us/stat/122/637).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2008—[Pub. L. 110–188](/us/pl/110/188) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to reports on regulatory coordination between Federal Trade Commission and Federal Communications Commission and reports on “do-not-call” registry for fiscal years 2003 through 2007.
