---
title: "§ 4592. Payment of sums due deceased Senators and Senate personnel"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4592"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4592"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Jan. 6, 1951, ch. 1213](/us/act/1951-01-06/ch1213), Ch. I, § 1, [64 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/64/1224); [Pub. L. 92–607](/us/pl/92/607), ch. V, § 503, Oct. 31, 1972, [86 Stat. 1505](/us/stat/86/1505).)"
---
# § 4592. Payment of sums due deceased Senators and Senate personnel

##### § 4592. Payment of sums due deceased Senators and Senate personnel

Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Senate, a person serving as a Senator or officer or employee whose compensation is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to be paid any unpaid balance of salary or other sums due such person at the time of his death. When any person dies while so serving, any such unpaid balance shall be paid by the disbursing officer of the Senate to the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries. If no designation has been made, such unpaid balance shall be paid to the widow or widower of that person, or if there is no widow or widower, to the next of kin or heirs at law of that person.

Section 50 of the Revised Statutes 11See References in Text note below. shall not be effective as to persons included within the foregoing.

*([Jan. 6, 1951, ch. 1213](/us/act/1951-01-06/ch1213), Ch. I, § 1, [64 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/64/1224); [Pub. L. 92–607](/us/pl/92/607), ch. V, § 503, Oct. 31, 1972, [86 Stat. 1505](/us/stat/86/1505).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 50 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in text, was classified to [section 38 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s38) and was repealed by [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 203(4)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s203/4), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/110/1725). See [section 5305 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5305).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 36a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s36a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1972—[Pub. L. 92–607](/us/pl/92/607) inserted provisions for designation of a beneficiary by Senators and officers and employees whose compensation is disbursed by Secretary of Senate to whom shall be paid any unpaid balance of salary or other sums due such person at time of death.
