---
title: "§ 7548. Study of particulate emissions from motor vehicles"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7548"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7548"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title II, § 214, as added [Pub. L. 95–95, title II, § 224(d)](/us/pl/95/95/tII/s224/d), Aug. 7, 1977, [91 Stat. 767](/us/stat/91/767).)"
---
# § 7548. Study of particulate emissions from motor vehicles

##### § 7548. Study of particulate emissions from motor vehicles

(a) Study and analysis

(1) The Administrator shall conduct a study concerning the effects on health and welfare of particulate emissions from motor vehicles or motor vehicle engines to which [section 7521 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7521) applies. Such study shall characterize and quantify such emissions and analyze the relationship of such emissions to various fuels and fuel additives.

(2) The study shall also include an analysis of particulate emissions from mobile sources which are not related to engine emissions (including, but not limited to tire debris, and asbestos from brake lining).

(b) Report to Congress The Administrator shall report to the Congress the findings and results of the study conducted under subsection (a) not later than two years after August 7, 1977. Such report shall also include recommendations for standards or methods to regulate particulate emissions described in paragraph (2) of subsection (a).

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title II, § 214, as added [Pub. L. 95–95, title II, § 224(d)](/us/pl/95/95/tII/s224/d), Aug. 7, 1977, [91 Stat. 767](/us/stat/91/767).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 214 of act July 14, 1955, was renumbered section 216 by [Pub. L. 95–95](/us/pl/95/95) and is classified to [section 7550 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7550).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Aug. 7, 1977, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 406(d) of Pub. L. 95–95](/us/pl/95/95/s406/d), set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7401).

#### Study on Suspended Particulate Matter

[Pub. L. 95–95, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/95/95/tIV/s403/a), Aug. 7, 1977, [91 Stat. 792](/us/stat/91/792), directed Administrator of EPA, not later than 18 months after Aug. 7, 1977, in cooperation with National Academy of Sciences, to study and report to Congress on relationship between size, weight, and chemical composition of suspended particulate matter and nature and degree of endangerment to public health or welfare presented by such particulate matter and availability of technology for controlling such particulate matter.
