---
title: "§ 1306. Reporting official action"
identifier: "USC-T49-S1306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section1306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tII/s201/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 934](/us/stat/109/934), § 706; renumbered § 1306, [Pub. L. 114–110, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/114/110/s3/a/3), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/129/2228).)"
---
# § 1306. Reporting official action

##### § 1306. Reporting official action

(a) Reports on Proceedings.— The Board shall make a written report of each proceeding conducted on complaint or on its own initiative and furnish a copy to each party to that proceeding. The report shall include the findings, conclusions, and the order of the Board and, if damages are awarded, the findings of fact supporting the award. The Board may have its reports published for public use. A published report of the Board is competent evidence of its contents.

(b) Special Rules for Matters Related to Rail Carriers.—

(1) When action of the Board in a matter related to a rail carrier is taken by the Board, an individual member of the Board, or another individual or group of individuals designated to take official action for the Board, the written statement of that action (including a report, order, decision and order, vote, notice, letter, policy statement, or regulation) shall indicate—

(A) the official designation of the individual or group taking the action;

(B) the name of each individual taking, or participating in taking, the action; and

(C) the vote or position of each participating individual.

(2) If an individual member of a group taking an official action referred to in paragraph (1) does not participate in it, the written statement of the action shall indicate that the member did not participate. An individual participating in taking an official action is entitled to express the views of that individual as part of the written statement of the action. In addition to any publication of the written statement, it shall be made available to the public under [section 552(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tII/s201/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 934](/us/stat/109/934), § 706; renumbered § 1306, [Pub. L. 114–110, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/114/110/s3/a/3), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/129/2228).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—[Pub. L. 114–110](/us/pl/114/110) renumbered [section 706 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s706) as this section.
