---
title: "§ 1961. Submission of agreements"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1961"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1961"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–219, title I, § 112](/us/pl/101/219/tI/s112), Dec. 12, 1989, [103 Stat. 1873](/us/stat/103/1873).)"
---
# § 1961. Submission of agreements

##### § 1961. Submission of agreements

Any agreement concluded with the Government of Palau pursuant to this joint resolution including the agreement entitled “Agreement Concerning Special Programs related to the Entry into Force of the Compact of Free Association Between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of Palau” signed on May 26, 1989, and any agreement which would amend, change, or terminate any such agreement, or portion thereof, shall be submitted to the Congress and may not take effect until after 30 days after the date on which such agreement is so submitted. An amendment or agreement substituting or in addition to the subsidiary agreement negotiated under section 212(a) of the Compact or its annex shall take effect only when approved by an Act of Congress.

*([Pub. L. 101–219, title I, § 112](/us/pl/101/219/tI/s112), Dec. 12, 1989, [103 Stat. 1873](/us/stat/103/1873).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This joint resolution, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 101–219](/us/pl/101/219), Dec. 12, 1989, [103 Stat. 1870](/us/stat/103/1870), which enacted this part and sections 1846 and 1972 of this title, amended sections 1615 and 1933 of this title and [section 10251 of Title 34](/us/usc/t34/s10251), Crime Control and Law Enforcement, and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 1905 of Title 44](/us/usc/t44/s1905), Public Printing and Documents. For complete classification of this joint resolution to the Code, see Tables.

The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Government of Palau, which is contained in [section 201 of Pub. L. 99–658](/us/pl/99/658/s201), set out as a note under [section 1931 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1931).

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1681).
