---
title: "§ 1003. Research, development, test, and evaluation efforts in furtherance of maritime and cargo security"
identifier: "USC-T6-S1003"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title6-section1003"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "6"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–347, title III, § 303](/us/pl/109/347/tIII/s303), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1921](/us/stat/120/1921).)"
---
# § 1003. Research, development, test, and evaluation efforts in furtherance of maritime and cargo security

##### § 1003. Research, development, test, and evaluation efforts in furtherance of maritime and cargo security

(a) In general The Secretary shall—

(1) direct research, development, testing, and evaluation efforts in furtherance of maritime and cargo security;

(2) coordinate with public and private sector entities to develop and test technologies, and process innovations in furtherance of these objectives; and

(3) evaluate such technologies.

(b) Coordination The Secretary, in coordination with the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, the Assistant Secretary for Policy, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, the Director for Domestic Nuclear Detection,11 See Change of Name note below. the Chief Financial Officer, and the heads of other appropriate offices or entities of the Department, shall ensure that—

(1) research, development, testing, and evaluation efforts funded by the Department in furtherance of maritime and cargo security are coordinated within the Department and with other appropriate Federal agencies to avoid duplication of efforts; and

(2) the results of such efforts are shared throughout the Department and with other Federal, State, and local agencies, as appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 109–347, title III, § 303](/us/pl/109/347/tIII/s303), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1921](/us/stat/120/1921).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Reference to the Director for Domestic Nuclear Detection deemed to be a reference to the Assistant Secretary for the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office, see [section 2(b)(1)(B) of Pub. L. 115–387](/us/pl/115/387/s2/b/1/B), set out as a note under [section 591 of this title](/us/usc/t6/s591).
