---
title: "§ 5512. Antiterrorism measures"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5512"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5512"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–604, title II, § 214](/us/pl/101/604/tII/s214), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3087](/us/stat/104/3087).)"
---
# § 5512. Antiterrorism measures

##### § 5512. Antiterrorism measures

(a) Guidelines for international aviation travelers For the purpose of notifying the public, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall develop and publish guidelines for thwarting efforts by international terrorists to enlist the unwitting assistance of international aviation travelers in terrorist activities. Notices concerning such guidelines shall be posted and prominently displayed domestically and abroad in international airports.

(b) Development of international standards The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Transportation in all appropriate fora, particularly talks and meetings related to international civil aviation, shall enter into negotiations with other nations for the establishment of international standards regarding guidelines for thwarting efforts by international terrorists to enlist the unwitting assistance of international aviation travelers in terrorist activities.

(c) Publication of rewards for terrorism-related information For the purpose of notifying the public, the Secretary of State shall publish the availability of United States Government rewards for information on international terrorist-related activities, including rewards available under section 2708(a) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title and chapter 204 of title 18. To the extent appropriate and feasible, notices making such publication shall be posted and prominently displayed domestically and abroad in international airports.

(d) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Transportation should take appropriate measures to utilize and train properly the officers and employees of other United States Government agencies who have functions at international airports in the United States and abroad in the detection of explosives and firearms which could be a threat to international civil aviation.

*([Pub. L. 101–604, title II, § 214](/us/pl/101/604/tII/s214), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3087](/us/stat/104/3087).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2708 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2708), referred to in subsec. (c), was amended generally by [Pub. L. 105–323, title I, § 101](/us/pl/105/323/tI/s101), Oct. 30, 1998, [112 Stat. 3029](/us/stat/112/3029), and, as so amended, provisions authorizing awards, formerly contained in section 2708(a), are now contained in section 2708(b).
