---
title: "§ 4595. Payment for unaccrued leave"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4595"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4595"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–197, title I, § 9](/us/pl/104/197/tI/s9), Sept. 16, 1996, [110 Stat. 2398](/us/stat/110/2398).)"
---
# § 4595. Payment for unaccrued leave

##### § 4595. Payment for unaccrued leave

(a) In general The Financial Clerk of the Senate is authorized to accept from an individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “the”. Senate a payment representing pay for any period of unaccrued annual leave used by that individual, as certified by the head of the employing office of the individual making the payment.

(b) Withholding The Financial Clerk of the Senate is authorized to withhold the amount referred to in subsection (a) from any amount which is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate and which is due to or on behalf of the individual described in subsection (a).

(c) Deposit Any payment accepted under this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

(d) “Head of the employing office” defined As used in this section, the term “head of the employing office” means any person with the final authority to appoint, hire, discharge, and set the terms, conditions, or privileges of the employment of an individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

(e) Applicability This section shall apply to fiscal year 1996 and each fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 104–197, title I, § 9](/us/pl/104/197/tI/s9), Sept. 16, 1996, [110 Stat. 2398](/us/stat/110/2398).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 60p of this title](/us/usc/t2/s60p) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1997, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1997.
