---
title: "§ 3218. Records and audits"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3218"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3218"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–136, title VI, § 608](/us/pl/89/136/tVI/s608), as added [Pub. L. 105–393, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/105/393/tI/s102/a), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3616](/us/stat/112/3616).)"
---
# § 3218. Records and audits

##### § 3218. Records and audits

(a) Recordkeeping and disclosure requirements Each recipient of assistance under this chapter shall keep such records as the Secretary shall require, including records that fully disclose—

(1) the amount and the disposition by the recipient of the proceeds of the assistance;

(2) the total cost of the project in connection with which the assistance is given or used;

(3) the amount and nature of the portion of the cost of the project provided by other sources; and

(4) such other records as will facilitate an effective audit.

(b) Access to books for examination and audit The Secretary, the Inspector General of the Department, and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any duly authorized representative, shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, and records of the recipient that relate to assistance received under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 89–136, title VI, § 608](/us/pl/89/136/tVI/s608), as added [Pub. L. 105–393, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/105/393/tI/s102/a), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3616](/us/stat/112/3616).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3218, [Pub. L. 89–136, title VII, § 708](/us/pl/89/136/tVII/s708), Aug. 26, 1965, [79 Stat. 573](/us/stat/79/573), authorized delegation of functions and transfer of funds, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 105–393, § 102(b)(3)](/us/pl/105/393/s102/b/3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Feb. 11, 1999, see [section 105 of Pub. L. 105–393](/us/pl/105/393/s105), set out as a note under [section 3121 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3121).
