---
title: "§ 11134. Form of reporting"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11134"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11134"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–660, title IV, § 424](/us/pl/99/660/tIV/s424), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3790](/us/stat/100/3790).)"
---
# § 11134. Form of reporting

##### § 11134. Form of reporting

(a) Timing and form The information required to be reported under sections 11131, 11132(a), and 11133 of this title shall be reported regularly (but not less often than monthly) and in such form and manner as the Secretary prescribes. Such information shall first be required to be reported on a date (not later than one year after November 14, 1986) specified by the Secretary.

(b) To whom reported The information required to be reported under sections 11131, 11132(a), and 11133(b) of this title shall be reported to the Secretary, or, in the Secretary’s discretion, to an appropriate private or public agency which has made suitable arrangements with the Secretary with respect to receipt, storage, protection of confidentiality, and dissemination of the information under this subchapter.

(c) Reporting to State licensing boards

(1) Malpractice payments Information required to be reported under [section 11131 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11131) shall also be reported to the appropriate State licensing board (or boards) in the State in which the medical malpractice claim arose.

(2) Reporting to other licensing boards Information required to be reported under [section 11133(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11133/b) shall also be reported to the appropriate State licensing board in the State in which the health care entity is located if it is not otherwise reported to such board under subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 99–660, title IV, § 424](/us/pl/99/660/tIV/s424), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3790](/us/stat/100/3790).)*
