---
title: "§ 701f–3. Expenditure in watersheds of funds appropriated for flood prevention purposes"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701f–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701f–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([May 23, 1955, ch. 43](/us/act/1955-05-23/ch43), title I, § 101, [69 Stat. 54](/us/stat/69/54); [Pub. L. 91–566, title I, § 101](/us/pl/91/566/tI/s101), Dec. 22, 1970, [84 Stat. 1484](/us/stat/84/1484).)"
---
# § 701f–3. Expenditure in watersheds of funds appropriated for flood prevention purposes

##### § 701f–3. Expenditure in watersheds of funds appropriated for flood prevention purposes

On and after May 23, 1955, the funds appropriated for flood prevention purposes may be expended in watersheds heretofore authorized by section 13 of the Flood Control Act of December 22, 1944, as amended, for necessary measures for the prevention of erosion, floodwater, and sediment damages, including gully control, floodwater detention, and floodway structures, in areas other than those over which the Department of the Army has jurisdiction and responsibility, and where the Army does have jurisdiction and responsibility, may enter into agreements with the Army to carry out jointly the measures heretofore set out and in areas where the Secretary is authorized to purchase land rights for structural measures, the Secretary in lieu of such acquisition, may reimburse local organizations for such proportionate share of the cost of land rights furnished by local organizations as the Secretary deems equitable in consideration of the national interest.

*([May 23, 1955, ch. 43](/us/act/1955-05-23/ch43), title I, § 101, [69 Stat. 54](/us/stat/69/54); [Pub. L. 91–566, title I, § 101](/us/pl/91/566/tI/s101), Dec. 22, 1970, [84 Stat. 1484](/us/stat/84/1484).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 13 of the Flood Control Act of December 22, 1944, referred to in text, is section 13 of [act Dec. 22, 1944, ch. 665](/us/act/1944-12-22/ch665), [58 Stat. 905](/us/stat/58/905), which was not classified to the Code. Such section 13 authorized the following works of improvement for run-off and waterflow retardation, and soil erosion prevention: Los Angeles River Basin; Santa Ynez River Watershed; Trinity River Basin (Texas); Little Tallahatchie River Watershed; Yazoo River Watershed; Coosa River Watershed (above Rome, Georgia); Little Sioux River Watershed; Potomac River Watershed; Buffalo Creek Watershed (New York); Colorado River Watershed (Texas), and Washita River Watershed.

#### Amendments

1970—[Pub. L. 91–566](/us/pl/91/566) empowered the Secretary, where the Army does have jurisdiction and responsibility, to enter into agreements with the Army to carry out jointly the measures heretofore set out and in areas where the Secretary is authorized to purchase land rights for structural measures, permitted the Secretary in lieu of such acquisition, to reimburse local organizations for such proportionate share of the cost of land rights furnished as the Secretary deems equitable in consideration of the national interest.
