---
title: "§ 11386b. Allocation of amounts and incentives for specific eligible activities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11386b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11386b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 428](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s428), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title III, § 1305(3)](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tIII/s1305/3), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1693](/us/stat/123/1693).)"
---
# § 11386b. Allocation of amounts and incentives for specific eligible activities

##### § 11386b. Allocation of amounts and incentives for specific eligible activities

(a) Minimum allocation for permanent housing for homeless individuals and families with disabilities

(1) In general From the amounts made available to carry out this part for a fiscal year, a portion equal to not less than 30 percent of the sums made available to carry out part B and this part, shall be used for permanent housing for homeless individuals with disabilities and homeless families that include such an individual who is an adult or a minor head of household if no adult is present in the household.

(2) Calculation In calculating the portion of the amount described in paragraph (1) that is used for activities that are described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall not count funds made available to renew contracts for existing projects under [section 11386c of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11386c).

(3) Adjustment The 30 percent figure in paragraph (1) shall be reduced proportionately based on need under [section 11386a(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11386a/b/2) in geographic areas for which subsection (e) applies in regard to subsection (d)(2)(A).

(4) Suspension The requirement established in paragraph (1) shall be suspended for any year in which funding available for grants under this part after making the allocation established in paragraph (1) would not be sufficient to renew for 1 year all existing grants that would otherwise be fully funded under this part.

(5) Termination The requirement established in paragraph (1) shall terminate upon a finding by the Secretary that since the beginning of 2001 at least 150,000 new units of permanent housing for homeless individuals and families with disabilities have been funded under this part.

(b) Set-aside for permanent housing for homeless families with children From the amounts made available to carry out this part for a fiscal year, a portion equal to not less than 10 percent of the sums made available to carry out part B and this part for that fiscal year shall be used to provide or secure permanent housing for homeless families with children.

(c) Treatment of amounts for permanent or transitional housing Nothing in this chapter may be construed to establish a limit on the amount of funding that an applicant may request under this part for acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation activities for the development of permanent housing or transitional housing.

(d) Incentives for proven strategies

(1) In general The Secretary shall provide bonuses or other incentives to geographic areas for using funding under this part for activities that have been proven to be effective at reducing homelessness generally, reducing homelessness for a specific subpopulation, or achieving homeless prevention and independent living goals as set forth in [section 11386a(b)(1)(F) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11386a/b/1/F).

(2) Rule of construction For purposes of this subsection, activities that have been proven to be effective at reducing homelessness generally or reducing homelessness for a specific subpopulation includes—

(A) permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless individuals and families;

(B) for homeless families, rapid rehousing services, short-term flexible subsidies to overcome barriers to rehousing, support services concentrating on improving incomes to pay rent, coupled with performance measures emphasizing rapid and permanent rehousing and with leveraging funding from mainstream family service systems such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and Child Welfare services; and

(C) any other activity determined by the Secretary, based on research and after notice and comment to the public, to have been proven effective at reducing homelessness generally, reducing homelessness for a specific subpopulation, or achieving homeless prevention and independent living goals as set forth in [section 11386a(b)(1)(F) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11386a/b/1/F).

(3) Balance of incentives for proven strategies To the extent practicable, in providing bonuses or incentives for proven strategies, the Secretary shall seek to maintain a balance among strategies targeting homeless individuals, families, and other subpopulations. The Secretary shall not implement bonuses or incentives that specifically discourage collaborative applicants from exercising their flexibility to serve families with children and youth defined as homeless under other Federal statutes.

(e) Incentives for successful implementation of proven strategies If any geographic area demonstrates that it has fully implemented any of the activities described in subsection (d) for all homeless individuals and families or for all members of subpopulations for whom such activities are targeted, that geographic area shall receive the bonus or incentive provided under subsection (d), but may use such bonus or incentive for any eligible activity under either [section 11383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11383) or paragraphs (4) and (5) of [section 11374(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11374/a) for homeless people generally or for the relevant subpopulation.

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 428](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s428), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title III, § 1305(3)](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tIII/s1305/3), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1693](/us/stat/123/1693).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 482](/us/stat/101/482), known as the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 11301 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11301) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 428 of Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77/s428) was renumbered section 434 and is classified to [section 11388 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11388).

Another prior [section 428 of Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77/s428), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 504](/us/stat/101/504); [Pub. L. 100–628, title IV](/us/pl/100/628/tIV), §§ 454, 455, Nov. 7, 1988, [102 Stat. 3236](/us/stat/102/3236); [Pub. L. 101–625, title VIII, § 833(a)](/us/pl/101/625/tVIII/s833/a), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4362](/us/stat/104/4362), which authorized appropriations for the supportive housing demonstration program, was classified to [section 11388 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11388) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–550, title XIV, § 1403(a)](/us/pl/102/550/tXIV/s1403/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4013](/us/stat/106/4013).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of 18 months after May 20, 2009, or 3 months after publication of certain final regulations by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see [section 1503 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1503), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 11302 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11302).
