---
title: "§ 8003. Contracts to provide congregate services programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8003"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8003"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–557, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/95/557/tIV/s404), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2106](/us/stat/92/2106).)"
---
# § 8003. Contracts to provide congregate services programs

##### § 8003. Contracts to provide congregate services programs

The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter referred to as the “Secretary”) is authorized to enter into contracts with local public housing agencies under the United States Housing Act of 1937 [[42 U.S.C. 1437](/us/usc/t42/s1437) et seq.] (hereinafter referred to as “public housing agencies”) and with nonprofit corporations, utilizing sums appropriated under this chapter, to provide congregate services programs for eligible project residents in order to promote and encourage maximum independence within a home environment for such residents capable of self-care with appropriate supportive congregate services. Each contract between the Secretary and a public housing agency or nonprofit corporation shall be for a term of not less than three years or more than five years and shall be renewable at the expiration of such term. Each public housing agency or nonprofit corporation entering into such a contract shall be reserved a sum equal to its total approved contract amount from the moneys authorized and appropriated for the fiscal year in which the notification date of funding approval falls.

*([Pub. L. 95–557, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/95/557/tIV/s404), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2106](/us/stat/92/2106).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The United States Housing Act of 1937, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896](/us/act/1937-09-01/ch896), as revised generally by [Pub. L. 93–383, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/93/383/tII/s201/a), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 653](/us/stat/88/653), which is classified generally to chapter 8 (§ 1437 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1437 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1437) and Tables.
