---
title: "§ 30112. Maintenance of website of election reports"
identifier: "USC-T52-S30112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section30112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–155, title V, § 502](/us/pl/107/155/tV/s502), Mar. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 115](/us/stat/116/115).)"
---
# § 30112. Maintenance of website of election reports

##### § 30112. Maintenance of website of election reports

(a) In general The Federal Election Commission shall maintain a central site on the Internet to make accessible to the public all publicly available election-related reports and information.

(b) Election-related report In this section, the term “election-related report” means any report, designation, or statement required to be filed under the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971.

(c) Coordination with other agencies Any Federal executive agency receiving election-related information which that agency is required by law to publicly disclose shall cooperate and coordinate with the Federal Election Commission to make such report available through, or for posting on, the site of the Federal Election Commission in a timely manner.

*([Pub. L. 107–155, title V, § 502](/us/pl/107/155/tV/s502), Mar. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 115](/us/stat/116/115).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 92–225](/us/pl/92/225), Feb. 7, 1972, [86 Stat. 3](/us/stat/86/3), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 438a of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s438a), The Congress, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was enacted as part of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, and not as a part of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Nov. 6, 2002, but not applicable with respect to runoff elections, recounts, or election contests resulting from elections held prior to Nov. 6, 2002, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 107–155](/us/pl/107/155/s402), set out as an Effective Date of 2002 Amendment; Regulations note under [section 30101 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s30101).
