---
title: "§ 2527. Nuclear test ban readiness program"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2527"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2527"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLII, § 4207](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLII/s4207), formerly [Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title XIV, § 1436](/us/pl/100/456/dA/tXIV/s1436), Sept. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 2075](/us/stat/102/2075); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXI, § 3152(i)](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXI/s3152/i), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2042](/us/stat/111/2042); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLII, § 4207](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLII/s4207), and amended [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(e)(8"
---
# § 2527. Nuclear test ban readiness program

##### § 2527. Nuclear test ban readiness program

(a) Establishment of program The Secretary of Energy shall establish and support a program to assure that the United States is in a position to maintain the reliability, safety, and continued deterrent effect of its stockpile of existing nuclear weapons designs in the event that a low-threshold or comprehensive ban on nuclear explosives testing is negotiated and ratified within the framework agreed to by the United States and the Russian Federation.

(b) Purposes of program The purposes of the program under subsection (a) shall be the following:

(1) To assure that the United States maintains a vigorous program of stockpile inspection and non-explosive testing so that, if a low-threshold or comprehensive test ban is entered into, the United States remains able to detect and identify potential problems in stockpile reliability and safety in existing designs of nuclear weapons.

(2) To assure that the specific materials, components, processes, and personnel needed for the remanufacture of existing nuclear weapons or the substitution of alternative nuclear warheads are available to support such remanufacture or substitution if such action becomes necessary in order to satisfy reliability and safety requirements under a low-threshold or comprehensive test ban agreement.

(3) To assure that a vigorous program of research in areas related to nuclear weapons science and engineering is supported so that, if a low-threshold or comprehensive test ban agreement is entered into, the United States is able to maintain a base of technical knowledge about nuclear weapons design and nuclear weapons effects.

(c) Conduct of program The Secretary of Energy shall carry out the program provided for in subsection (a). The program shall be carried out with the participation of representatives of the Department of Defense, the nuclear weapons production facilities, and the national security laboratories.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLII, § 4207](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLII/s4207), formerly [Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title XIV, § 1436](/us/pl/100/456/dA/tXIV/s1436), Sept. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 2075](/us/stat/102/2075); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXI, § 3152(i)](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXI/s3152/i), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2042](/us/stat/111/2042); renumbered [Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLII, § 4207](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLII/s4207), and amended [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(e)(8)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/e/8), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1759](/us/stat/117/1759); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3146(c)(4)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3146/c/4), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1074](/us/stat/127/1074).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 2121 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2121), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 108–136](/us/pl/108/136).

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(c)(4)(A)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/c/4/A)–(C), redesignated subsec. (b) as (a), substituted “Russian Federation” for “Soviet Union”, and struck out former subsec. (a) which related to congressional findings regarding negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union on nuclear test ban verification measures.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(c)(4)(B)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/c/4/B), (D), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and substituted “subsection (a)” for “subsection (b)” in introductory provisions. Former subsec. (b) redesignated (a).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(c)(4)(B)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/c/4/B), (E), redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and substituted “subsection (a)” for “subsection (b)” and “national security laboratories” for “national nuclear weapons laboratories”. Former subsec. (c) redesignated (b).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(c)(4)(B)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/c/4/B), redesignated subsec. (d) as (c).

2003—[Pub. L. 108–136, § 3141(e)(8)(D)](/us/pl/108/136/s3141/e/8/D), made technical amendment to section catchline.

1997—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) struck out heading and text of subsec. (e). Text read as follows: “The Secretary of Energy shall submit to Congress each year an unclassified report (with a classified annex as necessary) that describes the progress made to the date of the report in achieving the purposes of the program required to be established under subsection (b).”
