---
title: "§ 2183. Educational assistance: former captives"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2183"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2183"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–399, title VIII, § 806(d)(1)](/us/pl/99/399/tVIII/s806/d/1), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 888](/us/stat/100/888).)"
---
# § 2183. Educational assistance: former captives

##### § 2183. Educational assistance: former captives

(a) In order to respond to special circumstances, the Secretary concerned may pay (by advancement or reimbursement) a person who is a former captive for expenses incurred, while attending an educational or training institution, for—

(1) subsistence;

(2) tuition;

(3) fees;

(4) supplies;

(5) books;

(6) equipment; and

(7) other educational expenses.

(b) Except as provided in [section 2184 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2184), payments shall be available under this section for a person who is a former captive for education or training that occurs—

(1) after the termination of the status of that person as a captive; and

(2) on or before—

(A) the end of any semester or quarter (as appropriate) that begins before the end of the 10-year period beginning on the date on which the status of that person as a captive terminates; or

(B) if the educational or training institution is not operated on a semester or quarter system, the earlier of the end of any course that began before such date or the end of the 16-week period following that date.

(c) Payments shall be available under this section only to the extent that such payments are not otherwise authorized by law.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–399, title VIII, § 806(d)(1)](/us/pl/99/399/tVIII/s806/d/1), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 888](/us/stat/100/888).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to persons whose captive status begins after Jan. 21, 1981, see [section 806(d)(3) of Pub. L. 99–399](/us/pl/99/399/s806/d/3), set out as a note under 2181 of this title.
