---
title: "§ 4313. Statements by masters of vessels and owners of cargoes before granting clearances"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4313"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4313"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 13](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s13), [40 Stat. 424](/us/stat/40/424).)"
---
# § 4313. Statements by masters of vessels and owners of cargoes before granting clearances

##### § 4313. Statements by masters of vessels and owners of cargoes before granting clearances

During the present war, in addition to the facts required by [section 60105 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s60105), and sections forty-one hundred and ninety-eight,11 See References in Text note below. and forty-two hundred 1 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the Act of June fifteenth, nineteen hundred and seventeen, to be set out in the master’s and shipper’s manifests before clearance will be issued to vessels bound to foreign ports, the master or person in charge of any vessel, before departure of such vessel from port, shall deliver to the collector of customs of the district wherein such vessel is located a statement duly verified by oath that the cargo is not shipped or to be delivered in violation of this chapter, and the owners, shippers, or consignors of the cargo of such vessels shall in like manner deliver to the collector like statement under oath as to the cargo or the parts thereof laden or shipped by them, respectively, which statement shall contain also the names and addresses of the actual consignees of the cargo, or if the shipment is made to a bank or other broker, factor, or agent, the names and addresses of the persons who are the actual consignees on whose account the shipment is made. The master or person in control of the vessel shall, on reaching port of destination of any of the cargo, deliver a copy of the manifest and of the said master’s, owner’s shipper’s, or consignor’s statement to the American consular officer of the district in which the cargo is unladen.

*([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 13](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s13), [40 Stat. 424](/us/stat/40/424).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 4198 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in text, was classified to section 94 of former Title 46, Shipping, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–182, title VI, § 690(a)(8)](/us/pl/103/182/tVI/s690/a/8), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2223](/us/stat/107/2223).

Section 4200 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in text, was classified to section 92 of former Title 46, Shipping, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 87–826, § 3](/us/pl/87/826/s3), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 953](/us/stat/76/953).

The amendment by act June 15, 1917, referred to in text, probably means the amendment made by section 4 of title V of [act June 15, 1917, ch. 30](/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30), [40 Stat. 222](/us/stat/40/222).

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106), [40 Stat. 411](/us/stat/40/411), known as the Trading with the enemy Act, also known as the Trading with the Enemy Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4301 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 13 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

In text, “[section 60105 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s60105), and sections” substituted for “sections forty-one hundred and ninety-seven,” on authority of [Pub. L. 109–304, § 18(c)](/us/pl/109/304/s18/c), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/120/1709), which Act enacted [section 60105 of Title 46](/us/usc/t46/s60105), Shipping.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

All offices of collector of customs, comptroller of customs, surveyor of customs, and appraiser of merchandise in Bureau of Customs of Department of the Treasury to which appointments were required to be made by President with advice and consent of Senate ordered abolished with such offices to be terminated not later than Dec. 31, 1966, and functions vested by statute in officers, agencies, or employees of the Bureau of Customs of the Department of the Treasury transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1965, eff. May 25, 1965, 30 F.R. 7035, [79 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/79/1317), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
