---
title: "§ 15831. Public energy education program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15831"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15831"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 133](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s133), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 622](/us/stat/119/622).)"
---
# § 15831. Public energy education program

##### § 15831. Public energy education program

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall convene an organizational conference for the purpose of establishing an ongoing, self-sustaining national public energy education program.

(b) Participants The Secretary shall invite to participate in the conference individuals and entities representing all aspects of energy production and distribution, including—

(1) industrial firms;

(2) professional societies;

(3) educational organizations;

(4) trade associations; and

(5) governmental agencies.

(c) Purpose, scope, and structure

(1) Purpose The purpose of the conference shall be to establish an ongoing, self-sustaining national public energy education program to examine and recognize interrelationships between energy sources in all forms, including—

(A) conservation and energy efficiency;

(B) the role of energy use in the economy; and

(C) the impact of energy use on the environment.

(2) Scope and structure Taking into consideration the purpose described in paragraph (1), the participants in the conference invited under subsection (b) shall design the scope and structure of the program described in subsection (a).

(d) Technical assistance The Secretary shall provide technical assistance and other guidance necessary to carry out the program described in subsection (a).

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 133](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s133), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 622](/us/stat/119/622).)*
