---
title: "§ 8928. Support for Russian democracy and civil society organizations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8928"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8928"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–272, § 9](/us/pl/113/272/s9), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2964](/us/stat/128/2964).)"
---
# § 8928. Support for Russian democracy and civil society organizations

##### § 8928. Support for Russian democracy and civil society organizations

(a) In general The Secretary of State shall, directly or through nongovernmental or international organizations, such as the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, the National Endowment for Democracy, and related organizations—

(1) improve democratic governance, transparency, accountability, rule of law, and anti-corruption efforts in the Russian Federation;

(2) strengthen democratic institutions and political and civil society organizations in the Russian Federation;

(3) expand uncensored Internet access in the Russian Federation; and

(4) expand free and unfettered access to independent media of all kinds in the Russian Federation, including through increasing United States Government-supported broadcasting activities, and assist with the protection of journalists and civil society activists who have been targeted for free speech activities.

(b) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of State $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2018 to carry out the activities set forth in subsection (a).

(c) Strategy requirement Not later than 60 days after December 18, 2014, the President shall submit a strategy to carry out the activities set forth in subsection (a) to—

(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(d) Transparency requirements Any assistance provided pursuant to this section shall be conducted in as transparent of a manner as possible, consistent with the nature and goals of this section. The President shall provide a briefing on the activities funded by this section at the request of the committees specified in subsection (c).

*([Pub. L. 113–272, § 9](/us/pl/113/272/s9), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2964](/us/stat/128/2964).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under subsec. (c) of this section delegated to Secretary of State by Memorandum of President of the United States, Feb. 19, 2015, 80 F.R. 12071, set out as a note under [section 8925 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8925).
