---
title: "§ 1469a–1. Full amounts to be covered into treasuries of Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands; reductions prohibited"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1469a–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1469a–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–396, § 19(b)](/us/pl/99/396/s19/b), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 844](/us/stat/100/844).)"
---
# § 1469a–1. Full amounts to be covered into treasuries of Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands; reductions prohibited

##### § 1469a–1. Full amounts to be covered into treasuries of Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands; reductions prohibited

Pursuant to the terms of the Organic Act of Guam ([64 Stat. 384](/us/stat/64/384)), as amended [[48 U.S.C. 1421](/us/usc/t48/s1421) et seq.]; the Joint resolution to Approve the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of America ([90 Stat. 263](/us/stat/90/263)), as amended [[48 U.S.C. 1801](/us/usc/t48/s1801) et seq.]; the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act ([64 Stat. 319](/us/stat/64/319)), as amended and supplemented [[48 U.S.C. 731](/us/usc/t48/s731) et seq.]; and the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands (86 11 So in original. Probably should be “68”. Stat. 497), as amended and supplemented [[48 U.S.C. 1541](/us/usc/t48/s1541) et seq.] and an Act to authorize appropriations for certain insular areas of the United States, and for other purposes ([92 Stat. 487](/us/stat/92/487)), as amended; there shall be paid into the treasuries of Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands respectively the full amounts which are to be covered into the treasuries of said islands or paid pursuant to said laws as amended and supplemented and such amounts shall not be reduced, notwithstanding [Public Law 99–177](/us/pl/99/177), [Public Law 99–366](/us/pl/99/366), or any other provision of law.

*([Pub. L. 99–396, § 19(b)](/us/pl/99/396/s19/b), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 844](/us/stat/100/844).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Organic Act of Guam, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512](/us/act/1950-08-01/ch512), [64 Stat. 384](/us/stat/64/384), which is classified generally to chapter 8A (§ 1421 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1421 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1421) and Tables.

The Joint resolution to Approve the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of America, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241), Mar. 24, 1976, [90 Stat. 263](/us/stat/90/263), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1801 et seq.) of chapter 17 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act, referred to in text, is [act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145](/us/act/1917-03-02/ch145), [39 Stat. 951](/us/stat/39/951), also known as the Jones Act, which is classified principally to chapter 4 (§ 731 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 731 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s731) and Tables.

The Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, referred to in text, is [act July 22, 1954, ch. 558](/us/act/1954-07-22/ch558), [68 Stat. 497](/us/stat/68/497), which is classified principally to chapter 12 (§ 1541 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1541 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1541) and Tables.

The Act to authorize appropriations for certain insular areas of the United States, and for other purposes ([92 Stat. 487](/us/stat/92/487)), referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 95–348](/us/pl/95/348), Aug. 18, 1978, [92 Stat. 487](/us/stat/92/487). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

[Public Law 99–177](/us/pl/99/177), referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 99–177](/us/pl/99/177), Dec. 12, 1985, [99 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/99/1037), title II of which is known as the “Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985”, which enacted chapter 20 (§ 900 et seq.) and sections 654 to 656 of Title 2, The Congress, amended sections 602, 622, 631 to 642, and 651 to 653 of Title 2, sections 1104 to 1106, and 1109 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and [section 911 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s911), The Public Health and Welfare, repealed [section 661 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s661), enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 900 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s900) and [section 911 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s911), and amended provisions set out as a note under [section 621 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s621). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 900 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s900) and Tables.

[Public Law 99–366](/us/pl/99/366), referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 99–366](/us/pl/99/366), July 31, 1986, [100 Stat. 773](/us/stat/100/773), which is classified as a note under [section 904 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s904).
