---
title: "§ 4826. Transition provisions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4826"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4826"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1768](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1768), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2233](/us/stat/132/2233).)"
---
# § 4826. Transition provisions

##### § 4826. Transition provisions

(a) In general All delegations, rules, regulations, orders, determinations, licenses, or other forms of administrative action that have been made, issued, conducted, or allowed to become effective under the Export Administration Act of 1979 ([50 U.S.C. 4601](/us/usc/t50/s4601) et seq.) (as in effect on the day before August 13, 2018, and as continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.)), or the Export Administration Regulations, and are in effect as of August 13, 2018, shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, superseded, set aside, or revoked under the authority of this subchapter.

(b) Administrative and judicial proceedings This subchapter shall not affect any administrative or judicial proceedings commenced, or any applications for licenses made, under the Export Administration Act of 1979 (as in effect on the day before August 13, 2018, and as continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act [[50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.]), or the Export Administration Regulations.

(c) Certain determinations and references

(1) State sponsors of terrorism Any determination that was made under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (as in effect on the day before August 13, 2018, and as continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act [[50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.]) shall continue in effect as if the determination had been made under [section 4813(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4813/c).

(2) Reference Any reference in any other provision of law to a country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (as in effect on the day before August 13, 2018, and as continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act [[50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.]), is a government that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism shall be deemed to refer to a country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of [section 4813(c) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4813/c), is a government that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.

*([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1768](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1768), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2233](/us/stat/132/2233).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Export Administration Act of 1979, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 96–72](/us/pl/96/72), Sept. 29, 1979, [93 Stat. 503](/us/stat/93/503), which was classified principally to chapter 56 (§ 4601 et seq.) of this title and was substantially repealed by [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1766(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1766/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/132/2232). Section 6(j) of the Act was classified to [section 4605(j) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4605/j) prior to repeal. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in text, is title II of [Pub. L. 95–223](/us/pl/95/223), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/91/1626), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1701) and Tables.

This subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this part”, meaning part I (§§ 1751–1768) of subtitle B of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), known as the Export Controls Act of 2018, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of part I to the Code, see [section 1751 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1751), set out as a Short Title note under [section 4801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4801) and Tables.
