---
title: "§ 2686a. Appointment of Special Coordinator for water policy negotiations and water resources policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2686a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2686a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–138, title I, § 180](/us/pl/102/138/tI/s180), Oct. 28, 1991, [105 Stat. 682](/us/stat/105/682).)"
---
# § 2686a. Appointment of Special Coordinator for water policy negotiations and water resources policy

##### § 2686a. Appointment of Special Coordinator for water policy negotiations and water resources policy

(a) Designation The Secretary of State shall designate a Special Coordinator—

(1) to coordinate the United States Government response to international water resource disputes and needs;

(2) to represent the United States Government, whenever appropriate, in multilateral fora in discussions concerning access to fresh water; and

(3) to formulate United States policy to assist in the resolution of international problems posed by the lack of fresh water supplies.

(b) Other responsibilities The individual designated under subsection (a) may carry out the functions of subsection (a) in addition to other assigned responsibilities.

*([Pub. L. 102–138, title I, § 180](/us/pl/102/138/tI/s180), Oct. 28, 1991, [105 Stat. 682](/us/stat/105/682).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Authority of Secretary of State

Except as otherwise provided, Secretary of State to have and exercise any authority vested by law in any official or office of Department of State and references to such officials or offices deemed to refer to Secretary of State or Department of State, as appropriate, see [section 2651a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651a) and [section 161(d) of Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236/s161/d), set out as a note under [section 2651a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651a).
