---
title: "§ 4523. Deductions for delinquent indebtedness"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4523"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4523"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 648](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch648), title I, § 1, [48 Stat. 1024](/us/stat/48/1024); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 203(8)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s203/8), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/110/1726).)"
---
# § 4523. Deductions for delinquent indebtedness

##### § 4523. Deductions for delinquent indebtedness

Whenever a Representative, Delegate, Resident Commissioner, or a United States Senator, shall fail to pay any sum or sums due from such person to the House of Representatives or Senate, respectively, the appropriate committee or officer of the House of Representatives or Senate, as the case may be, having jurisdiction of the activity under which such debt arose, shall certify such delinquent sum or sums to the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives in the case of an indebtedness to the House of Representatives and to the Secretary of the Senate in the case of an indebtedness to the Senate, and such latter officials are authorized and directed, respectively, to deduct from any salary, mileage, or expense money due to any such delinquent such certified amounts or so much thereof as the balance or balances due such delinquent may cover. Sums so deducted by the Secretary of the Senate shall be disposed of by him in accordance with existing law, and sums so deducted by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives shall be disposed of by him in accordance with existing law.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 648](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch648), title I, § 1, [48 Stat. 1024](/us/stat/48/1024); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 203(8)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s203/8), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/110/1726).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 40a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s40a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) substituted “Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives in” for “Sergeant at Arms of the House in” and “Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives shall be” for “Sergeant at Arms of the House shall be paid to the Clerk of the House and”.
