---
title: "§ 1512a. Transportation of chemical munitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1512a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1512a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title I, § 143](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tI/s143), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2689](/us/stat/108/2689).)"
---
# § 1512a. Transportation of chemical munitions

##### § 1512a. Transportation of chemical munitions

(a) Prohibition of transportation across State lines The Secretary of Defense may not transport any chemical munition that constitutes part of the chemical weapons stockpile out of the State in which that munition is located on October 5, 1994, and, in the case of any such chemical munition not located in a State on October 5, 1994, may not transport any such munition into a State.

(b) Transportation of chemical munitions not in chemical weapons stockpile In the case of any chemical munitions that are discovered or otherwise come within the control of the Department of Defense and that do not constitute part of the chemical weapons stockpile, the Secretary of Defense may transport such munitions to the nearest chemical munitions stockpile storage facility that has necessary permits for receiving and storing such items if the transportation of such munitions to that facility—

(1) is considered by the Secretary of Defense to be necessary; and

(2) can be accomplished while protecting public health and safety.

*([Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title I, § 143](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tI/s143), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2689](/us/stat/108/2689).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995, and not as part of [Pub. L. 91–121, title IV, § 409](/us/pl/91/121/tIV/s409), Nov. 19, 1969, [83 Stat. 209](/us/stat/83/209), which comprises this chapter.
