---
title: "§ 10221. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10221"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10221"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5570](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5570), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3362](/us/stat/136/3362).)"
---
# § 10221. Definitions

##### § 10221. Definitions

(1) Admitted; alien The terms “admitted” and “alien” have the meanings given those terms in [section 1101 of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1101).

(2) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.

(3) Correspondent account; payable-through account The terms “correspondent account” and “payable-through account” have the meanings given those terms in [section 5318A of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5318A).

(4) Foreign financial institution The term “foreign financial institution” has the meaning of that term as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury by regulation.

(5) Foreign person The term “foreign person” means a person that is not a United States person.

(6) Knowingly The term “knowingly”, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

(7) Person The term “person” means an individual or entity.

(8) Support The term “support”, with respect to the Burmese military, means to knowingly have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of the Burmese military.

(9) United States person The term “United States person” means—

(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence;

(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; or

(C) any person in the United States.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5570](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5570), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3362](/us/stat/136/3362).)*
