---
title: "§ 51504. Use of training vessels"
identifier: "USC-T46-S51504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section51504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(b)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/b), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1577](/us/stat/120/1577); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. C, title XXXV, § 3502(b)](/us/pl/109/163/dC/tXXXV/s3502/b), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3548](/us/stat/119/3548); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. C, title XXXV, § 3523(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/181/dC/tXXXV/s3523/a/2), (b), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 599](/us/stat/122/599), 600; [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3505](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3505), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2308](/us/stat"
---
# § 51504. Use of training vessels

##### § 51504. Use of training vessels

(a) Applications To Use Vessels.— The Governor of a State sponsoring a State maritime academy (or the Governor of the State designated to conduct the affairs of a regional maritime academy) may apply in writing to the Secretary of Transportation to obtain the use of a training vessel for the academy. A vessel provided under this section remains the property of the United States Government.

(b) General Authority.— Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary may provide to a State maritime academy, for use as a training vessel, a suitable vessel under the control of the Secretary or made available to the Secretary under subsection (e). If a suitable vessel is not available, the Secretary may build and provide a suitable vessel.

(c) Approval Requirements.— The Secretary may provide a vessel under this section only if—

(1) an application has been made under subsection (a);

(2) the State maritime academy satisfies [section 51506(a) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s51506/a); and

(3) a suitable port will be available for the safe mooring of the vessel while the academy is using the vessel.

(d) Preparation and Maintenance.— A vessel provided under this section shall be—

(1) repaired, reconditioned, and equipped (with all apparel, charts, books, and instruments of navigation) as necessary for use as a training vessel; and

(2) maintained in good repair by the Secretary.

(e) Agency Vessels.— An agency may provide to the Secretary, for use by a State maritime academy, a vessel (including equipment) that—

(1) is suitable for training purposes; and

(2) can be provided without detriment to the service to which the vessel is assigned.

(f) Fuel Costs.—

(1) In general.— Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall pay to each State maritime academy the costs of fuel used by a vessel provided under this section while used for training.

(2) Maximum amounts.— The amount of the payment to a State maritime academy under paragraph (1) may not exceed—

(A) $100,000 for fiscal year 2006;

(B) $200,000 for fiscal year 2007; and

(C) $300,000 for fiscal year 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter.

(g) Vessel Sharing.—

(1) In general.— Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, the Secretary, acting through the Maritime Administrator, shall upon consultation with the maritime academies, and to the extent feasible with the consent of the maritime academies, implement a program of training vessel sharing, requiring maritime academies to share training vessel 11 So in original. Probably should be “vessels”. provided by the Secretary among maritime academies, as necessary to ensure that training needs of each academy are met.

(2) Program of vessel sharing.— For purposes of this subsection, a program of vessel sharing shall include—

(A) ways to maximize the available underway training available in the fleet of training vessels;

(B) coordinating the dates and duration of training cruises with the academic calendars of maritime academies;

(C) coordinating academic programs designed to be implemented aboard training vessels among maritime academies; and

(D) identifying ways to minimize costs.

(3) Additional funding.— Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Maritime Administrator may provide additional funding to State maritime academies during periods of limited training vessel capacity, for costs associated with training vessel sharing.

(4) Evaluation.— Not later than 30 days after the beginning of each fiscal year, the Secretary, acting through the Maritime Administrator, shall evaluate the vessel sharing program under this subsection to determine the optimal utilization of State maritime training vessels, and modify the program as necessary to improve utilization.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(b)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/b), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1577](/us/stat/120/1577); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. C, title XXXV, § 3502(b)](/us/pl/109/163/dC/tXXXV/s3502/b), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3548](/us/stat/119/3548); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. C, title XXXV, § 3523(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/181/dC/tXXXV/s3523/a/2), (b), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 599](/us/stat/122/599), 600; [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3505](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3505), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2308](/us/stat/132/2308).)*

In subsection (a), the reference to territories is omitted as unnecessary because of the definition of “State” in chapter 1 of the revised title.

In subsection (e), before paragraph (1), the word “agency” is substituted for “department or agency of the United States” because of the definition of “agency” in chapter 1 of the revised title.

In subsection (g), the 1st–3d sentences of [section 4 of Public Law 101–115](/us/pl/101/115/s4) are omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 51504(a) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(1) (A)(ii), (v). | June 29, 1936, ch. 858, title XIII, § 1304(c)(1), (2), as added Pub. L. 96–453, § 2, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2003. |
| 51504(b) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(1) (A) (1st sentence words before “meeting the requirements”). |  |
| 51504(c)(1) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(1) (A)(ii). |  |
| 51504(c)(2) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(1) (A) (1st sentence words beginning with “meeting the requirements”). |  |
| 51504(c)(3) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(1) (A)(iii). |  |
| 51504(d)(1) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(1) (A)(i). |  |
| 51504(d)(2) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(1) (A)(iv). |  |
| 51504(e) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(1) (B). |  |
| 51504(f) | 46 App.:1295c(c)(2). |  |
| 51504(g) | 46 App.:1295c note. | Pub. L. 101–115, § 4, Oct. 13, 1989, 103 Stat. 692; Pub. L. 101–595, title VII, § 705, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 2994. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, referred to in subsec. (g)(1), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), which was approved Aug. 13, 2018.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) amended subsec. (g) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (g) related to removing vessels from service and vessel sharing.

2008—[Pub. L. 110–181, § 3523(b)](/us/pl/110/181/s3523/b), repealed [Pub. L. 109–163, § 3502(b)](/us/pl/109/163/s3502/b). See 2006 Amendment note below.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 110–181, § 3523(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/181/s3523/a/2), incorporated the substance of the amendment by [Pub. L. 109–163, § 3502(b)](/us/pl/109/163/s3502/b), by amending heading and text of subsec. (f) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary may pay to a State maritime academy the costs of fuel used by a vessel provided under this section while used for training.” See 2006 Amendment note below and [section 18(a) of Pub. L. 109–304](/us/pl/109/304/s18/a), set out as a Legislative Purpose and Construction note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s101).

2006—[Pub. L. 109–163, § 3502(b)](/us/pl/109/163/s3502/b), which directed the amendment of section 1295c(c)(2) of the former Appendix to this title from which subsec. (f) of this section was derived, was repealed by [Pub. L. 110–181, § 3523(b)](/us/pl/110/181/s3523/b). See 2008 Amendment note for subsec. (f) and Historical and Revision notes above.
