---
title: "§ 8514a. Imposition of sanctions with respect to the transfer of goods or technologies to Iran that are likely to be used to commit human rights abuses"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8514a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8514a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–195, title I, § 105A](/us/pl/111/195/tI/s105A), as added [Pub. L. 112–158, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/112/158/tIV/s402/a), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1252](/us/stat/126/1252).)"
---
# § 8514a. Imposition of sanctions with respect to the transfer of goods or technologies to Iran that are likely to be used to commit human rights abuses

##### § 8514a. Imposition of sanctions with respect to the transfer of goods or technologies to Iran that are likely to be used to commit human rights abuses

(a) In general The President shall impose sanctions in accordance with subsection (c) with respect to each person on the list required by subsection (b).

(b) List

(1) In general Not later than 90 days after August 10, 2012, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of persons that the President determines have knowingly engaged in an activity described in paragraph (2) on or after August 10, 2012.

(2) Activity described

(A) In general A person engages in an activity described in this paragraph if the person—

(i) transfers, or facilitates the transfer of, goods or technologies described in subparagraph (C) to Iran, any entity organized under the laws of Iran or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran, or any national of Iran, for use in or with respect to Iran; or

(ii) provides services (including services relating to hardware, software, and specialized information, and professional consulting, engineering, and support services) with respect to goods or technologies described in subparagraph (C) after such goods or technologies are transferred to Iran.

(B) Applicability to contracts and other agreements A person engages in an activity described in subparagraph (A) without regard to whether the activity is carried out pursuant to a contract or other agreement entered into before, on, or after August 10, 2012.

(C) Goods or technologies described Goods or technologies described in this subparagraph are goods or technologies that the President determines are likely to be used by the Government of Iran or any of its agencies or instrumentalities (or by any other person on behalf of the Government of Iran or any of such agencies or instrumentalities) to commit serious human rights abuses against the people of Iran, including—

(i) firearms or ammunition (as those terms are defined in [section 921 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s921)), rubber bullets, police batons, pepper or chemical sprays, stun grenades, electroshock weapons, tear gas, water cannons, or surveillance technology; or

(ii) sensitive technology (as defined in [section 8515(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8515/c)).

(3) Special rule to allow for termination of sanctionable activity The President shall not be required to include a person on the list required by paragraph (1) if the President certifies in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that—

(A) the person is no longer engaging in, or has taken significant verifiable steps toward stopping, the activity described in paragraph (2) for which the President would otherwise have included the person on the list; and

(B) the President has received reliable assurances that the person will not knowingly engage in any activity described in paragraph (2) in the future.

(4) Updates of list The President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an updated list under paragraph (1)—

(A) each time the President is required to submit an updated list to those committees under [section 8514(b)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8514/b/2/A); and

(B) as new information becomes available.

(5) Form of report; public availability

(A) Form The list required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.

(B) Public availability The unclassified portion of the list required by paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public and posted on the websites of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State.

(c) Application of sanctions

(1) In general Subject to paragraph (2), the President shall impose sanctions described in [section 8514(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8514/c) with respect to a person on the list required by subsection (b).

(2) Transfers to Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps In the case of a person on the list required by subsection (b) for transferring, or facilitating the transfer of, goods or technologies described in subsection (b)(2)(C) to Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps, or providing services with respect to such goods or technologies after such goods or technologies are transferred to Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps, the President shall—

(A) impose sanctions described in [section 8514(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8514/c) with respect to the person; and

(B) impose such other sanctions from among the sanctions described in section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 ([Public Law 104–172](/us/pl/104/172); [50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) note) as the President determines appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 111–195, title I, § 105A](/us/pl/111/195/tI/s105A), as added [Pub. L. 112–158, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/112/158/tIV/s402/a), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1252](/us/stat/126/1252).)*
