---
title: "§ 10151. Name of program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10151"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10151"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 500](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s500), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6091(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6091/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4329](/us/stat/102/4329); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/a/2/B), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/119/3094).)"
---
# § 10151. Name of program

##### § 10151. Name of program

(a) In general The grant program established under this part shall be known as the “Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program”.

(b) References to former programs

(1) Any reference in a law, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Programs, or to the Local Government Law Enforcement Block Grants program, shall be deemed to be a reference to the grant program referred to in subsection (a).

(2) Any reference in a law, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to section 506 of this Act as such section was in effect on the date of the enactment of the Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2006 through 2009,11 See References in Text note below. shall be deemed to be a reference to section 505(a) of this Act as amended by the Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2006 through 2009.1

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 500](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s500), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6091(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6091/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4329](/us/stat/102/4329); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/a/2/B), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/119/3094).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197), known as the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968. Former section 506 of the Act was classified to [section 3756 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3756), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/a/1), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/119/3094). Section 505(a) of the Act is classified to [section 10156(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10156/a). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

The Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2006 through 2009, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), probably means the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 2960](/us/stat/119/2960), which repealed former [section 3756 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3756) and enacted [section 10156 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10156). See note above.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3750 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3750), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) substituted “Name of program” for “Name of programs” in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The grant programs established under this subchapter shall be known as the ‘Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Programs’.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

[Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(d)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/d), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3102](/us/stat/119/3102), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [see Tables for classification] shall apply with respect to the first fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 5, 2006] and each fiscal year thereafter.”
