---
title: "§ 308. United States Customs Service"
identifier: "USC-T31-S308"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section308"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 880](/us/stat/96/880).)"
---
# § 308. United States Customs Service

##### § 308. United States Customs Service

The United States Customs Service, established under [section 1 of the Act of March 3, 1927](/us/act/1927-03-03/s1) ([19 U.S.C. 2071](/us/usc/t19/s2071)), is a service in the Department of the Treasury.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 880](/us/stat/96/880).)*

The section is included to provide in subchapter I of chapter 3 of the revised title a complete list of the organizational units established by law that are in the Department of the Treasury or are subject to the direction and supervision of the Secretary of the Treasury.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 308 | (no source). |  |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Change of Name

Bureau of Customs redesignated United States Customs Service by Treasury Department Order 165–23, Apr. 4, 1973, eff. Aug. 1, 1973, 38 F.R. 13037.
