---
title: "§ 3406. Trilateral scientific and technological cooperation by Egypt, Israel, and United States"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3406"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3406"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–35, § 8](/us/pl/96/35/s8), July 20, 1979, [93 Stat. 92](/us/stat/93/92); [Pub. L. 97–113, title VII, § 734(a)(4)](/us/pl/97/113/tVII/s734/a/4), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1560](/us/stat/95/1560).)"
---
# § 3406. Trilateral scientific and technological cooperation by Egypt, Israel, and United States

##### § 3406. Trilateral scientific and technological cooperation by Egypt, Israel, and United States

(a) Preparation for United States participation It is the sense of the Congress that, in order to continue to build the structure of peace in the Middle East, the United States should be prepared to participate, at an appropriate time, in trilateral cooperative projects of a scientific and technological nature involving Egypt, Israel, and the United States.

(b) Plan development Therefore, the President shall develop a plan to guide the participation of both United States Government agencies and private institutions in such projects. This plan shall identify—

(1) potential projects in a variety of areas appropriate for scientific and technological cooperation by the three countries, including agriculture, health, energy, the environment, education, and water resources;

(2) the resources which are available or which would be needed to implement such projects; and

(3) the means by which such projects would be implemented.

*([Pub. L. 96–35, § 8](/us/pl/96/35/s8), July 20, 1979, [93 Stat. 92](/us/stat/93/92); [Pub. L. 97–113, title VII, § 734(a)(4)](/us/pl/97/113/tVII/s734/a/4), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1560](/us/stat/95/1560).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1981—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 97–113](/us/pl/97/113) struck out subsec. (c) which required Presidential report to Congress no later than twelve months after July 20, 1979, respecting trilateral cooperative projects between Egypt, Israel, and the United States.
