---
title: "§ 3214. Mailing privilege of former President; surviving spouse of former President"
identifier: "USC-T39-S3214"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section3214"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 754](/us/stat/84/754); [Pub. L. 93–191, § 4(a)](/us/pl/93/191/s4/a), Dec. 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 742](/us/stat/87/742); [Pub. L. 103–123, title IV, § 6(b)](/us/pl/103/123/tIV/s6/b), Oct. 28, 1993, [107 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/107/1246); [Pub. L. 105–61, title IV, § 409(b)](/us/pl/105/61/tIV/s409/b), Oct. 10, 1997, [111 Stat. 1299](/us/stat/111/1299).)"
---
# § 3214. Mailing privilege of former President; surviving spouse of former President

##### § 3214. Mailing privilege of former President; surviving spouse of former President

A former President and the surviving spouse of a former President may send nonpolitical mail within the United States and its territories and possessions as franked mail. Such mail of a former President and of the surviving spouse of a former President marked “Postage and Fees Paid” in the manner prescribed by the Postal Service shall be accepted by the Postal Service for transmission in the international mails.

*([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 754](/us/stat/84/754); [Pub. L. 93–191, § 4(a)](/us/pl/93/191/s4/a), Dec. 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 742](/us/stat/87/742); [Pub. L. 103–123, title IV, § 6(b)](/us/pl/103/123/tIV/s6/b), Oct. 28, 1993, [107 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/107/1246); [Pub. L. 105–61, title IV, § 409(b)](/us/pl/105/61/tIV/s409/b), Oct. 10, 1997, [111 Stat. 1299](/us/stat/111/1299).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1997—[Pub. L. 105–61](/us/pl/105/61) struck out subsec. (a) designation, substituted “A former President” for “Subject to subsection (b), a former President”, and struck out subsec. (b) which read as follows: “Subsection (a) shall cease to apply—

“(1) 5 years after the effective date of this subsection, in the case of any individual who, on such effective date—

“(A) is a former President (including any individual who might become entitled to the mailing privilege under subsection (a) as the surviving spouse of such a former President); or

“(B) is the surviving spouse of a former President; and

“(2) 4 years and 6 months after the expiration of the period for which services and facilities are authorized to be provided under section 4 of the Presidential Transition Act of 1963 ([3 U.S.C. 102](/us/usc/t3/s102) note), in the case of an individual who becomes a former President after such effective date (including any surviving spouse of such individual, as described in the parenthetical matter in paragraph (1)(A)).”

1993—[Pub. L. 103–123](/us/pl/103/123) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), substituted “Subject to subsection (b), a former” for “A former”, and added subsec. (b).

1973—[Pub. L. 93–191](/us/pl/93/191) limited the mailing privilege to nonpolitical mail, extended the privilege to surviving spouse of former President and provided for acceptance of such mail marked “Postage and Fees Paid” by the Postal Service for transmission in the international mails.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1993 Amendment

[Pub. L. 103–123, title IV, § 6(c)](/us/pl/103/123/tIV/s6/c), Oct. 28, 1993, [107 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/107/1247), provided that: “The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) [amending this section and provisions set out as a note under [section 102 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s102), The President] shall take effect on October 1, 1993.”

#### Effective Date of 1973 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–191](/us/pl/93/191) effective Dec. 27, 1972, see [section 14 of Pub. L. 93–191](/us/pl/93/191/s14), set out as a note under [section 3210 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s3210).

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–9 of the Board of Governors. See [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375/s15/a), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s101).
