---
title: "§ 4239. Performance reports"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4239"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4239"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 820](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s820), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2893](/us/stat/114/2893), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2987](/us/stat/114/2987).)"
---
# § 4239. Performance reports

##### § 4239. Performance reports

(a) Requirement For each fiscal year, the Director shall—

(1) review the progress the Department has made during that fiscal year in carrying out the housing plan submitted by the Department under [section 4223 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4223); and

(2) submit a report to the Secretary (in a form acceptable to the Secretary) describing the conclusions of the review.

(b) Content Each report submitted under this section for a fiscal year shall—

(1) describe the use of grant amounts provided to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands for that fiscal year;

(2) assess the relationship of the use referred to in paragraph (1) to the goals identified in the housing plan;

(3) indicate the programmatic accomplishments of the Department; and

(4) describe the manner in which the Department would change its housing plan submitted under [section 4223 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4223) as a result of its experiences.

(c) Submissions The Secretary shall—

(1) establish a date for submission of each report under this section;

(2) review each such report; and

(3) with respect to each such report, make recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

(d) Public availability

(1) Comments by beneficiaries In preparing a report under this section, the Director shall make the report publicly available to the beneficiaries of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 ([42 Stat. 108](/us/stat/42/108) et seq.) and give a sufficient amount of time to permit those beneficiaries to comment on that report before it is submitted to the Secretary (in such manner and at such time as the Director may determine).

(2) Summary of comments The report shall include a summary of any comments received by the Director from beneficiaries under paragraph (1) regarding the program to carry out the housing plan.

*([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 820](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s820), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2893](/us/stat/114/2893), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2987](/us/stat/114/2987).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is [act July 9, 1921, ch. 42](/us/act/1921-07-09/ch42), [42 Stat. 108](/us/stat/42/108), which was classified generally to sections 691 to 718 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions, and was omitted from the Code.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 106–568, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/s203), and [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513), enacted identical sections 820 of [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330). This section is based on the text of [section 820 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s820), as added by [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513).
