---
title: "§ 12602a. Certifications of successful completion of terms of service"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12602a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12602a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 146A](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s146A), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1403](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1403), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1514](/us/stat/123/1514).)"
---
# § 12602a. Certifications of successful completion of terms of service

##### § 12602a. Certifications of successful completion of terms of service

(a) Certifications In making any authorized disbursement from the National Service Trust in regard to an eligible individual (including disbursement for a designated individual, as defined in [section 12604(f)(8) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12604/f/8), due to the service of an eligible individual) under [section 12602 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12602) who served in an approved national service position, an approved summer of service position, or an approved silver scholar position, the Corporation shall rely on a certification. The certification shall be made by the entity that selected the individual for and supervised the individual in the approved national service position in which such individual successfully completed a required term of service, in a national service program.

(b) Effect of erroneous certifications If the Corporation determines that the certification under subsection (a) is erroneous or incorrect, the Corporation shall assess against the national service program a charge for the amount of any associated payment or potential payment from the National Service Trust. In assessing the amount of the charge, the Corporation shall consider the full facts and circumstances surrounding the erroneous or incorrect certification.

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 146A](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s146A), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1403](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1403), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1514](/us/stat/123/1514).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).
