---
title: "§ 300ff–132. Routine notifications with respect to airborne infectious diseases in victims assisted"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300ff–132"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300ff–132"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2695A, as added [Pub. L. 111–87, § 13](/us/pl/111/87/s13), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2898](/us/stat/123/2898).)"
---
# § 300ff–132. Routine notifications with respect to airborne infectious diseases in victims assisted

##### § 300ff–132. Routine notifications with respect to airborne infectious diseases in victims assisted

(a) Routine notification of designated officer

(1) Determination by treating facility If a victim of an emergency is transported by emergency response employees to a medical facility and the medical facility makes a determination that the victim has an airborne infectious disease, the medical facility shall notify the designated officer of the emergency response employees who transported the victim to the medical facility of the determination.

(2) Determination by facility ascertaining cause of death If a victim of an emergency is transported by emergency response employees to a medical facility and the victim dies at or before reaching the medical facility, the medical facility ascertaining the cause of death shall notify the designated officer of the emergency response employees who transported the victim to the initial medical facility of any determination by the medical facility that the victim had an airborne infectious disease.

(b) Requirement of prompt notification With respect to a determination described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a), the notification required in each of such paragraphs shall be made as soon as is practicable, but not later than 48 hours after the determination is made.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2695A, as added [Pub. L. 111–87, § 13](/us/pl/111/87/s13), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2898](/us/stat/123/2898).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as if enacted on Sept. 30, 2009, see [section 2(a)(3)(B) of Pub. L. 111–87](/us/pl/111/87/s2/a/3/B), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment; Revival of Section note under [section 300ff–11 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–11).
