---
title: "§ 300d–42. Preferences in making grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300d–42"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300d–42"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XII, § 1242, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/102/321/tVI/s601), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 434](/us/stat/106/434); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3505(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3505/a/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 523](/us/stat/124/523).)"
---
# § 300d–42. Preferences in making grants

##### § 300d–42. Preferences in making grants

(a) Substantial uncompensated care awards

(1) In general The Secretary shall establish an award basis for each eligible trauma center for grants under [section 300d–41(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/1) according to the percentage described in paragraph (2), subject to the requirements of [section 300d–41(b)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/b/3).

(2) Percentages The applicable percentages are as follows:

(A) With respect to a category A trauma center, 100 percent of the uncompensated care costs.

(B) With respect to a category B trauma center, not more than 75 percent of the uncompensated care costs.

(C) With respect to a category C trauma center, not more than 50 percent of the uncompensated care costs.

(b) Core mission awards

(1) 11 So in original. No par. (2) has been enacted. In general In awarding grants under [section 300d–41(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/2), the Secretary shall—

(A) reserve 25 percent of the amount allocated for core mission awards for Level III and Level IV trauma centers; and

(B) reserve 25 percent of the amount allocated for core mission awards for large urban Level I and II trauma centers—

(i) that have at least 1 graduate medical education fellowship in trauma or trauma related specialties for which demand is exceeding supply;

(ii) for which—

(I) annual uncompensated care costs exceed $10,000,000; or

(II) at least 20 percent of emergency department visits are charity or self-pay or Medicaid patients; and

(iii) that are not eligible for substantial uncompensated care awards under [section 300d–41(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/1).

(c) Emergency awards In awarding grants under [section 300d–41(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/3), the Secretary shall—

(1) give preference to any application submitted by a trauma center that provides trauma care in a geographic area in which the availability of trauma care has significantly decreased or will significantly decrease if the center is forced to close or downgrade service or growth in demand for trauma services exceeds capacity; and

(2) reallocate any emergency awards funds not obligated due to insufficient, or a lack of qualified, applications to the significant uncompensated care award program.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XII, § 1242, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/102/321/tVI/s601), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 434](/us/stat/106/434); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3505(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3505/a/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 523](/us/stat/124/523).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) added subsecs. (a) to (c) and struck out former subsecs. (a) and (b) which related to preferences in making grants and preferences for certain applications.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 10, 1992, with programs making awards providing financial assistance in fiscal year 1993 and subsequent years effective for awards made on or after Oct. 1, 1992, see section 801(b), (d)(1) of [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 236 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s236).
