---
title: "§ 2349aa–8. Prohibition on imports from and exports to Libya"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2349aa–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2349aa–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–83, title V, § 504](/us/pl/99/83/tV/s504), Aug. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 221](/us/stat/99/221).)"
---
# § 2349aa–8. Prohibition on imports from and exports to Libya

##### § 2349aa–8. Prohibition on imports from and exports to Libya

(a) Prohibition on imports Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may prohibit any article grown, produced, extracted, or manufactured in Libya from being imported into the United States.

(b) Prohibition on exports Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may prohibit any goods or technology, including technical data or other information, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or exported by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, from being exported to Libya.

(c) “United States” defined For purposes of this section, the term “United States”, when used in a geographical sense, includes territories and possessions of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 99–83, title V, § 504](/us/pl/99/83/tV/s504), Aug. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 221](/us/stat/99/221).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1985, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1985, see [section 1301 of Pub. L. 99–83](/us/pl/99/83/s1301), set out as an Effective Date of 1985 Amendment note under [section 2151–1 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151–1).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
