---
title: "§ 1713. Machine-readable visa fees"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–173, title I, § 103](/us/pl/107/173/tI/s103), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 547](/us/stat/116/547); [Pub. L. 115–31, div. J, title VII, § 7081(b)](/us/pl/115/31/dJ/tVII/s7081/b), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 716](/us/stat/131/716).)"
---
# § 1713. Machine-readable visa fees

##### § 1713. Machine-readable visa fees

(a) Omitted

(b) Fee amount The machine-readable visa fee charged by the Department of State shall be the higher of $65 or the cost of the machine-readable visa service, as determined by the Secretary of State after conducting a study of the cost of such service.

(c) Surcharge The Department of State is authorized to charge a surcharge of $10, in addition to the machine-readable visa fee, for issuing a machine-readable visa in a nonmachine-readable passport.

(d) Availability of collected fees Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts collected as fees described in this section shall be deposited in the Consular and Border Security Programs account to recover costs of providing consular services. Amounts so credited shall be available, until expended, for the same purposes as the appropriation to which credited.

*([Pub. L. 107–173, title I, § 103](/us/pl/107/173/tI/s103), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 547](/us/stat/116/547); [Pub. L. 115–31, div. J, title VII, § 7081(b)](/us/pl/115/31/dJ/tVII/s7081/b), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 716](/us/stat/131/716).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 103 of Pub. L. 107–173](/us/pl/107/173/s103). Subsec. (a) of [section 103 of Pub. L. 107–173](/us/pl/107/173/s103) amended provisions set out as a note under [section 1351 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1351).

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 115–31](/us/pl/115/31) substituted “deposited in the Consular and Border Security Programs account” for “credited as an offsetting collection to any appropriation for the Department of State”.
