---
title: "§ 7443. Issuance and amendment of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7443"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7443"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 534](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s534), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1050](/us/stat/110/1050).)"
---
# § 7443. Issuance and amendment of orders

##### § 7443. Issuance and amendment of orders

(a) In general Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary shall issue 1 or more orders under this subchapter applicable to producers and first purchasers of canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products. The order shall be national in scope. Not more than 1 order shall be in effect under this subchapter at any 1 time.

(b) Procedure

(1) Proposal or request for issuance The Secretary may propose the issuance of an order under this subchapter, or an association of canola and rapeseed producers or any other person that would be affected by an order issued pursuant to this subchapter may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for, an order.

(2) Notice and comment concerning proposed order Not later than 60 days after the receipt of a request and proposal for an order pursuant to paragraph (1), or whenever the Secretary determines to propose an order, the Secretary shall publish a proposed order and give due notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order.

(3) Issuance of order After notice and opportunity for public comment are given as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue an order, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the order provisions necessary to ensure that the order is in conformity with the requirements of this subchapter. The order shall be issued and become effective not later than 180 days following publication of the proposed order.

(c) Amendments The Secretary may amend an order issued under this section.

*([Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 534](/us/pl/104/127/tV/s534), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1050](/us/stat/110/1050).)*
