---
title: "§ 2132. Earnings and reserves; application of savings"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2132"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2132"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–181, title III, § 3](/us/pl/92/181/tIII/s3).11, Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 606](/us/stat/85/606); [Pub. L. 96–592, title III, § 308](/us/pl/96/592/tIII/s308), Dec. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 3445](/us/stat/94/3445); [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 205(e)(7)](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s205/e/7), (8), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/99/1705); [Pub. L. 100–233, title VIII](/us/pl/100/233/tVIII), §§ 802(r), 805(n), Jan. 6, 1988, [101 Stat. 1712](/us/stat/101/1712), 1716; [Pub. L. 115–334, title V, "
---
# § 2132. Earnings and reserves; application of savings

##### § 2132. Earnings and reserves; application of savings

(a) Application of savings At the end of each fiscal year, the net savings shall, under regulations prescribed by the Farm Credit Administration, continue to be applied on a cooperative basis with provision for sound, adequate capitalization to meet the changing financing needs of eligible cooperative borrowers and prudent corporate fiscal management, to the end that current year’s patrons carry their fair share of the capitalization, ultimate expenses, and reserves related to the year’s operations and the remaining net savings shall be distributed as patronage refunds as provided in subsection (b). Such regulations may provide for application of net savings to the restoration or maintenance of an allocated surplus account, reasonable additions to unallocated surplus, or to unallocated reserves after payment of operating expenses, and provide for allocations to patrons not qualified under title 26, or payment of such per centum of patronage refunds in cash, as the board may determine.

(b) Patronage refunds The net savings of each bank for cooperatives, after the earnings for the fiscal year have been applied in accordance with subsection (a) of this section shall be paid in stock, participation certificates, or cash, or in any of them, as determined by its board, as patronage refunds to borrowers to whom such refunds are payable who are borrowers of the fiscal year for which such patronage refunds are distributed. All patronage refunds shall be paid in proportion that the amount of interest and service fees on the loans to each borrower during the year bears to the interest and service fees on the loans of all borrowers during the year or on such other proportionate patronage basis as may be approved by the board of directors.

(c) Loss carryover In the event of a net loss in any fiscal year after providing for all operating expenses (including reasonable valuation reserves and losses in excess of any applicable reserves), such loss may be carried forward or carried back, if appropriate, or otherwise shall be absorbed by charges to unallocated reserve or surplus accounts established after December 10, 1971; charges to allocated contingency reserve account; charges to allocated surplus accounts; charges to other contingency reserve and surplus accounts; the impairment of voting stock; or the impairment of all other stock.

(d) Charge of unrecognized costs or expenses to reserve, surplus, or patronage allocations Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section any costs or expenses attributable to a prior year or years but not recognized in determining the net savings for such year or years may be charged to reserves or surplus of the bank or to patronage allocations for such years, as may be determined by the board of directors.

(e) Payment of patronage refunds in cash A bank for cooperatives may pay in cash such portion of its patronage refunds as will permit its taxable income to be determined without taking into account savings applied as allocated surplus, allocated contingency reserves, and patronage refunds under subsection (a) of this section.

*([Pub. L. 92–181, title III, § 3](/us/pl/92/181/tIII/s3).11, Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 606](/us/stat/85/606); [Pub. L. 96–592, title III, § 308](/us/pl/96/592/tIII/s308), Dec. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 3445](/us/stat/94/3445); [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 205(e)(7)](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s205/e/7), (8), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/99/1705); [Pub. L. 100–233, title VIII](/us/pl/100/233/tVIII), §§ 802(r), 805(n), Jan. 6, 1988, [101 Stat. 1712](/us/stat/101/1712), 1716; [Pub. L. 115–334, title V, § 5411(11)](/us/pl/115/334/tV/s5411/11), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4680](/us/stat/132/4680).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–334, § 5411(11)(A)](/us/pl/115/334/s5411/11/A), substituted “subsection (b)” for “subsections (b) and (c) of this section”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–334, § 5411(11)(B)](/us/pl/115/334/s5411/11/B), struck out “district” before “bank for cooperatives” and substituted “All patronage” for “Except as provided in subsection (c) below, all patronage”.

Subsecs. (c) to (f). [Pub. L. 115–334, § 5411(11)(C)](/us/pl/115/334/s5411/11/C), (D), redesignated subsecs. (d) to (f) as (c) to (e), respectively, and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (c) read as follows: “The net savings of the Central Bank for Cooperatives after the earnings for the fiscal year have been applied in accordance with subsection (a) of this section shall be paid in stock or cash, or both, as determined by the board, as patronage refunds to the district banks on the basis of interests held by the Central Bank in loans made by the district banks and upon any direct loans made by the Central Bank to cooperative associations, or on such other proportionate patronage basis as may be approved by the board of directors. In cases of direct loans, such refund shall be paid to the district bank or banks which issued their stock to the borrower incident to such loans, and the district bank or banks shall issue a like amount of patronage refunds to the borrower.”

1988—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 100–233](/us/pl/100/233), §§ 802(r)(1), 805(n)(1), (5), redesignated subsec. (b) as (a), substituted “(b) and (c)” for “(c) and (d)”, struck out “as may be approved by the Farm Credit Administration” after “payment of operating expenses”, and struck out at end “If during the fiscal year but not at the end thereof a bank shall have had outstanding capital stock held by the United States, provision will be made for payment of franchise taxes required in [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2151).”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–233](/us/pl/100/233), §§ 802(r)(2), 805(n)(2), (5), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and substituted “(a) of this section” for “(b) of this section, whichever is applicable,”, “(c) below” for “(d) below”, and “may be approved by the board of directors” for “the Farm Credit Administration may approve”. Former subsec. (b) redesignated (a).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 100–233](/us/pl/100/233), §§ 802(r)(3), 805(n)(3), (5), redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and substituted “(a) of this section” for “(b) of this section whichever is applicable,” and “may be approved by the board of directors” for “the Farm Credit Administration may approve”. Former subsec. (c) redesignated (b).

Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 100–233, § 805(n)(5)](/us/pl/100/233/s805/n/5), redesignated subsecs. (e) and (f) as (d) and (e), respectively. Former subsec. (d) redesignated (c).

Subsecs. (f), (g). [Pub. L. 100–233, § 805(n)(4)](/us/pl/100/233/s805/n/4), (5), redesignated subsec. (g) as (f), substituted “A bank for cooperatives” for “For any year that a bank for cooperatives is subject to Federal income tax, it”, and struck out “or (b)” after “subsection (a)”. Former subsec. (f) redesignated (e).

1985—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–205, § 205(e)(7)](/us/pl/99/205/s205/e/7), struck out subsec. (a) which provided for application of savings when bank for cooperatives has outstanding stock held by the Governor.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–205, § 205(e)(8)(A)](/us/pl/99/205/s205/e/8/A), substituted “At the end of each fiscal year, the net” for “Whenever at the end of any fiscal year a bank for cooperatives shall have no outstanding capital stock held by the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration, the net”.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 99–205, § 205(e)(8)(B)](/us/pl/99/205/s205/e/8/B), substituted “subsection (b) of this section” for “subsection (a) or (b) of this section”.

1980—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 96–592, § 308(1)](/us/pl/96/592/s308/1), struck out provisions relating to 25 per centum requirement for net savings.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 96–592, § 308(2)](/us/pl/96/592/s308/2), inserted applicability to participation certificates and to borrowers to whom refunds are payable.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205) effective thirty days after Dec. 23, 1985, see [section 401 of Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205/s401), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2001).
