---
title: "§ 12713. Eligibility under first-time homebuyer programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title IX, § 956](/us/pl/101/625/tIX/s956), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4421](/us/stat/104/4421).)"
---
# § 12713. Eligibility under first-time homebuyer programs

##### § 12713. Eligibility under first-time homebuyer programs

(a) Eligibility of displaced homemakers and single parents for Federal assistance for first-time homebuyers

(1) Displaced homemakers No individual who is a displaced homemaker may be denied eligibility under any Federal program to assist first-time homebuyers on the basis that the individual, while a homemaker, owned a home with his or her spouse or resided in a home owned by the spouse.

(2) Single parents No individual who is a single parent may be denied eligibility under any Federal program to assist first-time homebuyers on the basis that the individual, while married, owned a home with his or her spouse or resided in a home owned by the spouse.

(b) Definitions For purposes of this section:

(1) Displaced homemaker The term “displaced homemaker” means an individual who—

(A) is an adult;

(B) has not worked full-time, full-year in the labor force for a number of years but has, during such years, worked primarily without remuneration to care for the home and family; and

(C) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.

(2) First-time homebuyer The term “first-time homebuyer” means an individual who has never, or has not during a specified period of time, had any present ownership interest in a principal residence.

(3) Single parent The term “single parent” means an individual who—

(A) is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and

(B)

(i) has 1 or more minor children for whom the individual has custody or joint custody; or

(ii) is pregnant.

(c) Applicability This section shall apply to any Federal program to assist first-time homebuyers, unless the program is exempted from this section by a statute that amends this subsection or explicitly refers to this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title IX, § 956](/us/pl/101/625/tIX/s956), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4421](/us/stat/104/4421).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of title IX of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, and not as part of title I of such Act which comprises this subchapter.
