---
title: "§ 3755. Prerequisites to foreclosure"
identifier: "USC-T12-S3755"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section3755"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–327, title II](/us/pl/103/327/tII), Sept. 28, 1994, [108 Stat. 2316](/us/stat/108/2316).)"
---
# § 3755. Prerequisites to foreclosure

##### § 3755. Prerequisites to foreclosure

(a) In general

(1) Upon breach of covenant or condition The Secretary is authorized to foreclose a mortgage under this chapter upon the breach of a covenant or condition in the mortgage agreement.

(2) No other pending proceedings

(A) Prior to commencement No foreclosure may be commenced under this chapter unless any previously pending judicial or nonjudicial proceeding that has been separately instituted by the Secretary to foreclose the mortgage (other than under this chapter), has been withdrawn, dismissed, or otherwise terminated.

(B) After commencement No separately instituted foreclosure proceeding on a mortgage which is the subject of a foreclosure proceeding under this chapter shall be instituted by the Secretary during the pendency of foreclosure pursuant to this chapter.

(b) Other rights unaffected Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the Secretary from—

(1) enforcing any right, other than foreclosure, under applicable Federal or State law, including any right to obtain a monetary judgment; or

(2) foreclosing under this chapter if the Secretary has obtained or is seeking any other remedy available pursuant to Federal or State law, or under the mortgage agreement, including the appointment of a receiver, mortgagee-in-possession status, or relief under an assignment of rents.

*([Pub. L. 103–327, title II](/us/pl/103/327/tII), Sept. 28, 1994, [108 Stat. 2316](/us/stat/108/2316).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is based on section 806 of title VIII of S. 2281, One Hundred Third Congress, as reported July 13, 1994, which was enacted into law by [Pub. L. 103–327](/us/pl/103/327).
