---
title: "§ 642. Recordkeeping requirements"
identifier: "USC-T21-S642"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section642"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), title II, § 202, as added [Pub. L. 90–201, § 14](/us/pl/90/201/s14), Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 593](/us/stat/81/593).)"
---
# § 642. Recordkeeping requirements

##### § 642. Recordkeeping requirements

(a) Classes of persons bound; scope of disclosure; access to places of business; examination of rec­ords, facilities, and inventories; copies; samples The following classes of persons, firms, and corporations shall keep such records as will fully and correctly disclose all transactions involved in their businesses; and all persons, firms, and corporations subject to such requirements shall, at all reasonable times upon notice by a duly authorized representative of the Secretary, afford such representative access to their places of business and opportunity to examine the facilities, inventory, and records thereof, to copy all such records, and to take reasonable samples of their inventory upon payment of the fair market value therefor—

(1) Any persons, firms, or corporations that engage, for commerce, in the business of slaughtering any cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules, or other equines, or preparing, freezing, packaging, or labeling any carcasses, or parts or products of carcasses, of any such animals, for use as human food or animal food;

(2) Any persons, firms, or corporations that engage in the business of buying or selling (as meat brokers, wholesalers or otherwise), or transporting in commerce, or storing in or for commerce, or importing, any carcasses, or parts or products of carcasses, of any such animals;

(3) Any persons, firms, or corporations that engage in business, in or for commerce, as renderers, or engage in the business of buying, selling, or transporting, in commerce, or importing, any dead, dying, disabled, or diseased cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules, or other equines, or parts of the carcasses of any such animals that died otherwise than by slaughter.

(b) Period of maintenance Any record required to be maintained by this section shall be maintained for such period of time as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe.

*([Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907](/us/act/1907-03-04/ch2907), title II, § 202, as added [Pub. L. 90–201, § 14](/us/pl/90/201/s14), Dec. 15, 1967, [81 Stat. 593](/us/stat/81/593).)*
