---
title: "§ 4315. Consultations with respect to mutual recognition arrangements"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4315"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4315"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–125, title I, § 108](/us/pl/114/125/tI/s108), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 135](/us/stat/130/135).)"
---
# § 4315. Consultations with respect to mutual recognition arrangements

##### § 4315. Consultations with respect to mutual recognition arrangements

(a) Consultations The Secretary of Homeland Security, with respect to any proposed mutual recognition arrangement or similar agreement between the United States and a foreign government providing for mutual recognition of supply chain security programs and customs revenue functions, shall consult with the appropriate congressional committees—

(1) not later than 30 days before initiating negotiations to enter into any such arrangement or similar agreement; and

(2) not later than 30 days before entering into any such arrangement or similar agreement.

(b) Negotiating objective It shall be a negotiating objective of the United States in any negotiation for a mutual recognition arrangement or similar agreement with a foreign country on partnership programs, such as the Customs–Trade Partnership Against Terrorism established under subtitle B of title II of the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act of 2006 ([6 U.S.C. 961](/us/usc/t6/s961) et seq.), to seek to ensure the compatibility of the partnership programs of that country with the partnership programs of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to enhance security, trade facilitation, and trade enforcement.

*([Pub. L. 114–125, title I, § 108](/us/pl/114/125/tI/s108), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 135](/us/stat/130/135).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Security and Accountability for Every Port Act of 2006, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 109–347](/us/pl/109/347), Oct. 13, 2006, [120 Stat. 1884](/us/stat/120/1884), also known as the SAFE Port Act. Subtitle B of title II of the Act is classified generally to part B (§ 961 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 3 of Title 6, Domestic Security. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 901 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s901) and Tables.
