---
title: "§ 1904. Methods research; designation of methods"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1904"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1904"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–765, § 4](/us/pl/85/765/s4), Aug. 27, 1958, [72 Stat. 863](/us/stat/72/863); [Pub. L. 95–445, § 5(b)](/us/pl/95/445/s5/b)–(e), Oct. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 1069](/us/stat/92/1069).)"
---
# § 1904. Methods research; designation of methods

##### § 1904. Methods research; designation of methods

(a) to conduct, assist, and foster research, investigation, and experimentation to develop and determine methods of slaughter and the handling of livestock in connection with slaughter which are practicable with reference to the speed and scope of slaughtering operations and humane with reference to other existing methods and then current scientific knowledge; and

(b) on or before March 1, 1959, and at such times thereafter as he deems advisable, to designate methods of slaughter and of handling in connection with slaughter which, with respect to each species of livestock, conform to the policy stated in this chapter. If he deems it more effective, the Secretary may make any such designation by designating methods which are not in conformity with such policy. Designations by the Secretary subsequent to March 1, 1959, shall become effective 180 days after their publication in the Federal Register.

*([Pub. L. 85–765, § 4](/us/pl/85/765/s4), Aug. 27, 1958, [72 Stat. 863](/us/stat/72/863); [Pub. L. 95–445, § 5(b)](/us/pl/95/445/s5/b)–(e), Oct. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 1069](/us/stat/92/1069).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—Par. (a). [Pub. L. 95–445, § 5(d)](/us/pl/95/445/s5/d), inserted “and” after the semicolon at end.

Par. (b). [Pub. L. 95–445, § 5(c)](/us/pl/95/445/s5/c), (e), struck out “for purposes of [section 1903 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1903)” before “180 days”, and substituted a period for the semicolon at end.

Par. (c). [Pub. L. 95–445, § 5(b)](/us/pl/95/445/s5/b), repealed par. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–445](/us/pl/95/445) effective one year after Oct. 10, 1978, and nonapplicability during not to exceed additional 18 months in hardship cases, see sec. 7 of [Pub. L. 95–445](/us/pl/95/445) set out as a note under [section 603 of Title 21](/us/usc/t21/s603), Food and Drugs.
