---
title: "§ 2684a. Capital Investment Fund"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2684a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2684a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 135](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s135), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 396](/us/stat/108/396); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXII, § 2209, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–811](/us/stat/112/2681-811).)"
---
# § 2684a. Capital Investment Fund

##### § 2684a. Capital Investment Fund

(a) Establishment There is established within the Department of State a Capital Investment Fund to provide for the procurement and enhancement of information technology and other related capital investments for the Department of State and to ensure the efficient management, coordination, operation, and utilization of such resources.

(b) Funding Funds otherwise available for the purposes of subsection (a) may be deposited in such Fund.

(c) Availability Amounts deposited into the Fund shall remain available until expended.

(d) Expenditures from Fund Amounts deposited in the Fund shall be available for purposes of subsection (a).

(e) Reprogramming procedures Funds credited to the Capital Investment Fund shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under [section 2706 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2706).

*([Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 135](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s135), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 396](/us/stat/108/396); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXII, § 2209, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–811](/us/stat/112/2681-811).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 2209(1)](/us/pl/105/277/s2209/1), inserted “and enhancement” after “procurement”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 2209(2)](/us/pl/105/277/s2209/2), substituted “shall” for “are authorized to”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 2209(3)](/us/pl/105/277/s2209/3), substituted “for purposes of subsection (a)” for “for expenditure to procure capital equipment and information technology”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 2209(4)](/us/pl/105/277/s2209/4), reenacted heading without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Funds credited to the Capital Investment Fund shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under [section 2706 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2706) and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures applicable to such reprogrammings.”
