---
title: "§ 4019. Disclosure of information"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4019"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4019"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–290, title III, § 309](/us/pl/97/290/tIII/s309), Oct. 8, 1982, [96 Stat. 1244](/us/stat/96/1244).)"
---
# § 4019. Disclosure of information

##### § 4019. Disclosure of information

(a) Exemption Information submitted by any person in connection with the issuance, amendment, or revocation of a certificate of review shall be exempt from disclosure under [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552).

(b) Protection of potentially harmful confidential information; exceptions: Congress; judicial or administrative proceedings; consent; necessity for determination; Federal law; regulations

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), no officer or employee of the United States shall disclose commercial or financial information submitted in connection with the issuance, amendment, or revocation of a certificate of review if the information is privileged or confidential and if disclosure of the information would cause harm to the person who submitted the information.

(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to information disclosed—

(A) upon a request made by the Congress or any committee of the Congress,

(B) in a judicial or administrative proceeding, subject to appropriate protective orders,

(C) with the consent of the person who submitted the information,

(D) in the course of making a determination with respect to the issuance, amendment, or revocation of a certificate of review, if the Secretary deems disclosure of the information to be necessary in connection with making the determination,

(E) in accordance with any requirement imposed by a statute of the United States, or

(F) in accordance with any rule or regulation promulgated under [section 4020 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4020) permitting the disclosure of the information to an agency of the United States or of a State on the condition that the agency will disclose the information only under the circumstances specified in subparagraphs (A) through (E).

*([Pub. L. 97–290, title III, § 309](/us/pl/97/290/tIII/s309), Oct. 8, 1982, [96 Stat. 1244](/us/stat/96/1244).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 8, 1982, see [section 312 of Pub. L. 97–290](/us/pl/97/290/s312), set out as a note under [section 4011 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4011).
