---
title: "§ 1430. Annual report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1430"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1430"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6210](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6210), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 217](/us/stat/126/217).)"
---
# § 1430. Annual report to Congress

##### § 1430. Annual report to Congress

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after February 22, 2012, and each year thereafter, the First Responder Network Authority shall submit an annual report covering the preceding fiscal year to the appropriate committees of Congress.

(b) Required content The report required under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) a comprehensive and detailed report of the operations, activities, financial condition, and accomplishments of the First Responder Network Authority under this section; and

(2) such recommendations or proposals for legislative or administrative action as the First Responder Network Authority deems appropriate.

(c) Availability to testify The members of the Board and employees of the First Responder Network Authority shall be available to testify before the appropriate committees of the Congress with respect to—

(1) the report required under subsection (a);

(2) the report of any audit conducted under section 1429 11 See References in Text note below. of this title; or

(3) any other matter which such committees may determine appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6210](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6210), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 217](/us/stat/126/217).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1429 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1429), referred to in subsec. (c)(2), was in the original a reference to [section 6210 of Pub. L. 112–96](/us/pl/112/96/s6210), this section, and was translated as if it had been a reference to [section 6209 of Pub. L. 112–96](/us/pl/112/96/s6209), which is classified to [section 1429 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1429), to reflect the probable intent of Congress. Section 6210 does not relate to audits.
