---
title: "§ 3716. Critical industries"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3716"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3716"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–245, title V, § 504](/us/pl/102/245/tV/s504), Feb. 14, 1992, [106 Stat. 24](/us/stat/106/24).)"
---
# § 3716. Critical industries

##### § 3716. Critical industries

(a) Identification of industries and development of plan The Secretary shall—

(1) identify those civilian industries in the United States that are necessary to support a robust manufacturing infrastructure and critical to the economic security of the United States; and

(2) list the major research and development initiatives being undertaken, and the substantial investments being made, by the Federal Government, including its research laboratories, in each of the critical industries identified under paragraph (1).

(b) Initial report The Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress within 1 year after February 14, 1992, on the actions taken under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 102–245, title V, § 504](/us/pl/102/245/tV/s504), Feb. 14, 1992, [106 Stat. 24](/us/stat/106/24).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Subsec. (c) of this section, which required the Secretary to annually submit to Congress an update of the report submitted under subsec. (b) of this section, terminated, effective May 15, 2000, pursuant to [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance. See, also, page 52 of House Document No. 103–7.

Section was enacted as part of the American Technology Preeminence Act of 1991, and not as part of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.
