---
title: "§ 41508. Grants to States for threat assessment databases"
identifier: "USC-T34-S41508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section41508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–177, title III, § 303](/us/pl/110/177/tIII/s303), Jan. 7, 2008, [121 Stat. 2540](/us/stat/121/2540).)"
---
# § 41508. Grants to States for threat assessment databases

##### § 41508. Grants to States for threat assessment databases

(a) In general The Attorney General, through the Office of Justice Programs, shall make grants under this section to the highest State courts in States participating in the program, for the purpose of enabling such courts to establish and maintain a threat assessment database described in subsection (b).

(b) Database For purposes of subsection (a), a threat assessment database is a database through which a State can—

(1) analyze trends and patterns in domestic terrorism and crime;

(2) project the probabilities that specific acts of domestic terrorism or crime will occur; and

(3) develop measures and procedures that can effectively reduce the probabilities that those acts will occur.

(c) Core elements The Attorney General shall define a core set of data elements to be used by each database funded by this section so that the information in the database can be effectively shared with other States and with the Department of Justice.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2011.

*([Pub. L. 110–177, title III, § 303](/us/pl/110/177/tIII/s303), Jan. 7, 2008, [121 Stat. 2540](/us/stat/121/2540).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3714a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3714a), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
