---
title: "§ 2309. Procedures applicable to promulgation of rules by Commission"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2309"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2309"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–637, title I, § 109](/us/pl/93/637/tI/s109), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2189](/us/stat/88/2189).)"
---
# § 2309. Procedures applicable to promulgation of rules by Commission

##### § 2309. Procedures applicable to promulgation of rules by Commission

(a) Oral presentation Any rule prescribed under this chapter shall be prescribed in accordance with [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553); except that the Commission shall give interested persons an opportunity for oral presentations of data, views, and arguments, in addition to written submissions. A transcript shall be kept of any oral presentation. Any such rule shall be subject to judicial review under [section 57a(e) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s57a/e) in the same manner as rules prescribed under [section 57a(a)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s57a/a/1/B), except that [section 57a(e)(3)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s57a/e/3/B) shall not apply.

(b) Warranties and warranty practices involved in sale of used motor vehicles The Commission shall initiate within one year after January 4, 1975, a rulemaking proceeding dealing with warranties and warranty practices in connection with the sale of used motor vehicles; and, to the extent necessary to supplement the protections offered the consumer by this chapter, shall prescribe rules dealing with such warranties and practices. In prescribing rules under this subsection, the Commission may exercise any authority it may have under this chapter, or other law, and in addition it may require disclosure that a used motor vehicle is sold without any warranty and specify the form and content of such disclosure.

*([Pub. L. 93–637, title I, § 109](/us/pl/93/637/tI/s109), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2189](/us/stat/88/2189).)*
