---
title: "§ 477. Model civil justice expense and delay reduction plan"
identifier: "USC-T28-S477"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section477"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–650, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/101/650/tI/s103/a), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5094](/us/stat/104/5094).)"
---
# § 477. Model civil justice expense and delay reduction plan

##### § 477. Model civil justice expense and delay reduction plan

(a)

(1) Based on the plans developed and implemented by the United States district courts designated as Early Implementation District Courts pursuant to section 103(c) of the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990, the Judicial Conference of the United States may develop one or more model civil justice expense and delay reduction plans. Any such model plan shall be accompanied by a report explaining the manner in which the plan complies with [section 473 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s473).

(2) The Director of the Federal Judicial Center and the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts may make recommendations to the Judicial Conference regarding the development of any model civil justice expense and delay reduction plan.

(b) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts shall transmit to the United States district courts and to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of Representatives copies of any model plan and accompanying report.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–650, title I, § 103(a)](/us/pl/101/650/tI/s103/a), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5094](/us/stat/104/5094).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 103(c) of the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 [[Pub. L. 101–650](/us/pl/101/650)], referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is set out as a note under [section 471 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s471).
