---
title: "§ 3313. Notification of memoranda of understanding"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3313"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3313"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title III, § 311](/us/pl/115/31/dN/tIII/s311), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 815](/us/stat/131/815); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6723](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6723), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2234](/us/stat/133/2234).)"
---
# § 3313. Notification of memoranda of understanding

##### § 3313. Notification of memoranda of understanding

(a) In general Each year, concurrent with the annual budget request submitted by the President to Congress under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105), each head of an element of the intelligence community shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report that lists each memorandum of understanding or other agreement regarding significant operational activities or policy entered into during the most recently completed fiscal year between or among such element and any other entity of the United States Government.

(b) Provision of documents Each head of an element of an intelligence community who receives a request from the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate or the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives for a copy of a memorandum of understanding or other document listed in a report submitted by the head under subsection (a) shall submit to such committee the requested copy as soon as practicable after receiving such request.

(c) Administrative memorandum or agreement Nothing in this section may be construed to require an element of the intelligence community to submit to the congressional intelligence committees any memorandum or agreement that is solely administrative in nature, including a memorandum or agreement regarding joint duty or other routine personnel assignments.

*([Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title III, § 311](/us/pl/115/31/dN/tIII/s311), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 815](/us/stat/131/815); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVII, § 6723](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVII/s6723), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2234](/us/stat/133/2234).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—[Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) added subsecs. (a) and (b), redesignated former subsec. (b) as (c) and struck out former subsec. (a). Text read as follows: “The head of each element of the intelligence community shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a copy of each memorandum of understanding or other agreement regarding significant operational activities or policy between or among such element and any other entity or entities of the United States Government—

“(1) for such a memorandum or agreement that is in effect on May 5, 2017, not later than 60 days after such date; and

“(2) for such a memorandum or agreement entered into after such date, in a timely manner and not more than 60 days after the date such memorandum or other agreement is entered into.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “intelligence community” and “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in text, see [section 2 of div. N of Pub. L. 115–31](/us/pl/115/31/dN/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
