---
title: "§ 8793. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who engage in censorship or other forms of repression in Syria"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8793"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8793"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–158, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/112/158/tVII/s704), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1268](/us/stat/126/1268).)"
---
# § 8793. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who engage in censorship or other forms of repression in Syria

##### § 8793. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who engage in censorship or other forms of repression in Syria

(a) In general The President shall impose sanctions described in [section 8791(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8791/c) with respect to each person on the list required by subsection (b).

(b) List of persons who engage in censorship

(1) In general Not later than 120 days after August 10, 2012, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of persons that the President determines have engaged in censorship, or activities relating to censorship, in a manner that prohibits, limits, or penalizes the legitimate exercise of freedom of expression by citizens of Syria.

(2) Updates of list The President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an updated list under paragraph (1)—

(A) not later than 300 days after August 10, 2012, and every 180 days thereafter; and

(B) as new information becomes available.

(3) Form of report; public availability

(A) Form The list required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.

(B) Public availability The unclassified portion of the list required by paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public and posted on the websites of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State.

*([Pub. L. 112–158, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/112/158/tVII/s704), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1268](/us/stat/126/1268).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section, see [section 8795 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8795).
