---
title: "§ 2413. Executive Director and Deputy Director"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2413"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2413"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–136, title II, § 203](/us/pl/94/136/tII/s203), Nov. 28, 1975, [89 Stat. 736](/us/stat/89/736).)"
---
# § 2413. Executive Director and Deputy Director

##### § 2413. Executive Director and Deputy Director

(a) Appointment of Executive Director; term of temporary Executive Director The Center shall have an Executive Director, who shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties and functions of the office. No person shall serve as acting or temporary Executive Director for a period in excess of three months.

(b) Appointment of Deputy Director; functions The Executive Director shall appoint a Deputy Director, who shall perform such functions as the Executive Director may prescribe. The Deputy Director shall act for and exercise the powers of the Executive Director during the absence of disability of the Executive Director.

(c) Powers and duties of Executive Director The Executive Director shall be responsible for the exercise of all powers and the discharge of all duties of the Center. The Executive Director shall have authority over and control of all of the staff of the Center and their activities. The Executive Director shall maintain budgets and allocate available funds as appropriate in carrying out the provisions of this chapter.

(d) Compensation of Executive Director; dual employment The Executive Director shall be compensated at a rate not to exceed that provided for Executive level IV under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315) as determined by the President, and shall have no other employment, public or private, during the tenure of his appointment.

*([Pub. L. 94–136, title II, § 203](/us/pl/94/136/tII/s203), Nov. 28, 1975, [89 Stat. 736](/us/stat/89/736).)*
