---
title: "§ 11121. Criteria"
identifier: "USC-T49-S11121"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section11121"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 832](/us/stat/109/832).)"
---
# § 11121. Criteria

##### § 11121. Criteria

(a)

(1) A rail carrier providing transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Board under this part shall furnish safe and adequate car service and establish, observe, and enforce reasonable rules and practices on car service. The Board may require a rail carrier to provide facilities and equipment that are reasonably necessary to furnish safe and adequate car service if the Board decides that the rail carrier has materially failed to furnish that service. The Board may begin a proceeding under this paragraph when an interested person files an application with it. The Board may act only after a hearing on the record and an affirmative finding, based on the evidence presented, that—

(A) providing the facilities or equipment will not materially and adversely affect the ability of the rail carrier to provide safe and adequate transportation;

(B) the amount spent for the facilities or equipment, including a return equal to the rail carrier’s current cost of capital, will be recovered; and

(C) providing the facilities or equipment will not impair the ability of the rail carrier to attract adequate capital.

(2) The Board may require a rail carrier to file its car service rules with the Board.

(b) The Board may designate and appoint agents and agencies to make and carry out its directions related to car service and matters under sections 11123 and 11124(a)(1) of this title.

(c) The Board shall consult, as it considers necessary, with the National Grain Car Council on matters within the charter of that body.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 832](/us/stat/109/832).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 11121, [Pub. L. 95–473](/us/pl/95/473), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1421](/us/stat/92/1421); [Pub. L. 96–258, § 1(11)](/us/pl/96/258/s1/11), June 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 426](/us/stat/94/426), related to criteria of rail carriers to furnish safe and adequate car service, prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
