---
title: "§ 3306. Certain levee improvements"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1123](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1123), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3779](/us/stat/132/3779).)"
---
# § 3306. Certain levee improvements

##### § 3306. Certain levee improvements

(a) In general Notwithstanding section 211 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 ([31 U.S.C. 6505](/us/usc/t31/s6505) note), the Secretary, at the request of a local government, is authorized to provide technical services, on a reimbursable basis, to the local government to assess the reasons a federally constructed levee owned or operated by the local government is not accredited by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

(b) Federal levees In carrying out this section, in a case in which a levee owned and operated by the Secretary is hydraulically tied to a levee described in subsection (a), the Secretary is encouraged to cooperate, to the maximum extent practicable, with the relevant local governmental entities in assessing the reasons the levee described in subsection (a) is not accredited.

(c) Limitation Nothing in this section—

(1) affects the responsibilities of a local government to operate and maintain its flood control infrastructure; or

(2) obligates the Secretary to expend additional Federal resources on levees owned and operated by the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1123](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1123), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3779](/us/stat/132/3779).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 211 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000, referred to in subsec. (a), is [section 211 of Pub. L. 106–541](/us/pl/106/541/s211), which is set out as a note under [section 6505 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s6505), Money and Finance.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018, and also as part of the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, and not as part of the National Levee Safety Act of 2007 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 102 of Pub. L. 115–270](/us/pl/115/270/s102), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
