---
title: "§ 1320b–20. Work incentives outreach program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1320b–20"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1320b–20"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XI, § 1149, as added [Pub. L. 106–170, title I, § 121](/us/pl/106/170/tI/s121), Dec. 17, 1999, [113 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/113/1887); amended [Pub. L. 108–203, title IV](/us/pl/108/203/tIV), §§ 404(a)(1), 407(a), Mar. 2, 2004, [118 Stat. 525](/us/stat/118/525), 527; [Pub. L. 111–63, § 2](/us/pl/111/63/s2), Sept. 18, 2009, [123 Stat. 2001](/us/stat/123/2001); [Pub. L. 111–280](/us/pl/111/280), §§ 2(a), 3(a), (b)(1), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat"
---
# § 1320b–20. Work incentives outreach program

##### § 1320b–20. Work incentives outreach program

(a) Establishment

(1) In general The Commissioner, in consultation with the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Advisory Panel established under section 101(f) of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999, shall establish a community-based work incentives planning and assistance program for the purpose of disseminating accurate information to disabled beneficiaries on work incentives programs and issues related to such programs.

(2) Grants, cooperative agreements, contracts, and outreach Under the program established under this section, the Commissioner shall—

(A) establish a competitive program of grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts to provide benefits planning and assistance, including information on the availability of protection and advocacy services, to disabled beneficiaries, including individuals participating in the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program established under [section 1320b–19 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–19), the program established under [section 1382h of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1382h), and other programs that are designed to encourage disabled beneficiaries to work;

(B) conduct directly, or through grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts, ongoing outreach efforts to disabled beneficiaries (and to the families of such beneficiaries) who are potentially eligible to participate in Federal or State work incentive programs that are designed to assist disabled beneficiaries to work, including—

(i) preparing and disseminating information explaining such programs; and

(ii) working in cooperation with other Federal, State, and private agencies and nonprofit organizations that serve disabled beneficiaries, and with agencies and organizations that focus on vocational rehabilitation and work-related training and counseling;

(C) establish a corps of trained, accessible, and responsive work incentives specialists within the Social Security Administration who will specialize in disability work incentives under subchapters II and XVI for the purpose of disseminating accurate information with respect to inquiries and issues relating to work incentives to—

(i) disabled beneficiaries;

(ii) benefit applicants under subchapters II and XVI; and

(iii) individuals or entities awarded grants under subparagraphs 11 So in original. Probably should be “subparagraph”. (A) or (B); and

(D) provide—

(i) training for work incentives specialists and individuals providing planning assistance described in subparagraph (C); and

(ii) technical assistance to organizations and entities that are designed to encourage disabled beneficiaries to return to work.

(3) Coordination with other programs The responsibilities of the Commissioner established under this section shall be coordinated with other public and private programs that provide information and assistance regarding rehabilitation services and independent living supports and benefits planning for disabled beneficiaries including the program under [section 1382h of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1382h), the plans for achieving self-support program (PASS), and any other Federal or State work incentives programs that are designed to assist disabled beneficiaries, including educational agencies that provide information and assistance regarding rehabilitation, school-to-work programs, transition services (as defined in, and provided in accordance with, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act ([20 U.S.C. 1400](/us/usc/t20/s1400) et seq.)), a one-stop delivery system established under [section 3151(e) of title 29](/us/usc/t29/s3151/e), and other services.

(b) Conditions

(1) Selection of entities

(A) Application An entity shall submit an application for a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract to provide benefits planning and assistance to the Commissioner at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Commissioner may determine is necessary to meet the requirements of this section.

(B) Statewideness The Commissioner shall ensure that the planning, assistance, and information described in paragraph (2) shall be available on a statewide basis.

(C) Eligibility of States and private organizations

(i) In general The Commissioner may award a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under this section to a State or a private agency or organization (other than Social Security Administration Field Offices and the State agency administering the State medicaid program under subchapter XIX, including any agency or entity described in clause (ii), that the Commissioner determines is qualified to provide the planning, assistance, and information described in paragraph (2)).

(ii) Agencies and entities described The agencies and entities described in this clause are the following:

(I) Any public or private agency or organization (including Centers for Independent Living established under title VII of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ([29 U.S.C. 796](/us/usc/t29/s796) et seq.), protection and advocacy organizations, client assistance programs established in accordance with section 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ([29 U.S.C. 732](/us/usc/t29/s732)), and State Developmental Disabilities Councils established in accordance with section 6024 22 See References in Text note below. of this title) that the Commissioner determines satisfies the requirements of this section.

(II) The State agency administering the State program funded under part A of subchapter IV.

(D) Exclusion for conflict of interest The Commissioner may not award a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under this section to any entity that the Commissioner determines would have a conflict of interest if the entity were to receive a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under this section.

(2) Services provided A recipient of a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract to provide benefits planning and assistance shall select individuals who will act as planners and provide information, guidance, and planning to disabled beneficiaries on the—

(A) availability and interrelation of any Federal or State work incentives programs designed to assist disabled beneficiaries that the individual may be eligible to participate in;

(B) adequacy of any health benefits coverage that may be offered by an employer of the individual and the extent to which other health benefits coverage may be available to the individual; and

(C) availability of protection and advocacy services for disabled beneficiaries and how to access such services.

(3) Amount of grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts

(A) Based on population of disabled beneficiaries Subject to subparagraph (B), the Commissioner shall award a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under this section to an entity based on the percentage of the population of the State where the entity is located who are disabled beneficiaries.

(B) Limitations

(i) Per grant No entity shall receive a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under this section for a fiscal year that is less than $50,000 or more than $300,000.

(ii) Total amount for all grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts The total amount of all grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts awarded under this section for a fiscal year may not exceed $23,000,000.

(4) Funding

(A) Allocation of costs The costs of carrying out this section shall be paid from amounts made available for the administration of subchapter II and amounts made available for the administration of subchapter XVI, and shall be allocated among those amounts as appropriate.

(B) Carryover An amount not in excess of 10 percent of the total amount obligated through a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract awarded under this section for a fiscal year to a State or a private agency or organization shall remain available for obligation to such State or private agency or organization until the end of the succeeding fiscal year. Any such amount remaining available for obligation during such succeeding fiscal year shall be available for providing benefits planning and assistance only for individuals who are within the caseload of the recipient of the grant, agreement, or contract as of immediately before the beginning of such fiscal year.

(c) Annual report Each entity awarded a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under this section shall submit an annual report to the Commissioner on the benefits planning and assistance provided to individuals under such grant, agreement, or contract.

(d) Definitions In this section:

(1) Commissioner The term “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Social Security.

(2) Disabled beneficiary The term “disabled beneficiary” means an individual—

(A) who is a disabled beneficiary as defined in [section 1320b–19(k)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–19/k/2);

(B) who is receiving a cash payment described in [section 1382e(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1382e/a) or a supplementary payment described in [section 212(a)(3) of Public Law 93–66](/us/pl/93/66/s212/a/3) (without regard to whether such payment is paid by the Commissioner pursuant to an agreement under [section 1382e(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1382e/a) or under [section 212(b) of Public Law 93–66](/us/pl/93/66/s212/b));

(C) who, pursuant to [section 1382h(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1382h/b), is considered to be receiving benefits under subchapter XVI of this chapter; or

(D) who is entitled to benefits under part A of subchapter XVIII of this chapter by reason of the penultimate sentence of [section 426(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s426/b).

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $23,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2000 through 2011.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XI, § 1149, as added [Pub. L. 106–170, title I, § 121](/us/pl/106/170/tI/s121), Dec. 17, 1999, [113 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/113/1887); amended [Pub. L. 108–203, title IV](/us/pl/108/203/tIV), §§ 404(a)(1), 407(a), Mar. 2, 2004, [118 Stat. 525](/us/stat/118/525), 527; [Pub. L. 111–63, § 2](/us/pl/111/63/s2), Sept. 18, 2009, [123 Stat. 2001](/us/stat/123/2001); [Pub. L. 111–280](/us/pl/111/280), §§ 2(a), 3(a), (b)(1), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2903](/us/stat/124/2903); [Pub. L. 113–128, title V, § 512(dd)(3)](/us/pl/113/128/tV/s512/dd/3), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1718](/us/stat/128/1718).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 101(f) of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is [section 101(f) of Pub. L. 106–170](/us/pl/106/170/s101/f), which is set out as a note under [section 1320b–19 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–19).

The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), is title VI of [Pub. L. 91–230](/us/pl/91/230), Apr. 13, 1970, [84 Stat. 175](/us/stat/84/175), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1400 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1400) and Tables.

The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(C)(ii)(I), is [Pub. L. 93–112](/us/pl/93/112), Sept. 26, 1973, [87 Stat. 355](/us/stat/87/355). Title VII of the Act is classified generally to subchapter VII (§ 796 et seq.) of chapter 16 of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 701 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s701) and Tables.

[Section 6024 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6024), referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(C)(ii)(I), was repealed by [Pub. L. 106–402, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/106/402/tIV/s401/a), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1737](/us/stat/114/1737). See [section 15025 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15025).

[Section 212 of Public Law 93–66](/us/pl/93/66/s212), referred to in subsec. (d)(2)(B), is set out as a note under [section 1382 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1382).

#### Amendments

2014—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128) substituted “a one-stop delivery system established under [section 3151(e) of title 29](/us/usc/t29/s3151/e)” for “a one-stop delivery system established under subtitle B of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 ([29 U.S.C. 2811](/us/usc/t29/s2811) et seq.)”.

2010—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 111–280, § 3(b)(1)](/us/pl/111/280/s3/b/1), substituted “Funding” for “Allocation of costs” in par. (4) heading, designated existing provisions as subpar. (A), inserted subpar. (A) heading, and added subpar. (B).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–280, § 3(a)](/us/pl/111/280/s3/a), added subsec. (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (d).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–280, § 3(a)](/us/pl/111/280/s3/a), redesignated subsec. (c) as (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).

[Pub. L. 111–280, § 2(a)](/us/pl/111/280/s2/a), substituted “2011” for “2010”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 111–280, § 3(a)](/us/pl/111/280/s3/a), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e).

2009—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–63](/us/pl/111/63) substituted “2010” for “2009”.

2004—Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 108–203, § 404(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/203/s404/a/1), reenacted heading without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The term ‘disabled beneficiary’ has the meaning given that term in [section 1320b–19(k)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–19/k/2).”

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 108–203, § 407(a)](/us/pl/108/203/s407/a), substituted “2009” for “2004”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2014 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128) effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 (July 1, 2015), see [section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128/s506), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3101 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s3101), Labor.

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–280, § 3(b)(2)](/us/pl/111/280/s3/b/2), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2904](/us/stat/124/2904), provided that: “The amendments made by paragraph (1) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to amounts allotted under section 1149 of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1320b–20](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–20)] for payment for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2010.”

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–203, title IV, § 404(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/203/tIV/s404/a/2), Mar. 2, 2004, [118 Stat. 526](/us/stat/118/526), provided that: “The amendment made by this subsection [amending this section] shall apply with respect to grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 2, 2004].”
