---
title: "§ 426o–1. Planning"
identifier: "USC-T16-S426o–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section426o–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–205, § 3](/us/pl/100/205/s3), as added [Pub. L. 102–225, § 1(4)](/us/pl/102/225/s1/4), Dec. 11, 1991, [105 Stat. 1683](/us/stat/105/1683); amended [Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(15)](/us/pl/103/437/s6/d/15), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4584](/us/stat/108/4584).)"
---
# § 426o–1. Planning

##### § 426o–1. Planning

(a) Preparation of plan for Redoubt Brannan The Secretary shall, on or before February 1, 1992, prepare a plan for the preservation and interpretation of Redoubt Brannan.

(b) Update of General Management Plan The Secretary shall, on or before March 31, 1993, update the General Management Plan for the Stones River National Battlefield.

(c) Technical assistance The Secretary is authorized to provide technical assistance to the city and to Rutherford County in the development of zoning ordinances and other land use controls that would help preserve historically significant areas adjacent to the battlefield.

(d) Minor boundary revisions If the planning activities conducted under subsections (a) and (b) of this section show a need for minor revisions of the boundaries indicated on the map referred to in [section 426n of this title](/us/usc/t16/s426n), the Secretary may, following timely notice in writing to the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate of his intention to do so and providing an opportunity for public comment, make such minor revisions by publication of a revised boundary map or other description in the Federal Register.

*([Pub. L. 100–205, § 3](/us/pl/100/205/s3), as added [Pub. L. 102–225, § 1(4)](/us/pl/102/225/s1/4), Dec. 11, 1991, [105 Stat. 1683](/us/stat/105/1683); amended [Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(15)](/us/pl/103/437/s6/d/15), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4584](/us/stat/108/4584).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 3 of Pub. L. 100–205](/us/pl/100/205/s3) was renumbered section 4 and is classified to [section 426p of this title](/us/usc/t16/s426p).

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs” after “Committee on”.
