---
title: "§ 2521. Injunction against illegal interception"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2521"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2521"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–508, title I, § 110(a)](/us/pl/99/508/tI/s110/a), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1859](/us/stat/100/1859).)"
---
# § 2521. Injunction against illegal interception

##### § 2521. Injunction against illegal interception

Whenever it shall appear that any person is engaged or is about to engage in any act which constitutes or will constitute a felony violation of this chapter, the Attorney General may initiate a civil action in a district court of the United States to enjoin such violation. The court shall proceed as soon as practicable to the hearing and determination of such an action, and may, at any time before final determination, enter such a restraining order or prohibition, or take such other action, as is warranted to prevent a continuing and substantial injury to the United States or to any person or class of persons for whose protection the action is brought. A proceeding under this section is governed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, except that, if an indictment has been returned against the respondent, discovery is governed by the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–508, title I, § 110(a)](/us/pl/99/508/tI/s110/a), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1859](/us/stat/100/1859).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, referred to in text, are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, referred to in text, are set out in the Appendix to this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days after Oct. 21, 1986, and, in case of conduct pursuant to court order or extension, applicable only with respect to court orders and extensions made after such date, with special rule for State authorizations of interceptions, see [section 111 of Pub. L. 99–508](/us/pl/99/508/s111), set out as an Effective Date of 1986 Amendment note under [section 2510 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s2510).
