---
title: "§ 311103. Designation of Preserve America Communities"
identifier: "USC-T54-S311103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section311103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3248](/us/stat/128/3248); [Pub. L. 114–289, title V, § 501(d)](/us/pl/114/289/tV/s501/d), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1490](/us/stat/130/1490).)"
---
# § 311103. Designation of Preserve America Communities

##### § 311103. Designation of Preserve America Communities

(a) Application.— To be considered for designation as a Preserve America Community, a community, tribal area, or neighborhood shall submit to the Council an application containing such information as the Council may require.

(b) Criteria.— To be designated as a Preserve America Community under the program, a community, tribal area, or neighborhood that submits an application under subsection (a) shall, as determined by the Chairman of the Council, in consultation with the Secretary, meet criteria required by the Chairman of the Council and, in addition, consider—

(1) protection and celebration of the heritage of the community, tribal area, or neighborhood;

(2) use of the historic assets of the community, tribal area, or neighborhood for economic development and community revitalization; and

(3) encouragement of people to experience and appreciate local historic resources through education and heritage tourism programs.

(c) Local Governments Previously Certified for Historic Preservation Activities.— The Council shall establish an expedited process for Preserve America Community designation for local governments previously certified for historic preservation activities under [section 302502 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s302502).

(d) Guidelines.— The Chairman of the Council, in consultation with the Secretary, shall establish any guidelines that are necessary to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3248](/us/stat/128/3248); [Pub. L. 114–289, title V, § 501(d)](/us/pl/114/289/tV/s501/d), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1490](/us/stat/130/1490).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 311103 | 16 U.S.C. 469n(d). | Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, subtitle D, § 7302(d), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1215. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–289](/us/pl/114/289) substituted “Chairman of the Council” for “Council” in two places in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 114–289](/us/pl/114/289) substituted “Chairman of the Council” for “Council”.
