---
title: "§ 3925. Compatibility between Foreign Service and other Government personnel systems"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3925"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3925"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 205](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s205), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2079](/us/stat/94/2079).)"
---
# § 3925. Compatibility between Foreign Service and other Government personnel systems

##### § 3925. Compatibility between Foreign Service and other Government personnel systems

The Service shall be administered to the extent practicable in conformity with general policies and regulations of the Government. The Secretary shall consult with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the heads of such other agencies as the President shall determine, in order to assure compatibility of the Foreign Service personnel system with other Government personnel systems to the extent practicable.

*([Pub. L. 96–465, title I, § 205](/us/pl/96/465/tI/s205), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2079](/us/stat/94/2079).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under this section delegated to Secretary of State, see section 1 of Ex. Ord. No. 12293, Feb. 23, 1981, 46 F.R. 13969, set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3901).

#### Consultation With Other Federal Departments and Agencies

For authority for the Secretary of State to consult with the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Director of the United States Information Agency, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to ensure compatibility between the Foreign Service personnel system and other government personnel systems, see section 2 of Ex. Ord. No. 12293, Feb. 23, 1981, 46 F.R. 13969, as amended, set out as note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3901).
