---
title: "§ 1671h. Conditional payment of countervailing duty"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1671h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1671h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 709, as added [Pub. L. 98–573, title VI, § 608](/us/pl/98/573/tVI/s608), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3029](/us/stat/98/3029).)"
---
# § 1671h. Conditional payment of countervailing duty

##### § 1671h. Conditional payment of countervailing duty

(a) In general For all entries, or withdrawals from warehouse, for consumption of merchandise subject to a countervailing duty order on or after the date of publication of such order, no customs officer may deliver merchandise of that class or kind to the person by whom or for whose account it was imported unless that person complies with the requirement of subsection (b) and deposits with the appropriate customs officer an estimated countervailing duty in an amount determined by the administering authority.

(b) Importer requirements In order to meet the requirements of this subsection, a person shall—

(1) furnish, or arrange to have furnished, to the appropriate customs officer such information as the administering authority deems necessary for ascertaining any countervailing duty to be imposed under this part,

(2) maintain and furnish to the customs officer such records concerning such merchandise as the administering authority, by regulation, requires, and

(3) pay, or agree to pay on demand, to the customs officer the amount of countervailing duty imposed under this part on that merchandise.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 709, as added [Pub. L. 98–573, title VI, § 608](/us/pl/98/573/tVI/s608), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3029](/us/stat/98/3029).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 30, 1984, see [section 626(a) of Pub. L. 98–573](/us/pl/98/573/s626/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1984 Amendment note under [section 1671 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671).
