---
title: "§ 1524. Agreements to provide support to vaccination programs of Department of Health and Human Services"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1524"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1524"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title XVII, § 1705](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tXVII/s1705), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1856](/us/stat/107/1856).)"
---
# § 1524. Agreements to provide support to vaccination programs of Department of Health and Human Services

##### § 1524. Agreements to provide support to vaccination programs of Department of Health and Human Services

(a) Agreements authorized The Secretary of Defense may enter into agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide support for vaccination programs of the Secretary of Health and Human Services in the United States through use of the excess peacetime biological weapons defense capability of the Department of Defense.

(b) Report Not later than February 1, 1994, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the feasibility of providing Department of Defense support for vaccination programs under subsection (a) and shall identify resource requirements that are not within the Department’s capability.

*([Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title XVII, § 1705](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tXVII/s1705), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1856](/us/stat/107/1856).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994, and not as part of [Pub. L. 91–121, title IV, § 409](/us/pl/91/121/tIV/s409), Nov. 19, 1969, [83 Stat. 209](/us/stat/83/209), which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Congressional Defense Committees” Defined

Congressional defense committees means the Committees on Armed Services and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 103–160](/us/pl/103/160/s3), [107 Stat. 1562](/us/stat/107/1562). See note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.
