---
title: "§ 1933. Funds for on and off reservation programs"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1933"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1933"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–608, title II, § 203](/us/pl/95/608/tII/s203), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3076](/us/stat/92/3076); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)"
---
# § 1933. Funds for on and off reservation programs

##### § 1933. Funds for on and off reservation programs

(a) Appropriated funds for similar programs of Department of Health and Human Services; appropriation in advance for payments In the establishment, operation, and funding of Indian child and family service programs, both on and off reservation, the Secretary may enter into agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the latter Secretary is hereby authorized for such purposes to use funds appropriated for similar programs of the Department of Health and Human Services: *Provided*, That authority to make payments pursuant to such agreements shall be effective only to the extent and in such amounts as may be provided in advance by appropriation Acts.

(b) Appropriation authorization under [section 13 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s13) Funds for the purposes of this chapter may be appropriated pursuant to the provisions of [section 13 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s13).

*([Pub. L. 95–608, title II, § 203](/us/pl/95/608/tII/s203), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3076](/us/stat/92/3076); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” and “Department of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” and “Department of Health, Education, and Welfare”, respectively, in subsec. (a) pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.
