---
title: "§ 12381. Authorization of circuit studies; education and training grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12381"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12381"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40421](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40421), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1944](/us/stat/108/1944); [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title IV, § 1406(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tIV/s1406/b/1), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1516](/us/stat/114/1516).)"
---
# § 12381. Authorization of circuit studies; education and training grants

##### § 12381. Authorization of circuit studies; education and training grants

(a) Studies In order to gain a better understanding of the nature and the extent of gender bias in the Federal courts, the circuit judicial councils are encouraged to conduct studies of the instances, if any, of gender bias in their respective circuits and to implement recommended reforms.

(b) Matters for examination The studies under subsection (a) may include an examination of the effects of gender on—

(1) the treatment of litigants, witnesses, attorneys, jurors, and judges in the courts, including before magistrate and bankruptcy judges;

(2) the interpretation and application of the law, both civil and criminal;

(3) treatment of defendants in criminal cases;

(4) treatment of victims of violent crimes in judicial proceedings;

(5) sentencing;

(6) sentencing alternatives and the nature of supervision of probation and parole;

(7) appointments to committees of the Judicial Conference and the courts;

(8) case management and court sponsored alternative dispute resolution programs;

(9) the selection, retention, promotion, and treatment of employees;

(10) appointment of arbitrators, experts, and special masters;

(11) the admissibility of the victim’s past sexual history in civil and criminal cases; and

(12) the aspects of the topics listed in [section 12372 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12372) that pertain to issues within the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.

(c) Clearinghouse The Administrative Office of the United States Courts shall act as a clearinghouse to disseminate any reports and materials issued by the gender bias task forces under subsection (a) and to respond to requests for such reports and materials. The gender bias task forces shall provide the Administrative Office of the Courts of the United States 11 So in original. Probably should be “Administrative Office of the United States Courts”. with their reports and related material.

(d) Continuing education and training programs The Federal Judicial Center, in carrying out [section 620(b)(3) of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s620/b/3), shall include in the educational programs it prepares, including the training programs for newly appointed judges, information on the aspects of the topics listed in [section 12372 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12372) that pertain to issues within the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, and shall prepare materials necessary to implement this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40421](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40421), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1944](/us/stat/108/1944); [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title IV, § 1406(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tIV/s1406/b/1), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1516](/us/stat/114/1516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14001 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14001), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2000—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 106–386](/us/pl/106/386) amended heading and text of subsec. (d) generally, substituting provisions relating to continuing education and training programs for provisions relating to model programs.
