---
title: "§ 8927. Expanded broadcasting in countries of the former Soviet Union"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8927"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8927"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–272, § 8](/us/pl/113/272/s8), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2964](/us/stat/128/2964).)"
---
# § 8927. Expanded broadcasting in countries of the former Soviet Union

##### § 8927. Expanded broadcasting in countries of the former Soviet Union

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after December 18, 2014, the Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors shall submit to Congress a plan, including a cost estimate, for immediately and substantially increasing, and maintaining through fiscal year 2017, the quantity of Russian-language broadcasting into the countries of the former Soviet Union funded by the United States in order to counter Russian Federation propaganda.

(b) Prioritization of broadcasting into Ukraine, Georgia, and Moldova The plan required by subsection (a) shall prioritize broadcasting into Ukraine, Georgia, and Moldova by the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.

(c) Additional priorities In developing the plan required by subsection (a), the Chairman shall consider—

(1) near-term increases in Russian-language broadcasting for countries of the former Soviet Union (other than the countries specified in subsection (b)), including Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia; and

(2) increases in broadcasting in other critical languages, including Ukrainian and Romanian languages.

(d) Broadcasting defined In this section, the term “broadcasting” means the distribution of media content via radio broadcasting, television broadcasting, and Internet-based platforms, among other platforms.

(e) Authorization of appropriations

(1) In general There are authorized to be appropriated to the Broadcasting Board of Governors $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2018 to carry out activities under this section.

(2) Supplement not supplant Amounts authorized to be appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall supplement and not supplant other amounts made available for activities described in this section.

*([Pub. L. 113–272, § 8](/us/pl/113/272/s8), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2964](/us/stat/128/2964).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Broadcasting Board of Governors renamed United States Agency for Global Media pursuant to [section 6204(a)(21) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6204/a/21). The renaming was effectuated by notice to congressional appropriations committees dated May 24, 2018, and became effective Aug. 22, 2018.
