---
title: "§ 106. Constitution Day and Citizenship Day"
identifier: "USC-T36-S106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1255](/us/stat/112/1255); [Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title I, § 111(c)(1)](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tI/s111/c/1), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/118/3344).)"
---
# § 106. Constitution Day and Citizenship Day

##### § 106. Constitution Day and Citizenship Day

(a) Designation.— September 17 is designated as Constitution Day and Citizenship Day.

(b) Purpose.— Constitution Day and Citizenship Day commemorate the formation and signing on September 17, 1787, of the Constitution and recognize all who, by coming of age or by naturalization, have become citizens.

(c) Proclamation.— The President may issue each year a proclamation calling on United States Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on Constitution Day and Citizenship Day and inviting the people of the United States to observe Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, in schools and churches, or other suitable places, with appropriate ceremonies.

(d) State and Local Observances.— The civil and educational authorities of States, counties, cities, and towns are urged to make plans for the proper observance of Constitution Day and Citizenship Day and for the complete instruction of citizens in their responsibilities and opportunities as citizens of the United States and of the State and locality in which they reside.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1255](/us/stat/112/1255); [Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title I, § 111(c)(1)](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tI/s111/c/1), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/118/3344).)*

In subsection (d), the text of 36:153 (last par.) is omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 106(a) | 36:153 (1st par. 1st–13th words). | Feb. 29, 1952, ch. 49, § 1, 66 Stat. 9. |
| 106(b) | 36:153 (1st par. 14th word–words before “and the President”). |  |
| 106(c) | 36:153 (1st par. words after “of citizenship”). |  |
| 106(d) | 36:153 (2d, last pars.). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—[Pub. L. 108–447, § 111(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/108/447/s111/c/1/A), inserted “Constitution Day and” before “Citizenship Day” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–447, § 111(c)(1)(B)](/us/pl/108/447/s111/c/1/B), substituted “is designated as Constitution Day and Citizenship Day” for “is Citizenship Day”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–447, § 111(c)(1)(C)](/us/pl/108/447/s111/c/1/C), inserted “Constitution Day and” before “Citizenship Day” and substituted “commemorate” for “commemorates” and “recognize” for “recognizes”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–447, § 111(c)(1)(D)](/us/pl/108/447/s111/c/1/D), inserted “Constitution Day and” before “Citizenship Day” in two places.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 108–447, § 111(c)(1)(E)](/us/pl/108/447/s111/c/1/E), inserted “Constitution Day and” before “Citizenship Day”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Educational and Training Materials for New Federal Employees Concerning the U.S. Constitution

[Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title I, § 111](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tI/s111), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/118/3344), provided that: “(a) The head of each Federal agency or department shall—“(1) provide each new employee of the agency or department with educational and training materials concerning the United States Constitution as part of the orientation materials provided to the new employee; and “(2) provide educational and training materials concerning the United States Constitution to each employee of the agency or department on September 17 of each year. “(b) Each educational institution that receives Federal funds for a fiscal year shall hold an educational program on the United States Constitution on September 17 of such year for the students served by the educational institution. “(c) [Amended [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s106) and table of contents of this chapter.] “(d) This section shall be without fiscal year limitation.”
