---
title: "§ 10251. Authorization to provide technical assistance for efforts against human rights abuses"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10251"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10251"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5578](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5578), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3370](/us/stat/136/3370).)"
---
# § 10251. Authorization to provide technical assistance for efforts against human rights abuses

##### § 10251. Authorization to provide technical assistance for efforts against human rights abuses

(a) In general The Secretary of State is authorized to provide assistance to support appropriate civilian or international entities that—

(1) identify suspected perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide in Burma;

(2) collect, document, and protect evidence of crimes in Burma and preserving the chain of custody for such evidence;

(3) conduct criminal investigations of such crimes; and

(4) support investigations related to Burma conducted by other countries, and by entities mandated by the United Nations, such as the Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar.

(b) Authorization for transitional justice mechanisms The Secretary of State, taking into account any relevant findings in the report submitted under section 5941,11 See References in Text note below. is authorized to provide support for the establishment and operation of transitional justice mechanisms, including a hybrid tribunal, to prosecute individuals suspected of committing war crimes, crimes against humanity, or genocide in Burma.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5578](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5578), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3370](/us/stat/136/3370).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 5941, referred to in subsec. (b), is unidentifiable in the original. Although [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) does contain a section 5941, that section is outside the BURMA Act of 2022, which comprises this chapter, and relates to the submission of a report by the Secretary of Agriculture on wholesale produce markets. Prior versions of the Act included a section requiring a report containing a study of the feasibility and desirability of a transitional justice mechanism for Burma, but that section did not appear in the version of the Act enacted by [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263).
