---
title: "§ 2394–1a. Classification of reports"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2394–1a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2394–1a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 634B, as added [Pub. L. 95–424, title V, § 502(c)](/us/pl/95/424/tV/s502/c), Oct. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 959](/us/stat/92/959).)"
---
# § 2394–1a. Classification of reports

##### § 2394–1a. Classification of reports

All information contained in any report transmitted under this chapter shall be public information. However, in the case of any item of information to be included in any such report that the President, on an extraordinary basis, determines is clearly detrimental to the security of the United States, he shall explain in a supplemental report why publication of each specific item would be detrimental to the security of the United States. A supplemental report shall be transmitted to the Congress at the time the report is transmitted.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 634B, as added [Pub. L. 95–424, title V, § 502(c)](/us/pl/95/424/tV/s502/c), Oct. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 959](/us/stat/92/959).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424), known as the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1978, see [section 605 of Pub. L. 95–424](/us/pl/95/424/s605), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
