---
title: "§ 878. Appropriations; purchases from"
identifier: "USC-T33-S878"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section878"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1901, ch. 853, § 1](/us/act/1901-03-03/ch853/s1), [31 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/31/1144); [Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, § 4](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552/s4), [32 Stat. 826](/us/stat/32/826).)"
---
# § 878. Appropriations; purchases from

##### § 878. Appropriations; purchases from

The Secretary of Commerce is authorized to purchase, from the appropriation for the National Ocean Survey, provisions, clothing, and small stores for the enlisted men, and food supplies for field parties working in remote localities, such provisions, clothing, small stores, and food supplies to be sold to the employees of said survey and the appropriation reimbursed.

*([Mar. 3, 1901, ch. 853, § 1](/us/act/1901-03-03/ch853/s1), [31 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/31/1144); [Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, § 4](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552/s4), [32 Stat. 826](/us/stat/32/826).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was a provision of the Sundry Civil Appropriation Act of Mar. 3, 1901.

Upon incorporation into the Code, the words “Secretary of Commerce” were substituted for “Secretary of the Treasury” to conform to act Feb. 14, 1903.

Section was formerly classified to [section 661 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s661) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 31, Money and Finance, by [Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 877](/us/stat/96/877).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Coast and Geodetic Survey consolidated with National Weather Bureau to form Environmental Science Services Administration by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1965, eff. July 13, 1965, 30 F.R. 8819, [79 Stat. 1318](/us/stat/79/1318). Environmental Science Services Administration abolished and its personnel, property, records, etc., transferred to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090). By order of Acting Associate Administrator of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 35 F.R. 19249, Dec. 19, 1970, Coast and Geodetic Survey redesignated National Ocean Survey. For further details, see note set out under [section 851 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s851).
