---
title: "§ 104. Agreements with applicants for patents as to disposition of oil or gas, or proceeds thereof, pending determination of title; Navy Petroleum Fund"
identifier: "USC-T30-S104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Mar. 2, 1911, ch. 201, § 2](/us/act/1911-03-02/ch201/s2), as added [Aug. 25, 1914, ch. 287](/us/act/1914-08-25/ch287), [38 Stat. 708](/us/stat/38/708).)"
---
# § 104. Agreements with applicants for patents as to disposition of oil or gas, or proceeds thereof, pending determination of title; Navy Petroleum Fund

##### § 104. Agreements with applicants for patents as to disposition of oil or gas, or proceeds thereof, pending determination of title; Navy Petroleum Fund

Where applications for patents have been or may be offered for any oil or gas land included in an order of withdrawal upon which oil or gas had been discovered, or was being produced prior to March 2, 1911, or upon which drilling operations were in actual progress on October 3, 1910, and oil or gas is thereafter discovered thereon, and where there has been no final determination by the Secretary of the Interior upon such applications for patent, said Secretary, in his discretion, may enter into agreements, under such conditions as he may prescribe with such applicants for patents in possession of such land or any portions thereof, relative to the disposition of the oil or gas produced therefrom or the proceeds thereof, pending final determination of the title thereto by the Secretary of the Interior, or such other disposition of the same as may be authorized by law. Any money which may accrue to the United States under the provisions of sections 103 and 104 of this title from lands within the Naval Petroleum Reserves shall be set aside for the needs of the Navy and deposited in the Treasury to the credit of a fund to be known as the Navy Petroleum Fund, which fund shall be applied to the needs of the Navy as Congress may from time to time direct, by appropriation or otherwise.

*([Mar. 2, 1911, ch. 201, § 2](/us/act/1911-03-02/ch201/s2), as added [Aug. 25, 1914, ch. 287](/us/act/1914-08-25/ch287), [38 Stat. 708](/us/stat/38/708).)*
