---
title: "§ 311. Congressional notification requirements"
identifier: "USC-T49-S311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–322, title IV, § 5001(a)](/us/pl/114/322/tIV/s5001/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1884](/us/stat/130/1884).)"
---
# § 311. Congressional notification requirements

##### § 311. Congressional notification requirements

(a) In General.— Except as provided in subsection (b) or as expressly provided in another provision of law, the Secretary of Transportation shall provide to the appropriate committees of Congress notice of an announcement concerning a covered project at least 3 full business days before the announcement is made by the Department.

(b) Emergency Program.— With respect to an allocation of funds under [section 125 of title 23](/us/usc/t23/s125), the Secretary shall provide to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate notice of the allocation—

(1) at least 3 full business days before the issuance of the allocation; or

(2) concurrently with the issuance of the allocation, if the allocation is made using the quick release process of the Department (or any successor process).

(c) Definitions.— In this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) Appropriate committees of congress.— The term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—

(A) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Environment and Public Works, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

(2) Covered project.— The term “covered project” means a project competitively selected by the Department to receive a discretionary grant award, letter of intent, loan commitment, loan guarantee commitment, or line of credit commitment in an amount equal to or greater than $750,000.

(3) Department.— The term “Department” means the Department of Transportation, including the modal administrations of the Department.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–322, title IV, § 5001(a)](/us/pl/114/322/tIV/s5001/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1884](/us/stat/130/1884).)*
