---
title: "§ 501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/112/1263).)"
---
# § 501. Definitions

##### § 501. Definitions

(1) “Inaugural Committee” means the committee appointed by the President-elect to be in charge of the Presidential inaugural ceremony and functions and activities connected with the ceremony; and

(2) “inaugural period” means the period that includes the day on which the Presidential inaugural ceremony is held, the 5 calendar days immediately preceding that day, and the 4 calendar days immediately following that day.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/112/1263).)*

In this chapter, the word “Mayor” is substituted for “Commissioners” in the Presidential Inaugural Ceremonies Act (ch. 974, [70 Stat. 1049](/us/stat/70/1049)) [subsequently changed to “Commissioner” in 36:ch. 30 because section 401 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1967 (5 App. U.S.C.) transferred the functions of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia to the Commissioner of the District of Columbia and because of 36:730] because of sections 421 and 711 of the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act ([Public Law 93–198](/us/pl/93/198), [87 Stat. 789](/us/stat/87/789), 818), which abolished the office of Commissioner of the District of Columbia and replaced it with the office of Mayor of the District of Columbia.

In this section, the text of 36:721(b)(3)–(5) is omitted because the complete names of the Mayor of the District of Columbia and the Secretaries of Defense and of the Interior are used the first time the terms appear in a section.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 501 | 36:721(b). | Aug. 6, 1956, ch. 974, § 1(b), 70 Stat. 1049. |
|  | 36:730. | Aug. 6, 1956, ch. 974, § 10, as added Jan. 30, 1968, Pub. L. 90–251, § 4, 82 Stat. 4. |
