---
title: "§ 397. Establishment; boundaries"
identifier: "USC-T16-S397"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section397"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1955, ch. 385, § 1](/us/act/1955-07-26/ch385/s1), [69 Stat. 376](/us/stat/69/376); [Pub. L. 95–625, title III, § 305](/us/pl/95/625/tIII/s305), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3477](/us/stat/92/3477); [Pub. L. 106–510, § 3(d)(1)](/us/pl/106/510/s3/d/1), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2364](/us/stat/114/2364); [Pub. L. 107–340, § 2](/us/pl/107/340/s2), Dec. 16, 2002, [116 Stat. 2889](/us/stat/116/2889).)"
---
# § 397. Establishment; boundaries

##### § 397. Establishment; boundaries

(a) Establishment When title to such lands located on the island of Hawaii, within the following-described area, as shall be designated by the Secretary of the Interior, in the exercise of his judgment and discretion as necessary and suitable for the purpose, shall have been vested in the United States, said lands shall be set apart as the Puʻuhonua o Ho̅naunau National Historical Park, in the Territory of Hawaii, for the benefit and inspiration of the people:

(b) Boundary modification The boundaries of Puʻuhonua o Ho̅naunau National Historical Park are hereby modified to include approximately 238 acres of lands and interests therein within the area identified as “Parcel A” on the map entitled “Puʻuhonua o Ho̅naunau National Historical Park Proposed Boundary Additions, Kiʻilae Village”, numbered PUHO–P 415/82,013 and dated May, 2001.

(c) Acquisition The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire approximately 159 acres of lands and interests therein within the area identified as “Parcel B” on the map referenced in subsection (b). Upon the acquisition of such lands or interests therein, the Secretary shall modify the boundaries of Puʻuhonua o Ho̅naunau National Historical Park to include such lands or interests therein.

*([July 26, 1955, ch. 385, § 1](/us/act/1955-07-26/ch385/s1), [69 Stat. 376](/us/stat/69/376); [Pub. L. 95–625, title III, § 305](/us/pl/95/625/tIII/s305), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3477](/us/stat/92/3477); [Pub. L. 106–510, § 3(d)(1)](/us/pl/106/510/s3/d/1), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2364](/us/stat/114/2364); [Pub. L. 107–340, § 2](/us/pl/107/340/s2), Dec. 16, 2002, [116 Stat. 2889](/us/stat/116/2889).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—[Pub. L. 107–340](/us/pl/107/340) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), substituted “When” for “That, when”, and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

2000—[Pub. L. 106–510](/us/pl/106/510) substituted “Puʻuhonua o Ho̅naunau National Historical Park” for “Puuhonua o Honaunau National Historical Park” in introductory provisions.

1978—[Pub. L. 95–625](/us/pl/95/625) redesignated as “Puuhonua o Honaunau National Historical Park” the Park previously designated “City of Refuge National Historical Park”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

[Pub. L. 106–510, § 3(d)(2)](/us/pl/106/510/s3/d/2), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2364](/us/stat/114/2364), provided that: “Any reference in any law (other than this Act [see Short Title of 2000 Amendments note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1)]), regulation, document, record, map, or other paper of the United States to ‘Puuhonua o Honaunau National Historical Park[’] shall be considered a reference to ‘Puʻuhonua o Ho̅naunau National Historical Park’.”

#### Short Title of 2002 Amendment

[Pub. L. 107–340, § 1](/us/pl/107/340/s1), Dec. 16, 2002, [116 Stat. 2889](/us/stat/116/2889), provided that: “This Act [amending this section] may be cited as the ‘Puʻuhonua o Ho̅naunau National Historical Park Addition Act of 2002’.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Admission of Hawaii as State

Admission of Hawaii into the Union was accomplished Aug. 21, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3309, Aug. 21, 1959, 24 F.R. 6868, 73 Stat. c74, as required by sections 1 and 7(c) of [Pub. L. 86–3](/us/pl/86/3), Mar. 18, 1959, [73 Stat. 4](/us/stat/73/4), set out as notes preceding [section 491 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s491), Territories and Insular Possessions.
