---
title: "§ 2101a. State-wide assessment and strategies for forest resources"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2101a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2101a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–313, § 2A](/us/pl/95/313/s2A), as added [Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, § 8002](/us/pl/110/234/tVIII/s8002), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/122/1280), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title VIII, § 8002, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2041; amended [Pub. L. 113–79, title VIII, § 8101](/us/pl/113/79/tVIII/s8101), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 914](/us/stat/128/914); [Pub. L. 115–334, title VIII, § 8101](/us/pl/115/334/tVIII/s8101), Dec. 20, 2"
---
# § 2101a. State-wide assessment and strategies for forest resources

##### § 2101a. State-wide assessment and strategies for forest resources

(a) Assessment and strategies for forest resources For a State to be eligible to receive funds under the authorities of this chapter, the State forester of that State or equivalent State official shall develop and submit to the Secretary, not later than two years after the date of enactment of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, the following:

(1) A State-wide assessment of forest resource conditions, including—

(A) the conditions and trends of forest resources in that State;

(B) the threats to forest lands and resources in that State consistent with the national priorities specified in [section 2101(c) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2101/c);

(C) any areas or regions of that State that are a priority; and

(D) any multi-State areas that are a regional priority.

(2) A long-term State-wide forest resource strategy, including—

(A) strategies for addressing threats to forest resources in the State outlined in the assessment required by paragraph (1); and

(B) a description of the resources necessary for the State forester or equivalent State official from all sources to address the State-wide strategy.

(b) Updating At such times as the Secretary determines to be necessary, the State forester or equivalent State official shall update and resubmit to the Secretary the State-wide assessment and State-wide strategy required by subsection (a).

(c) Coordination In developing or updating the State-wide assessment and State-wide strategy required by subsection (a), the State Forester or equivalent State official shall coordinate with—

(1) the State Forest Stewardship Coordinating Committee established for the State under [section 2113(b) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2113/b);

(2) the State wildlife agency, with respect to strategies contained in the State wildlife action plans;

(3) the State Technical Committee;

(4) applicable Federal land management agencies;

(5) as feasible, appropriate military installations where the voluntary participation and management of private or State-owned or other public forestland is able to support, promote, and contribute to the missions of such installations; and

(6) for purposes of the Forest Legacy Program under [section 2103c of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2103c), the State lead agency designated by the Governor.

(d) Incorporation of other plans In developing or updating the State-wide assessment and State-wide strategy required by subsection (a), the State forester or equivalent State official shall incorporate any forest management plan of the State, including community wildfire protection plans and State wildlife action plans.

(e) Sufficiency Once approved by the Secretary, a State-wide assessment and State-wide strategy developed under subsection (a) shall be deemed to be sufficient to satisfy all relevant State planning and assessment requirements under this chapter.

(f) Funding

(1) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section up to $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2023.

(2) Additional funding sources In addition to the funds appropriated for a fiscal year pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in paragraph (1) to carry out this section, the Secretary may use any other funds made available for planning under this chapter to carry out this section, except that the total amount of combined funding used to carry out this section may not exceed $10,000,000 in any fiscal year.

(g) Annual report on use of funds The State forester or equivalent State official shall submit to the Secretary an annual report detailing how funds made available to the State under this chapter are being used.

*([Pub. L. 95–313, § 2A](/us/pl/95/313/s2A), as added [Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, § 8002](/us/pl/110/234/tVIII/s8002), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/122/1280), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title VIII, § 8002, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2041; amended [Pub. L. 113–79, title VIII, § 8101](/us/pl/113/79/tVIII/s8101), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 914](/us/stat/128/914); [Pub. L. 115–334, title VIII, § 8101](/us/pl/115/334/tVIII/s8101), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4837](/us/stat/132/4837).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a), (e), (f)(2), and (g), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–313](/us/pl/95/313), July 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 365](/us/stat/92/365), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2101) and Tables.

The date of enactment of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246), which was approved June 18, 2008.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (f)(1). [Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334) substituted “2023” for “2018”.

2014—Subsec. (c)(5), (6). [Pub. L. 113–79, § 8101(1)](/us/pl/113/79/s8101/1), added par. (5) and redesignated former par. (5) as (6).

Subsec. (f)(1). [Pub. L. 113–79, § 8101(2)](/us/pl/113/79/s8101/2), substituted “2018” for “2012”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Enactment of this section and repeal of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234), see [section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4), set out as a note under [section 8701 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8701), Agriculture.
