---
title: "§ 366. Withdrawn international application"
identifier: "USC-T35-S366"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-12"
last_updated: "2025-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title35-section366"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "35"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 94–131, § 1](/us/pl/94/131/s1), Nov. 14, 1975, [89 Stat. 687](/us/stat/89/687); amended [Pub. L. 98–622, title IV, § 401(b)](/us/pl/98/622/tIV/s401/b), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3391](/us/stat/98/3391); [Pub. L. 112–211, title I, § 102(9)](/us/pl/112/211/tI/s102/9), Dec. 18, 2012, [126 Stat. 1532](/us/stat/126/1532).)"
---
# § 366. Withdrawn international application

##### § 366. Withdrawn international application

Subject to section 367 of this part, if an international application designating the United States is withdrawn or considered withdrawn, either generally or as to the United States, under the conditions of the treaty and the Regulations, before the applicant has complied with the applicable requirements prescribed by section 371(c) of this part, the designation of the United States shall have no effect after the date of withdrawal, and shall be considered as not having been made, unless a claim for benefit of a prior filing date under section 365(c) of this section 11 So in original. was made in a national application, or an international application designating the United States, or a claim for benefit under section 386(c) was made in an international design application designating the United States, filed before the date of such withdrawal. However, such withdrawn international application may serve as the basis for a claim of priority under section 365(a) and (b), or under section 386(a) or (b), if it designated a country other than the United States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 94–131, § 1](/us/pl/94/131/s1), Nov. 14, 1975, [89 Stat. 687](/us/stat/89/687); amended [Pub. L. 98–622, title IV, § 401(b)](/us/pl/98/622/tIV/s401/b), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3391](/us/stat/98/3391); [Pub. L. 112–211, title I, § 102(9)](/us/pl/112/211/tI/s102/9), Dec. 18, 2012, [126 Stat. 1532](/us/stat/126/1532).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2012—[Pub. L. 112–211](/us/pl/112/211) substituted “unless a claim for benefit of a prior filing date under section 365(c) of this section was made in a national application, or an international application designating the United States, or a claim for benefit under section 386(c) was made in an international design application designating the United States, filed before the date of such withdrawal.” for “unless a claim for the benefit of a prior filing date under section 365(c) of this part was made in a national application, or an international application designating the United States, filed before the date of such withdrawal.” and “However, such withdrawn international application may serve as the basis for a claim of priority under section 365(a) and (b), or under section 386(a) or (b), if it designated a country other than the United States.” for “However, such withdrawn international application may serve as the basis for a claim of priority under section 365(a) and (b) of this part, if it designated a country other than the United States.”

1984—[Pub. L. 98–622](/us/pl/98/622) inserted “after the date of withdrawal,” after “effect” and “, unless a claim for the benefit of a prior filing date under section 365(c) of this part was made in a national application, or an international application designating the United States, filed before the date of such withdrawal” after “having been made” in first sentence, and inserted “withdrawn” after “such” in second sentence.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–211](/us/pl/112/211) effective on the later of the date that is 1 year after Dec. 18, 2012, or the date that the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Industrial Designs enters into force with respect to the United States (May 13, 2015), and applicable only to certain applications filed on and after that effective date and patents issuing thereon, see [section 103 of Pub. L. 112–211](/us/pl/112/211/s103), set out as a note under [section 100 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s100).

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–622](/us/pl/98/622) effective six months after Nov. 8, 1984, see [section 406(b) of Pub. L. 98–622](/us/pl/98/622/s406/b), set out as a note under [section 3 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s3).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 24, 1978, and applicable to international and national applications filed on and after that date, see [section 11 of Pub. L. 94–131](/us/pl/94/131/s11), set out as a note under [section 351 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s351).
