---
title: "§ 620. Relay services for deaf-blind individuals"
identifier: "USC-T47-S620"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section620"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VII, § 719, as added [Pub. L. 111–260, title I, § 105](/us/pl/111/260/tI/s105), Oct. 8, 2010, [124 Stat. 2762](/us/stat/124/2762); amended [Pub. L. 111–265, § 2(4)](/us/pl/111/265/s2/4), (5), Oct. 8, 2010, [124 Stat. 2795](/us/stat/124/2795).)"
---
# § 620. Relay services for deaf-blind individuals

##### § 620. Relay services for deaf-blind individuals

(a) In general Within 6 months after October 8, 2010, the Commission shall establish rules that define as eligible for relay service support those programs that are approved by the Commission for the distribution of specialized customer premises equipment designed to make telecommunications service, Internet access service, and advanced communications, including interexchange services and advanced telecommunications and information services, accessible by low-income individuals who are deaf-blind.

(b) Individuals who are deaf-blind defined For purposes of this subsection,11 So in original. Probably should be “section,”. the term “individuals who are deaf-blind” has the same meaning given such term in the Helen Keller National Center Act, as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 ([29 U.S.C. 1905(2)](/us/usc/t29/s1905/2)).

(c) Annual amount The total amount of support the Commission may provide from its interstate relay fund for any fiscal year may not exceed $10,000,000.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VII, § 719, as added [Pub. L. 111–260, title I, § 105](/us/pl/111/260/tI/s105), Oct. 8, 2010, [124 Stat. 2762](/us/stat/124/2762); amended [Pub. L. 111–265, § 2(4)](/us/pl/111/265/s2/4), (5), Oct. 8, 2010, [124 Stat. 2795](/us/stat/124/2795).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Helen Keller National Center Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is title II of [Pub. L. 98–221](/us/pl/98/221), Feb. 22, 1984, [98 Stat. 32](/us/stat/98/32), which is classified principally to chapter 21 (§ 1901 et seq.) of Title 29, Labor. The term “individuals who are deaf-blind” is defined in section 206(2) of the Act, as amended by [Pub. L. 102–569](/us/pl/102/569), which is classified to [section 1905(2) of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s1905/2). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1901 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s1901) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–265, § 2(5)](/us/pl/111/265/s2/5), inserted “low-income” after “accessible by”.

[Pub. L. 111–265, § 2(4)](/us/pl/111/265/s2/4), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to “October 8, 2010”.
