---
title: "§ 300jj–36. Information technology professionals in health care"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300jj–36"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300jj–36"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXX, § 3016, as added [Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13301](/us/pl/111/5/dA/tXIII/s13301), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 257](/us/stat/123/257).)"
---
# § 300jj–36. Information technology professionals in health care

##### § 300jj–36. Information technology professionals in health care

(a) In general The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the National Science Foundation, shall provide assistance to institutions of higher education (or consortia thereof) to establish or expand medical health informatics education programs, including certification, undergraduate, and masters degree programs, for both health care and information technology students to ensure the rapid and effective utilization and development of health information technologies (in the United States health care infrastructure).

(b) Activities Activities for which assistance may be provided under subsection (a) may include the following:

(1) Developing and revising curricula in medical health informatics and related disciplines.

(2) Recruiting and retaining students to the program involved.

(3) Acquiring equipment necessary for student instruction in these programs, including the installation of testbed networks for student use.

(4) Establishing or enhancing bridge programs in the health informatics fields between community colleges and universities.

(c) Priority In providing assistance under subsection (a), the Secretary shall give preference to the following:

(1) Existing education and training programs.

(2) Programs designed to be completed in less than six months.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXX, § 3016, as added [Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13301](/us/pl/111/5/dA/tXIII/s13301), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 257](/us/stat/123/257).)*
