---
title: "§ 8202. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–188, title II, § 202](/us/pl/116/188/tII/s202), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 925](/us/stat/134/925).)"
---
# § 8202. Definitions

##### § 8202. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives.

(2) Board The term “Board” means the National Fish Habitat Board established by [section 8203 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8203).

(3) Director The term “Director” means the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.

(4) Environmental Protection Agency Assistant Administrator The term “Environmental Protection Agency Assistant Administrator” means the Assistant Administrator for Water of the Environmental Protection Agency.

(5) Indian Tribe The term “Indian Tribe” has the meaning given to the term “Indian tribe” in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(6) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Assistant Administrator The term “National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Assistant Administrator” means the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(7) Partnership The term “Partnership” means an entity designated by Congress as a Fish Habitat Partnership under [section 8204 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s8204).

(8) Real property interest The term “real property interest” means an ownership interest in—

(A) land; or

(B) water (including water rights).

(9) Marine Fisheries Commissions The term “Marine Fisheries Commissions” means—

(A) the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission;

(B) the Gulf States Marine Fisheries Commission; and

(C) the Pacific States Marine Commission.

(10) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(11) State The term “State” means each of the several States, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia.

(12) State agency The term “State agency” means—

(A) the fish and wildlife agency of a State; and

(B) any department or division of a department or agency of a State that manages in the public trust the inland or marine fishery resources of the State or sustains the habitat for those fishery resources pursuant to State law or the constitution of the State.

*([Pub. L. 116–188, title II, § 202](/us/pl/116/188/tII/s202), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 925](/us/stat/134/925).)*
