---
title: "§ 2194. Shanghaiing sailors"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2194"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2194"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 800](/us/stat/62/800); [Pub. L. 104–294, title VI, § 601(a)(8)](/us/pl/104/294/tVI/s601/a/8), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3498](/us/stat/110/3498).)"
---
# § 2194. Shanghaiing sailors

##### § 2194. Shanghaiing sailors

Whoever, with intent that any person shall perform service or labor of any kind on board of any vessel engaged in trade and commerce among the several States or with foreign nations, or on board of any vessel of the United States engaged in navigating the high seas or any navigable water of the United States, procures or induces, or attempts to procure or induce, another, by force or threats or by representations which he knows or believes to be untrue, or while the person so procured or induced is intoxicated or under the influence of any drug, to go on board of any such vessel, or to sign or in anywise enter into any agreement to go on board of any such vessel to perform service or labor thereon; or

Whoever knowingly detains on board of any such vessel any person so procured or induced to go on board, or to enter into any agreement to go on board, by any means herein defined—

Shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 800](/us/stat/62/800); [Pub. L. 104–294, title VI, § 601(a)(8)](/us/pl/104/294/tVI/s601/a/8), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3498](/us/stat/110/3498).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 144 ([Mar. 4, 1909, ch. 321, § 82](/us/act/1909-03-04/ch321/s82), [35 Stat. 1103](/us/stat/35/1103)).

Reference to persons aiding or abetting was omitted as unnecessary as such persons are made principals by [section 2 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s2).

Minor changes were made in phraseology and arrangement.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–294](/us/pl/104/294) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $1,000” in last par.
