---
title: "§ 6236. Ministerial issuance, or amendment authorization"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6236"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6236"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title V, § 507](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tV/s507), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 297](/us/stat/117/297).)"
---
# § 6236. Ministerial issuance, or amendment authorization

##### § 6236. Ministerial issuance, or amendment authorization

(a) NEPA exception The ministerial issuance or amendment of an organizational camp special use authorization shall not be subject to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ([42 U.S.C. 4321](/us/usc/t42/s4321) et seq.).

(b) Rule of construction For purposes of subsection (a), the ministerial issuance or amendment of an authorization occurs only when the issuance or amendment of the authorization would not change the physical environment or the activities, facilities, or program of the operations governed by the authorization, and at least one of the following apply:

(1) The authorization is issued upon a change in control of the holder of an existing authorization.

(2) The holder, upon expiration of an authorization, is issued a new authorization.

(3) The authorization is amended—

(A) to effectuate administrative changes, such as modification of the land use fee or conversion to a new special use authorization form; or

(B) to include nondiscretionary environmental standards or to conform with current law.

*([Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title V, § 507](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tV/s507), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 297](/us/stat/117/297).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 91–190](/us/pl/91/190), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 852](/us/stat/83/852), which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4321 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4321) and Tables.
