---
title: "§ 21003. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T36-S21003"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section21003"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–354, § 1(5)(A)](/us/pl/105/354/s1/5/A), Nov. 3, 1998, [112 Stat. 3242](/us/stat/112/3242).)"
---
# § 21003. Purposes

##### § 21003. Purposes

(a) General.— The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its bylaws and articles of incorporation and include—

(1) securing the blessing of American democracy at every level of local, State, and national life for all United States citizens;

(2) upholding and defending the Constitution and the United States flag;

(3) fostering and perpetuating the principles of American democracy based on religious and political freedom for the individual and equal opportunity for all;

(4) fostering and enlarging equal educational opportunities, equal economic opportunities, equal justice under the law, and equal political opportunities for all United States citizens, regardless of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin;

(5) encouraging greater participation of the ethnic minority represented by the corporation in the policy-making and administrative activities of all departments, agencies, and other governmental units of local and State governments and the United States Government;

(6) combating all practices of a prejudicial or discriminatory nature in local, State, or national life which curtail, hinder, or deny to any United States citizen an equal opportunity to develop full potential as an individual; and

(7) fostering and promoting the broader knowledge and appreciation by all United States citizens of their cultural heritage and language.

(b) Corporate Function.— The corporation shall function as an educational, patriotic, civic, historical, and research organization under the laws of Texas.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–354, § 1(5)(A)](/us/pl/105/354/s1/5/A), Nov. 3, 1998, [112 Stat. 3242](/us/stat/112/3242).)*

In clause (5), the words “United States Government” are substituted for “Federal Government” for consistency in the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 21003(a) | 36 App.:5903. | Aug. 13, 1998, Pub. L. 105–231, §§ 3, 8(f), 112 Stat. 1530, 1531. |
| 21003(b) | 36 App.:5908(f). |  |
