---
title: "§ 1701v. Congressional findings and declaration for improved architectural design in Government housing programs"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701v"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701v"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–448, § 4](/us/pl/90/448/s4), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 477](/us/stat/82/477).)"
---
# § 1701v. Congressional findings and declaration for improved architectural design in Government housing programs

##### § 1701v. Congressional findings and declaration for improved architectural design in Government housing programs

The Congress finds that Federal aids to housing have not contributed fully to improvement in architectural standards. This objective has been contemplated in Federal housing legislation since the establishment of mortgage insurance through the Federal Housing Administration.

The Congress commends the Department of Housing and Urban Development for its recent efforts to improve architectural standards through competitive design awards and in other ways but at the same time recognizes that this important objective requires high priority if Federal aid is to make its full communitywide contribution toward improving our urban environment.

The Congress further finds that even within the necessary budget limitations on housing for low and moderate income families architectural design could be improved not only to make the housing more attractive, but to make it better suited to the needs of occupants.

The Congress declares that in the administration of housing programs which assist in the provision of housing for low and moderate income families, emphasis should be given to encouraging good design as an essential component of such housing and to developing housing which will be of such quality as to reflect its important relationship to the architectural standards of the neighborhood and community in which it is situated, consistent with prudent budgeting.

*([Pub. L. 90–448, § 4](/us/pl/90/448/s4), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 477](/us/stat/82/477).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.
