---
title: "§ 46107. Enforcement by the Attorney General"
identifier: "USC-T49-S46107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section46107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/108/1229); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 140(b)(1)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s140/b/1), (2), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 641](/us/stat/115/641); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(f)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/f/1)–(4), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3642](/us/stat/132/3642).)"
---
# § 46107. Enforcement by the Attorney General

##### § 46107. Enforcement by the Attorney General

(a) Civil Actions To Enforce Section 40106(b).— The Attorney General may bring a civil action in a district court of the United States against a person to enforce [section 40106(b) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s40106/b). The action may be brought in the judicial district in which the person does business or the violation occurred.

(b) Civil Actions To Enforce This Part.—

(1) On request of the Secretary of Transportation (or the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration or the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to aviation safety duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration), the Attorney General may bring a civil action in an appropriate court—

(A) to enforce this part or a requirement or regulation prescribed, or an order or any term of a certificate or permit issued, under this part; and

(B) to prosecute a person violating this part or a requirement or regulation prescribed, or an order or any term of a certificate or permit issued, under this part.

(2) The costs and expenses of a civil action shall be paid out of the appropriations for the expenses of the courts of the United States.

(c) Participation of Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, or Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.— On request of the Attorney General, the Secretary, Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, or Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, as appropriate, may participate in a civil action under this part.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/108/1229); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 140(b)(1)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s140/b/1), (2), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 641](/us/stat/115/641); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(f)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/f/1)–(4), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3642](/us/stat/132/3642).)*

In subsection (a), the words “may bring a civil action” are substituted for “may apply” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code and rule 2 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 App. U.S.C.). The text of 49 App.:1487(a) (words after semicolon related to Attorney General) is omitted as surplus because of 28:1651 and rule 81(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

In subsection (b)(1), before clause (A), the words “Attorney General” are substituted for “any district attorney of the United States to whom the Board or Secretary of Transportation may apply”, and the words “under the direction of the Attorney General” are omitted, because of 28:503 and 509. The words “bring a civil action” are substituted for “institute . . . and to prosecute . . . all necessary proceedings” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code and rule 2 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. In clauses (A) and (B), the words “prescribed” and “issued” are added for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code. The words “condition, or limitation” are omitted as being included in “term”.

In subsection (b)(2), the words “civil action” are substituted for “prosecutions” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code.

In subsection (c), the words “civil action” are substituted for “proceeding in court” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code and rule 2 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 46107(a) | 49 App.:1487(a) (related to Attorney General). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, § 1007(a) (related to Attorney General), 72 Stat. 796; Aug. 5, 1974, Pub. L. 93–366, § 108, 88 Stat. 414. |
| 46107(b) | 49 App.:1487(b) (related to Secretary and CAB). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, §§ 1007(b) (related to Administrator and CAB), 1008 (related to Administrator and CAB), 72 Stat. 796. |
|  | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 1601(b)(1)(E); added Oct. 4, 1984, Pub. L. 98–443, § 3(e), 98 Stat. 1704. |
|  | 49 App.:1655(c)(1). | Oct. 15, 1966, Pub. L. 89–670, § 6(c)(1), 80 Stat. 938; Jan. 12, 1983, Pub. L. 97–449, § 7(b), 96 Stat. 2444. |
| 46107(c) | 49 App.:1488 (related to Secretary and CAB). |  |
|  | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). |  |
|  | 49 App.:1655(c)(1). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(f)(3)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/f/3), substituted “by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration)” for “by the Administrator)” in introductory provisions.

[Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(f)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/f/1), in introductory provisions, substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Under Secretary”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(f)(4)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/f/4), which directed substitution of “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration,” for “Under Secretary,”, was executed by making the substitution in heading and text to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

[Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(f)(2)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/f/2), which directed substitution of “or Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration” for “or Administrator”, was executed by making the substitution in heading and text to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

2001—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(b)(1)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/b/1), in introductory provisions, inserted “the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Under Secretary or” after “(or”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 140(b)(2)](/us/pl/107/71/s140/b/2), substituted “, Under Secretary, or Administrator” for “or Administrator” in heading and text.
