---
title: "§ 1949. Beneficiaries"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1949"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1949"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1160](/us/stat/72/1160), § 749; renumbered § 1949, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406); amended [Pub. L. 117–313, § 3(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/313/s3/b/1), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4400](/us/stat/136/4400).)"
---
# § 1949. Beneficiaries

##### § 1949. Beneficiaries

(a) Designation.— A person who enrolls in United States Government life insurance may designate a beneficiary of the insurance policy. Subject to regulations, the insured person shall at all times have the right to change the beneficiary or beneficiaries of a United States Government life insurance policy without the consent of such beneficiary or beneficiaries.

(b) Determination in Cases of Non-Designation.— If a person enrolled in United States Government life insurance does not designate a beneficiary under subsection (a) before the insured person dies, or if a designated beneficiary predeceases the insured person, the Secretary shall determine the beneficiary in the following order:

(1) The surviving spouse of the insured person.

(2) The children of the insured person and descendants of deceased children by representation.

(3) The parents of the insured person or the survivors of the parents.

(4) The duly appointed executor or administrator of the estate of the insured person.

(5) Other next of kin of the insured person entitled under the laws of domicile of the insured person at the time of the death of the insured person.

*([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1160](/us/stat/72/1160), § 749; renumbered § 1949, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406); amended [Pub. L. 117–313, § 3(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/313/s3/b/1), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4400](/us/stat/136/4400).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–313](/us/pl/117/313) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Subject to regulations, the insured shall at all times have the right to change the beneficiary or beneficiaries of a United States Government life insurance policy without the consent of such beneficiary or beneficiaries.”

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) renumbered [section 749 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s749) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–313](/us/pl/117/313) applicable with respect to the death of an insured person occurring on or after the date that is two years before Dec. 27, 2022, see [section 3(c) of Pub. L. 117–313](/us/pl/117/313/s3/c), set out as a note under [section 1917 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1917).
