---
title: "§ 47523. National aviation noise policy"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47523"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47523"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1288](/us/stat/108/1288).)"
---
# § 47523. National aviation noise policy

##### § 47523. National aviation noise policy

(a) General Requirements.— Not later than July 1, 1991, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish by regulation a national aviation noise policy that considers this subchapter, including the phaseout and nonaddition of stage 2 aircraft as provided in this subchapter and dates for carrying out that policy and reporting requirements consistent with this subchapter and law existing as of November 5, 1990.

(b) Detailed Economic Analysis.— The policy shall be based on a detailed economic analysis of the impact of the phaseout date for stage 2 aircraft on competition in the airline industry, including—

(1) the ability of air carriers to achieve capacity growth consistent with the projected rate of growth for the airline industry;

(2) the impact of competition in the airline and air cargo industries;

(3) the impact on nonhub and small community air service; and

(4) the impact on new entry into the airline industry.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1288](/us/stat/108/1288).)*

In this section, the text of 49 App.:2152(c) is omitted as executed.

In subsection (a), the words “(hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the ‘Secretary’)” are omitted because of the restatement. The words “this subchapter” (the first time they appear) are substituted for “the findings, determinations, and provisions of this chapter” to eliminate unnecessary words.

Subsection (b) is tabulated for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 47523 | 49 App.:2152. | Nov. 5, 1990, Pub. L. 101–508, § 9303, 104 Stat. 1388–378. |
