---
title: "§ 16462. Service allocation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16462"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16462"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title XII, § 1275](/us/pl/109/58/tXII/s1275), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 977](/us/stat/119/977).)"
---
# § 16462. Service allocation

##### § 16462. Service allocation

(a) Definition of public utility In this section, the term “public utility” has the meaning given the term in [section 824(e) of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s824/e).

(b) FERC review In the case of non-power goods or administrative or management services provided by an associate company organized specifically for the purpose of providing such goods or services to any public utility in the same holding company system, at the election of the system or a State commission having jurisdiction over the public utility, the Commission, after the effective date of this part, shall review and authorize the allocation of the costs for such goods or services to the extent relevant to that associate company.

(c) Effect on Federal and State law Nothing in this section shall affect the authority of the Commission or a State commission under other applicable law.

(d) Rules Not later than 4 months after August 8, 2005, the Commission shall issue rules (which rules shall be effective no earlier than the effective date of this part) to exempt from the requirements of this section any company in a holding company system whose public utility operations are confined substantially to a single State and any other class of transactions that the Commission finds is not relevant to the jurisdictional rates of a public utility.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title XII, § 1275](/us/pl/109/58/tXII/s1275), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 977](/us/stat/119/977).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For the effective date of this part, referred to in subsecs. (b) and (d), see Effective Date note set out under [section 16451 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16451).
