---
title: "§ 14906. Officers eligible to serve on boards"
identifier: "USC-T10-S14906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section14906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2960](/us/stat/108/2960); amended [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 504(b)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s504/b), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 591](/us/stat/113/591).)"
---
# § 14906. Officers eligible to serve on boards

##### § 14906. Officers eligible to serve on boards

(a) Composition of Boards.— Each board convened under this chapter shall consist of officers appointed as follows:

(1) Each member of the board shall be an officer of the same armed force as the officer being required to show cause for retention in an active status.

(2) Each member of the board shall hold a grade above major or lieutenant commander, except that at least one member of the board shall hold a grade above lieutenant colonel or commander.

(3) Each member of the board shall be senior in grade to any officer to be considered by the board.

(b) Limitation.— A person may not be a member of more than one board convened under this chapter to consider the same officer.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2960](/us/stat/108/2960); amended [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 504(b)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s504/b), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 591](/us/stat/113/591).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1999—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65) amended heading and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(1) Each officer who serves on a board convened under this chapter shall be an officer of the same armed force as the officer being required to show cause for retention in an active status.

“(2) An officer may not serve on a board under this chapter unless the officer holds a grade above lieutenant colonel or commander and is senior in grade and rank to any officer considered by the board.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 1691(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691/b/1), set out as a note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).
