---
title: "§ 4502. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, § 3](/us/pl/116/113/s3), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 13](/us/stat/134/13).)"
---
# § 4502. Definitions

##### § 4502. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.

(2) HTS The term “HTS” means the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.

(3) Identical goods The term “identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the rule of origin that qualifies the goods as originating goods.

(4) International Trade Commission The term “International Trade Commission” means the United States International Trade Commission.

(5) Mexico The term “Mexico” means the United Mexican States.

(6) NAFTA The term “NAFTA” means the North American Free Trade Agreement approved by Congress under section 101(a)(1) of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act ([19 U.S.C. 3311(a)(1)](/us/usc/t19/s3311/a/1)).11 See References in Text note below.

(7) Preferential tariff treatment The term “preferential tariff treatment” means the customs duty rate that is applicable to an originating good (as defined in [section 4531(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4531/a)) under the USMCA.

(8) Trade Representative The term “Trade Representative” means the United States Trade Representative.

(9) USMCA The term “USMCA” means the Agreement between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada, which is—

(A) attached as an Annex to the Protocol Replacing the North American Free Trade Agreement with the Agreement between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada, done at Buenos Aires on November 30, 2018, as amended by the Protocol of Amendment to the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada, done at Mexico City on December 10, 2019; and

(B) approved by Congress under [section 4511(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4511/a/1).

(10) USMCA country Except as otherwise provided, the term “USMCA country” means—

(A) Canada for such time as the USMCA is in force with respect to, and the United States applies the USMCA to, Canada; and

(B) Mexico for such time as the USMCA is in force with respect to, and the United States applies the USMCA to, Mexico.

*([Pub. L. 116–113, § 3](/us/pl/116/113/s3), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 13](/us/stat/134/13).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 116–113](/us/pl/116/113), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 11](/us/stat/134/11), known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4501 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4501) and Tables.

The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, referred to in par. (2), is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under [section 1202 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1202).

Section 101(a)(1) of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, referred to in par. (6), is [section 101(a)(1) of Pub. L. 103–182](/us/pl/103/182/s101/a/1), title I, Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2061](/us/stat/107/2061), which was classified to [section 3511 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3511) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 116–113, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/116/113/tVI/s601), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 78](/us/stat/134/78), effective on the date on which the USMCA entered into force (July 1, 2020).
