---
title: "§ 5713. Administration and applicability of subchapter"
identifier: "USC-T15-S5713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section5713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–556, title II, § 203](/us/pl/102/556/tII/s203), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4191](/us/stat/106/4191).)"
---
# § 5713. Administration and applicability of subchapter

##### § 5713. Administration and applicability of subchapter

(a) In general Except as otherwise provided in [section 5712 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s5712), this subchapter shall be enforced by the Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act ([15 U.S.C. 41](/us/usc/t15/s41) et seq.). Consequently, no activity which is outside the jurisdiction of that Act shall be affected by this chapter, except for purposes of this subchapter.

(b) Actions by Commission The Commission shall prevent any person from violating a rule of the Commission under [section 5711 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s5711) in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act ([15 U.S.C. 41](/us/usc/t15/s41) et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter. Any person who violates such rule shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, power, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act were incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 102–556, title II, § 203](/us/pl/102/556/tII/s203), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4191](/us/stat/106/4191).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311](/us/act/1914-09-26/ch311), [38 Stat. 717](/us/stat/38/717), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 58 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s58) and Tables.
