---
title: "§ 2233. Use of monies"
identifier: "USC-T2-S2233"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section2233"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–437, title III, § 303](/us/pl/110/437/tIII/s303), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4989](/us/stat/122/4989).)"
---
# § 2233. Use of monies

##### § 2233. Use of monies

(a) Gift Shop Account

(1) In general All monies in the Gift Shop Account shall be available without fiscal year limitation for disbursement by the Architect of the Capitol, upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, in connection with the operation of the gift shop under [section 2215 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s2215), including supplies, inventories, equipment, and other expenses. In addition, such monies may be used by the Architect of the Capitol, upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, to reimburse any applicable appropriations account for amounts used from such appropriations account to pay the salaries of employees of the gift shops.

(2) Use of remaining funds To the extent monies in the Gift Shop Account are available after disbursements and reimbursements are made under paragraph (1), the Architect of the Capitol, upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, may disburse such monies for the operation of the Capitol Visitor Center, after consultation with—

(A) the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives; and

(B) the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

(b) Miscellaneous Receipts Account All monies in the Miscellaneous Receipts Account shall be available without fiscal year limitation for disbursement by the Architect of the Capitol, upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, for the operations of the Capitol Visitor Center, after consultation with—

(1) the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives; and

(2) the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

*([Pub. L. 110–437, title III, § 303](/us/pl/110/437/tIII/s303), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4989](/us/stat/122/4989).)*
