---
title: "§ 3306. Services to United States citizens on Taiwan"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–8, § 7](/us/pl/96/8/s7), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 17](/us/stat/93/17).)"
---
# § 3306. Services to United States citizens on Taiwan

##### § 3306. Services to United States citizens on Taiwan

(a) Authorized services The Institute may authorize any of its employees on Taiwan—

(1) to administer to or take from any person an oath, affirmation, affidavit, or deposition, and to perform any notarial act which any notary public is required or authorized by law to perform within the United States;

(2) To 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. act as provisional conservator of the personal estates of deceased United States citizens; and

(3) to assist and protect the interests of United States persons by performing other acts such as are authorized to be performed outside the United States for consular purposes by such laws of the United States as the President may specify.

(b) Acts by authorized employees Acts performed by authorized employees of the Institute under this section shall be valid, and of like force and effect within the United States, as if performed by any other person authorized under the laws of the United States to perform such acts.

*([Pub. L. 96–8, § 7](/us/pl/96/8/s7), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 17](/us/stat/93/17).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as of January 1, 1979, see [section 18 of Pub. L. 96–8](/us/pl/96/8/s18), set out as a note under [section 3301 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3301).
