---
title: "§ 1516. Statistical information"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1516"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1516"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, § 4](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552/s4) (part), [32 Stat. 826](/us/stat/32/826).)"
---
# § 1516. Statistical information

##### § 1516. Statistical information

The Secretary of Commerce shall have control of the work of gathering and distributing statistical information naturally relating to the subjects confided to his department; and he shall have the power and authority to rearrange the statistical work of the bureaus and offices confided to the Department of Commerce, and to consolidate any of the statistical bureaus and offices above described. He shall also have authority to call upon other departments of the Government for statistical data and results obtained by them; and he may collate, arrange, and publish such statistical information so obtained in such manner as to him may seem wise.

*([Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, § 4](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552/s4) (part), [32 Stat. 826](/us/stat/32/826).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 601 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s601) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

Section is based on part of the first par. of section 4 of act Feb. 14, 1903. The rest of the first par. and the second par. of section 4 are classified to sections 1511 and 1515 of this title, respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

[Act Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch141), [37 Stat. 736](/us/stat/37/736), provided that the Department of Commerce and Labor and Secretary of Commerce and Labor were to be thereafter called the Department of Commerce and Secretary of Commerce and that the act creating the Department of Commerce and Labor (act Feb. 14, 1903) was amended accordingly.
