---
title: "§ 4623. Participation of national laboratories of Department of Energy"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4623"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4623"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–180, div. C, title I, § 3143](/us/pl/100/180/dC/tI/s3143), Dec. 4, 1987, [101 Stat. 1243](/us/stat/101/1243).)"
---
# § 4623. Participation of national laboratories of Department of Energy

##### § 4623. Participation of national laboratories of Department of Energy

(a) Mission of national laboratories Each national laboratory of the Department of Energy may participate in research and development projects under the Initiative in conjunction with the Department of Defense or with any consortium, college, or university carrying out any project for or in cooperation with any consortium referred to in [section 4622 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4622), to the extent that such participation is consistent with the missions of the national laboratory.

(b) Agreements The Secretary of Energy may enter into such agreements with the Secretary of Defense, with any consortium referred to in [section 4622 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4622), and with any college or university as may be necessary to provide for the active participation of the national laboratories of the Department of Energy in the Initiative.

(c) Research and development One or more national laboratories of the Department of Energy shall participate in the Initiative by conducting research and development activities relating to research on the development of semiconductor manufacturing technologies. Such activities may include research and development relating to materials fabrication, materials characterization, design and modeling of devices, and new processing equipment.

*([Pub. L. 100–180, div. C, title I, § 3143](/us/pl/100/180/dC/tI/s3143), Dec. 4, 1987, [101 Stat. 1243](/us/stat/101/1243).)*
