---
title: "§ 1503. Filing documents with Office; notation of time; public inspection; transmission for publishing"
identifier: "USC-T44-S1503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section1503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1274](/us/stat/82/1274); [Pub. L. 95–440, § 2](/us/pl/95/440/s2), Oct. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/92/1063); [Pub. L. 98–497, title I, § 107(b)(4)](/us/pl/98/497/tI/s107/b/4), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2287](/us/stat/98/2287); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/b), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537); [Pub. L. 118–267, § 2(c)](/us/pl/118/267/s2/c), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2983]("
---
# § 1503. Filing documents with Office; notation of time; public inspection; transmission for publishing

##### § 1503. Filing documents with Office; notation of time; public inspection; transmission for publishing

The original document required or authorized to be published by section 1505 shall be filed with the Office of the Federal Register for publication at times established by the Administrative Committee of the Federal Register by regulation. The Archivist of the United States shall cause to be noted on the original of each document the day and hour of filing. Upon filing, the document shall be immediately available for public inspection. The original shall be retained by the National Archives and Records Administration and shall be available for inspection under regulations prescribed by the Archivist, unless such original is disposed of in accordance with disposal schedules submitted by the Administrative Committee and authorized by the Archivist pursuant to regulations issued under chapter 33; however, originals of proclamations of the President and Executive orders shall be permanently retained by the Administration as part of the National Archives of the United States. The Office shall transmit to the Government Publishing Office, as provided by this chapter, each document required or authorized to be published by section 1505. Every Federal agency shall cause to be transmitted for filing the original of all such documents issued, prescribed, or promulgated by the agency.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1274](/us/stat/82/1274); [Pub. L. 95–440, § 2](/us/pl/95/440/s2), Oct. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/92/1063); [Pub. L. 98–497, title I, § 107(b)(4)](/us/pl/98/497/tI/s107/b/4), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2287](/us/stat/98/2287); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/b), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537); [Pub. L. 118–267, § 2(c)](/us/pl/118/267/s2/c), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2983](/us/stat/138/2983).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 302 ([July 26, 1935, ch. 417, § 2](/us/act/1935-07-26/ch417/s2), [49 Stat. 500](/us/stat/49/500); [June 30, 1949, ch. 288](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288), title I, § 104(a), [63 Stat. 381](/us/stat/63/381)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 118–267](/us/pl/118/267) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section provided for the filing of documents, notation of time, public inspection, and transmission for printing.

1984—[Pub. L. 98–497](/us/pl/98/497) substituted “Archivist of the United States” for “Administrator of General Services”, “National Archives and Records Administration” for “General Services Administration”, and “Archivist” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

1978—[Pub. L. 95–440](/us/pl/95/440) substituted provision for retention of original documents by the General Services Administration for prior provision for retention in the archives of the National Archives and inserted provisions dispensing with such retention when disposals are made in accordance with disposal schedules and requiring retention of original proclamations of the President and Executive orders as part of the National Archives.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–497](/us/pl/98/497) effective Apr. 1, 1985, see [section 301 of Pub. L. 98–497](/us/pl/98/497/s301), set out as a note under [section 2102 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2102).
