---
title: "§ 6617. Law enforcement authority of Sergeant-at-Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6617"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6617"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–145, § 8](/us/pl/111/145/s8), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 56](/us/stat/124/56).)"
---
# § 6617. Law enforcement authority of Sergeant-at-Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate

##### § 6617. Law enforcement authority of Sergeant-at-Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate

(a) In general The Sergeant-at-Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate shall have the same law enforcement authority, including the authority to carry firearms, as a member of the Capitol Police. The law enforcement authority under the preceding sentence shall be subject to the requirement that the Sergeant-at-Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate have the qualifications specified in subsection (b).

(b) Qualifications The qualifications referred to in subsection (a) are the following:

(1) A minimum of 5 years of experience as a law enforcement officer before beginning service as the Sergeant-at-Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.

(2) Current certification in the use of firearms by the appropriate Federal law enforcement entity or an equivalent non-Federal entity.

(3) Any other firearms qualification required for members of the Capitol Police.

(c) Regulations The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate shall have authority to prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 111–145, § 8](/us/pl/111/145/s8), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 56](/us/stat/124/56).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61f–14 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61f–14) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
