---
title: "§ 1753. Adoption of consumer broadband labels"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1753"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1753"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title V, § 60504](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tV/s60504), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1244](/us/stat/135/1244).)"
---
# § 1753. Adoption of consumer broadband labels

##### § 1753. Adoption of consumer broadband labels

(a) Final rule Not later than 1 year after November 15, 2021, the Commission shall promulgate regulations to require the display of broadband consumer labels, as described in the Public Notice of the Commission issued on April 4, 2016 (DA 16–357), to disclose to consumers information regarding broadband internet access service plans.

(b) Introductory rate information

(1) In general The broadband consumer label required under subsection (a) shall also include information regarding whether the offered price is an introductory rate and, if so, the price the consumer will be required to pay following the introductory period.

(2) Use in broadband data collection The Commission shall rely on the price information displayed on the broadband consumer label required under subsection (a) for any collection of data relating to the price and subscription rates of each covered broadband internet access service under section 60502(c).

(c) Hearings In issuing the final rule under subsection (a), the Commission shall conduct a series of public hearings to assess, at the time of the proceeding—

(1) how consumers evaluate broadband internet access service plans; and

(2) whether disclosures to consumers of information regarding broadband internet access service plans, including the disclosures required under section 8.1 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, are available, effective, and sufficient.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title V, § 60504](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tV/s60504), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1244](/us/stat/135/1244).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 60502(c), referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [section 60502(c) of Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58/s60502/c), which is set out as a note under [section 1752 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1752).
