---
title: "§ 10741. Grant program to evaluate and improve educational methods at prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10741"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10741"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3041](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3041), as added [Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 502(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s502/c/2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5228](/us/stat/132/5228).)"
---
# § 10741. Grant program to evaluate and improve educational methods at prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities

##### § 10741. Grant program to evaluate and improve educational methods at prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities

(a) Grant program authorized The Attorney General may carry out a grant program under which the Attorney General may make grants to States, units of local government, territories, Indian Tribes, and other public and private entities to—

(1) evaluate methods to improve academic and vocational education for offenders in prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities;

(2) identify, and make recommendations to the Attorney General regarding, best practices relating to academic and vocational education for offenders in prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities, based on the evaluation under paragraph (1);

(3) improve the academic and vocational education programs (including technology career training) available to offenders in prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities; and

(4) implement methods to improve academic and vocational education for offenders in prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities consistent with the best practices identified in subsection (c).

(b) Application To be eligible for a grant under this subchapter, a State or other entity described in subsection (a) shall submit to the Attorney General an application in such form and manner, at such time, and accompanied by such information as the Attorney General specifies.

(c) Best practices Not later than 180 days after December 21, 2018, the Attorney General shall identify and publish best practices relating to academic and vocational education for offenders in prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities. The best practices shall consider the evaluations performed and recommendations made under grants made under subsection (a) before December 21, 2018.

(d) Report Not later than 90 days after the last day of the final fiscal year of a grant under this subchapter, each entity described in subsection (a) receiving such a grant shall submit to the Attorney General a detailed report of the progress made by the entity using such grant, to permit the Attorney General to evaluate and improve academic and vocational education methods carried out with grants under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3041](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3041), as added [Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 502(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s502/c/2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5228](/us/stat/132/5228).)*
