---
title: "§ 14306. Establishment of promotion zones: Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve running mate system"
identifier: "USC-T10-S14306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section14306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2935](/us/stat/108/2935); amended [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 515(b)(3)(J)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s515/b/3/J), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3235](/us/stat/119/3235).)"
---
# § 14306. Establishment of promotion zones: Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve running mate system

##### § 14306. Establishment of promotion zones: Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve running mate system

(a) Authority of Secretary of the Navy.— The Secretary of the Navy may by regulation implement [section 14305 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14305) by requiring that the promotion zone for consideration of officers on the reserve active-status list of the Navy or the Marine Corps for promotion to the next higher grade be determined in accordance with a running mate system as provided in subsection (b).

(b) Assignment of Running Mates.— An officer to whom a running mate system applies shall be assigned as a running mate an officer of the same grade on the active-duty list of the same armed force. The officer on the reserve active-status list is in the promotion zone and is eligible for consideration for promotion to the next higher grade by a selection board convened under [section 14101(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14101/a) when that officer’s running mate is in or above the promotion zone established for that officer’s grade under chapter 36 of this title.

(c) Consideration of Officers Below the Zone Under a Running Mate System.— If the Secretary of the Navy authorizes the selection of officers for promotion from below the promotion zone in accordance with [section 14307 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14307), the number of officers to be considered from below the zone may be established through the application of the running mate system or otherwise as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to meet the needs of the Navy or Marine Corps.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2935](/us/stat/108/2935); amended [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 515(b)(3)(J)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s515/b/3/J), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3235](/us/stat/119/3235).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in subsec. (b) of this section were contained in [section 5899 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s5899), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–337, § 1629(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/337/s1629/b/2).

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163) substituted “Navy Reserve” for “Naval Reserve” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 1691(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691/b/1), set out as a note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).
