---
title: "§ 831h–3. Recreational access"
identifier: "USC-T16-S831h–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section831h–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([May 18, 1933, ch. 32, § 9b](/us/act/1933-05-18/ch32/s9b), as added [Pub. L. 114–322, title IV, § 5003](/us/pl/114/322/tIV/s5003), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1886](/us/stat/130/1886).)"
---
# § 831h–3. Recreational access

##### § 831h–3. Recreational access

(a) Definition of floating cabin In this section, the term “floating cabin” means a watercraft or other floating structure—

(1) primarily designed and used for human habitation or occupation; and

(2) not primarily designed or used for navigation or transportation on water.

(b) Recreational access The Board may allow the use of a floating cabin if—

(1) the floating cabin is maintained by the owner to reasonable health, safety, and environmental standards, as required by the Board;

(2) the Corporation has authorized the use of recreational vessels on the waters; and

(3) the floating cabin was located on waters under the jurisdiction of the Corporation as of December 16, 2016.

(c) Fees The Board may levy fees on the owner of a floating cabin on waters under the jurisdiction of the Corporation for the purpose of ensuring compliance with subsection (b) if the fees are necessary and reasonable for such purpose.

(d) Continued recreational use

(1) In general With respect to a floating cabin located on waters under the jurisdiction of the Corporation on December 16, 2016, the Board—

(A) may not require the removal of the floating cabin—

(i) in the case of a floating cabin that was granted a permit by the Corporation before December 16, 2016, for a period of 15 years beginning on such date; and

(ii) in the case of a floating cabin not granted a permit by the Corporation before December 16, 2016, for a period of 5 years beginning on such date; and

(B) shall approve and allow the use of the floating cabin on waters under the jurisdiction of the Corporation at such time and for such duration as—

(i) the floating cabin meets the requirements of subsection (b); and

(ii) the owner of the floating cabin has paid any fee assessed pursuant to subsection (c).

(2) Savings provisions

(A) Nothing in this subsection restricts the ability of the Corporation to enforce reasonable health, safety, or environmental standards.

(B) This section applies only to floating cabins located on waters under the jurisdiction of the Corporation.

(e) New construction The Corporation may establish regulations to prevent the construction of new floating cabins.

*([May 18, 1933, ch. 32, § 9b](/us/act/1933-05-18/ch32/s9b), as added [Pub. L. 114–322, title IV, § 5003](/us/pl/114/322/tIV/s5003), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1886](/us/stat/130/1886).)*
