---
title: "§ 2332. Priorities; uniformity; preferences; impairment of rights"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2332"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2332"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 4, § 42, [69 Stat. 475](/us/stat/69/475).)"
---
# § 2332. Priorities; uniformity; preferences; impairment of rights

##### § 2332. Priorities; uniformity; preferences; impairment of rights

(a) be uniform in each class or subclass of property;

(b) give such preference to occupants and project-connected persons and to incoming employees of the Commission, of a contractor, or of a licensee as the Commission finds necessary or desirable, giving due consideration to the following factors:

(1) The retention and recruitment of personnel essential to the atomic energy program;

(2) The minimization of dislocations within the community;

(3) The expeditious accomplishment of the disposal program; and

(4) The desirability of encouraging private firms to locate or remain in the community;

(c) give the occupant of a Government-owned single family house, and the senior occupant of a duplex house, at least ninety days in which to exercise the first right of priority;

(d) permit persons who have formerly been occupants, project-connected persons, or inhabitants of the community, upon application therefor, to have such priority as the Commission finds to be fair and equitable; and

(e) not impair any rights, including purchase rights, conferred by existing leases and covenants.

*([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 4, § 42, [69 Stat. 475](/us/stat/69/475).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.
