---
title: "§ 3224a. Job training grants"
identifier: "USC-T29-S3224a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section3224a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title IV, § 414(c)](/us/pl/105/277/dC/tIV/s414/c), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–653](/us/stat/112/2681-653); [Pub. L. 106–313, title I, § 111](/us/pl/106/313/tI/s111), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1257](/us/stat/114/1257); [Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title IV, § 428](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tIV/s428), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3358](/us/stat/118/3358); [Pub. L. 113–128, title V, § 512(a)](/us/pl/113/128/tV/s512/a), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/128/1705).)"
---
# § 3224a. Job training grants

##### § 3224a. Job training grants

(1) In general The Secretary of Labor shall use funds available under [section 1356(s)(2) of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1356/s/2) to award grants to eligible entities to provide job training and related activities for workers to assist them in obtaining or upgrading employment in industries and economic sectors identified pursuant to paragraph (4) that are projected to experience significant growth and ensure that job training and related activities funded by such grants are coordinated with the public workforce investment system.

(2) Use of funds

(A) Training provided Funds under this section may be used to provide job training services and related activities that are designed to assist workers (including unemployed and employed workers) in gaining the skills and competencies needed to obtain or upgrade career ladder employment positions in the industries and economic sectors identified pursuant to paragraph (4).

(B) Enhanced training programs and information In order to facilitate the provision of job training services described in subparagraph (A), funds under this section may be used to assist in the development and implementation of model activities such as developing appropriate curricula to build core competencies and train workers, identifying and disseminating career and skill information, and increasing the integration of community and technical college activities with activities of businesses and the public workforce investment system to meet the training needs for the industries and economic sectors identified pursuant to paragraph (4).

(3) Eligible entities Grants under this section may be awarded to partnerships of private and public sector entities, which may include—

(A) businesses or business-related nonprofit organizations, such as trade associations;

(B) education and training providers, including community colleges and other community-based organizations; and

(C) entities involved in administering the workforce development system, as defined in [section 3102 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3102), and economic development agencies.

(4) High growth industries and economic sectors For purposes of this section, the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with State workforce investment boards, shall identify industries and economic sectors that are projected to experience significant growth, taking into account appropriate factors, such as the industries and sectors that—

(A) are projected to add substantial numbers of new jobs to the economy;

(B) are being transformed by technology and innovation requiring new skill sets for workers;

(C) are new and emerging businesses that are projected to grow; or

(D) have a significant impact on the economy overall or on the growth of other industries and economic sectors.

(5) Equitable distribution In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall ensure an equitable distribution of such grants across geographically diverse areas.

(6) Leveraging of resources and authority to require match

(A) Leveraging of resources In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall take into account, in addition to other factors the Secretary determines are appropriate—

(i) the extent to which resources other than the funds provided under this section will be made available by the eligible entities applying for grants to support the activities carried out under this section; and

(ii) the ability of such entities to continue to carry out and expand such activities after the expiration of the grants.

(B) Authority to require match The Secretary of Labor may require the provision of specified levels of a matching share of cash or noncash resources from resources other than the funds provided under this section for projects funded under this section.

(7) Performance accountability The Secretary of Labor shall require grantees to report on the employment outcomes obtained by workers receiving training under this section using indicators of performance that are consistent with other indicators used for employment and training programs administered by the Secretary, such as entry into employment, retention in employment, and increases in earnings. The Secretary of Labor may also require grantees to participate in evaluations of projects carried out under this section.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title IV, § 414(c)](/us/pl/105/277/dC/tIV/s414/c), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–653](/us/stat/112/2681-653); [Pub. L. 106–313, title I, § 111](/us/pl/106/313/tI/s111), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1257](/us/stat/114/1257); [Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title IV, § 428](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tIV/s428), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3358](/us/stat/118/3358); [Pub. L. 113–128, title V, § 512(a)](/us/pl/113/128/tV/s512/a), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/128/1705).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 2916a of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2916a) and set out as a note under [section 2916 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2916).

Section was enacted as part of the American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, and not as part of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act which comprises this subchapter.

#### Amendments

2014—Par. (3)(C). [Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128) substituted “entities involved in administering the workforce development system, as defined in [section 3102 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3102)” for “entities involved in administering the workforce investment system established under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998”.

2004—[Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447) amended section catchline and text generally, substituting provisions relating to job training grants for provisions relating to demonstration programs and projects to provide technical skills training for workers.

2000—[Pub. L. 106–313](/us/pl/106/313) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(1) In general.—In establishing demonstration programs under [section 1732(c) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1732/c), as in effect on October 21, 1998, or demonstration programs or projects under [section 2916(b) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2916/b), the Secretary of Labor shall use funds available under [section 1356(s)(2) of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1356/s/2) to establish demonstration programs or projects to provide technical skills training for workers, including both employed and unemployed workers.

“(2) Grants.—The Secretary of Labor shall award grants to carry out the programs and projects described in paragraph (1) to—

“(A)(i) private industry councils established under [section 1512 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1512), as in effect on October 21, 1998; or

“(ii) local boards that will carry out such programs or projects through one-stop delivery systems established under [section 2841 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2841); or

“(B) regional consortia of councils or local boards described in subparagraph (A).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2014 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128) effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 (July 1, 2015), see [section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128/s506), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3101).

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447) effective 90 days after Dec. 8, 2004, see [section 430(a) of Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447/s430/a), set out as a note under [section 1182 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1182), Aliens and Nationality.
