---
title: "§ 557. Employees of Forest Service; subsistence furnished to; personal equipment; supplies, and medical attention"
identifier: "USC-T16-S557"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section557"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 457](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch457), §§ 4, 6, [43 Stat. 1133](/us/stat/43/1133); [Apr. 24, 1950, ch. 97, § 15](/us/act/1950-04-24/ch97/s15), [64 Stat. 86](/us/stat/64/86).)"
---
# § 557. Employees of Forest Service; subsistence furnished to; personal equipment; supplies, and medical attention

##### § 557. Employees of Forest Service; subsistence furnished to; personal equipment; supplies, and medical attention

The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to furnish subsistence to employees of the Forest Service, to purchase personal equipment and supplies for them, and to make deductions therefor from moneys appropriated for salary payments or otherwise due such employees. He is also authorized, in his discretion, to provide out of moneys appropriated for the general expenses of the Forest Service medical attention for employees of the Forest Service located at isolated situations, including the moving of such employees to hospitals or other places where medical assistance is available, and in case of death to remove the bodies of deceased employees to the nearest place where they can be prepared for shipment or for burial: *Provided*, That when a transient without permanent residence, or any other person while away from his place of residence, is temporarily employed by the Forest Service and while so employed becomes disabled because of injury or illness not attributable to official work, he may be provided hospitalization and other necessary medical care, subsistence, and lodging for a period of not to exceed fifteen days during such disability, the cost thereof to be payable from any funds available to the Forest Service applicable to the work for which such person is employed.

*([Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 457](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch457), §§ 4, 6, [43 Stat. 1133](/us/stat/43/1133); [Apr. 24, 1950, ch. 97, § 15](/us/act/1950-04-24/ch97/s15), [64 Stat. 86](/us/stat/64/86).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1950—Act Apr. 24, 1950, inserted proviso to provide medical care for temporary employees.
