---
title: "§ 2739. Civil service rotational program"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2739"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2739"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXII, § 6208](/us/pl/118/31/dF/tLXII/s6208), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 975](/us/stat/137/975).)"
---
# § 2739. Civil service rotational program

##### § 2739. Civil service rotational program

(a) Establishment of pilot rotational program for civil service Not later than 180 days after December 22, 2023, the Secretary shall establish a program to provide qualified civil servants serving at the Department an opportunity to serve at a United States embassy, including identifying criteria and an application process for such program.

(b) Program The program established under this section shall—

(1) provide at least 20 career civil servants the opportunity to serve for 2 to 3 years at a United States embassy to gain additional skills and experience;

(2) offer such civil servants the opportunity to serve in a political or economic section at a United States embassy; and

(3) include clear and transparent criteria for eligibility and selection, which shall include a minimum of 5 years of service at the Department.

(c) Subsequent position and promotion Following a rotation at a United States embassy pursuant to the program established by this section, participants in the program must be afforded, at minimum, a position equivalent in seniority, compensation, and responsibility to the position occupied prior serving in the program. Successful completion of a rotation at a United States embassy shall be considered favorably with regard to applications for promotion in civil service jobs at the Department.

(d) Implementation Not later than 2 years after December 22, 2023, the Secretary shall identify not less than 20 positions in United States embassies for the program established under this section and offer at least 20 civil servants the opportunity to serve in a rotation at a United States embassy pursuant to this section.

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXII, § 6208](/us/pl/118/31/dF/tLXII/s6208), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 975](/us/stat/137/975).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary” and “Department” as used in this section, see [section 6002 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s6002), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
