---
title: "§ 4005. Definitions applicable to Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4005"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4005"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–89, § 2](/us/pl/113/89/s2), Mar. 21, 2014, [128 Stat. 1020](/us/stat/128/1020).)"
---
# § 4005. Definitions applicable to Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014

##### § 4005. Definitions applicable to Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014

(1) Administrator The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

(2) National Flood Insurance Program The term “National Flood Insurance Program” means the program established under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 4001](/us/usc/t42/s4001) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 113–89, § 2](/us/pl/113/89/s2), Mar. 21, 2014, [128 Stat. 1020](/us/stat/128/1020).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in text, probably should read “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 113–89](/us/pl/113/89), Mar. 21, 2014, [128 Stat. 1020](/us/stat/128/1020), known as the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014, which does not contain titles. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2014 Amendment note set out under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4001) and Tables.

The National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, referred to in par. (2), is title XIII of [Pub. L. 90–448](/us/pl/90/448), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 572](/us/stat/82/572), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4001) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014, and not as part of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.
