---
title: "§ 903. Acquisition and use"
identifier: "USC-T40-S903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1128](/us/stat/116/1128).)"
---
# § 903. Acquisition and use

##### § 903. Acquisition and use

(a) Notice to Local Government.— To the extent practicable, before making a commitment to acquire real property situated in an urban area, the Administrator of General Services shall give notice of the intended acquisition and the proposed use of the property to the unit of general local government exercising zoning and land use jurisdiction. If the Administrator determines that providing advance notice would adversely impact the acquisition, the Administrator shall give notice of the acquisition and the proposed use of the property immediately after the property is acquired.

(b) Objections to Acquisition or Change of Use.— In the acquisition or change of use of real property situated in an urban area as a site for public building, if the unit of general local government exercising zoning and land use jurisdiction objects on grounds that the proposed acquisition or change of use conflicts with zoning regulations or planning objectives, the Administrator shall, to the extent the Administrator determines is practicable, consider all the objections and comply with the zoning regulations and planning objectives.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1128](/us/stat/116/1128).)*

In subsection (b), the words “and conform to” are omitted as included in “comply with”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 903 | 40:533. | June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title VIII, § 804, as added Pub. L. 90–577, title V, § 501, Oct. 16, 1968, 82 Stat. 1105. |
