---
title: "§ 40101. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T46-S40101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section40101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 7](/us/pl/109/304/s7), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1523](/us/stat/120/1523); [Pub. L. 117–146, § 2](/us/pl/117/146/s2), June 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/136/1272).)"
---
# § 40101. Purposes

##### § 40101. Purposes

(1) establish a nondiscriminatory regulatory process for the common carriage of goods by water in the foreign commerce of the United States with a minimum of government intervention and regulatory costs;

(2) ensure an efficient, competitive, and economical transportation system in the ocean commerce of the United States;

(3) encourage the development of an economically sound and efficient liner fleet of vessels of the United States capable of meeting national security needs and supporting commerce; and

(4) promote the growth and development of United States exports through a competitive and efficient system for the carriage of goods by water in the foreign commerce of the United States, and by placing a greater reliance on the marketplace.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 7](/us/pl/109/304/s7), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1523](/us/stat/120/1523); [Pub. L. 117–146, § 2](/us/pl/117/146/s2), June 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 1272](/us/stat/136/1272).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40101 | 46 App.:1701. | Pub. L. 98–237, § 2, Mar. 20, 1984, 98 Stat. 67; Pub. L. 105–258, title I, § 101, Oct. 14, 1998, 112 Stat. 1902. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 117–146, § 2(1)](/us/pl/117/146/s2/1), added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “provide an efficient and economic transportation system in the ocean commerce of the United States that is, insofar as possible, in harmony with, and responsive to, international shipping practices;”.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 117–146, § 2(2)](/us/pl/117/146/s2/2), inserted “and supporting commerce” after “needs”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 117–146, § 2(3)](/us/pl/117/146/s2/3), added par. (4) and struck out former par. (4) which read as follows: “promote the growth and development of United States exports through competitive and efficient ocean transportation and by placing a greater reliance on the marketplace.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effects on Certain Agreements and Contracts

[Pub. L. 98–237, § 20(d)](/us/pl/98/237/s20/d), Mar. 20, 1984, [98 Stat. 90](/us/stat/98/90); [Pub. L. 105–258, title I, § 117(1)](/us/pl/105/258/tI/s117/1), Oct. 14, 1998, [112 Stat. 1914](/us/stat/112/1914), provided that: “All agreements, contracts, modifications, licenses, and exemptions previously issued, approved, or effective under the Shipping Act, 1916 [former 46 U.S.C. App. 801 et seq., see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s101)], or the Shipping Act of 1984 [former 46 U.S.C. App. 1701 et seq., see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s101)], shall continue in force and effect as if issued or effective under this Act, as amended by the Ocean Shipping Reform Act of 1998 [[Pub. L. 105–258](/us/pl/105/258), Oct. 14, 1998, [112 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/112/1902)], and all new agreements, contracts, and modifications to existing, pending, or new contracts or agreements shall be considered under this Act, as amended by the Ocean Shipping Reform Act of 1998.”
