---
title: "§ 20126. Consultation"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20126"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20126"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–162, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/109/162/tIX/s903), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3078](/us/stat/119/3078); [Pub. L. 113–4, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/113/4/tIX/s903), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 120](/us/stat/127/120); [Pub. L. 116–165, § 4(b)(3)](/us/pl/116/165/s4/b/3), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 761](/us/stat/134/761).)"
---
# § 20126. Consultation

##### § 20126. Consultation

(a) In general The Attorney General shall conduct annual consultations with Indian tribal governments concerning the Federal administration of tribal funds and programs established under this Act, the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (title IV of [Public Law 103–322](/us/pl/103/322); [108 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/108/1902)), the Violence Against Women Act of 2000 (division B of [Public Law 106–386](/us/pl/106/386); [114 Stat. 1491](/us/stat/114/1491)), and the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013.

(b) Recommendations During consultations under subsection (a), the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Attorney General shall solicit recommendations from Indian tribes concerning—

(1) administering tribal funds and programs;

(2) enhancing the safety of Indian women from domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, homicide, stalking, and sex trafficking;

(3) strengthening the Federal response to such violent crimes; and

(4) improving access to local, regional, State, and Federal crime information databases and criminal justice information systems.

(c) Annual report The Attorney General shall submit to Congress an annual report on the annual consultations required under subsection (a) that—

(1) contains the recommendations made under subsection (b) by Indian tribes during the year covered by the report;

(2) describes actions taken during the year covered by the report to respond to recommendations made under subsection (b) during the year or a previous year; and

(3) describes how the Attorney General will work in coordination and collaboration with Indian tribes, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of the Interior to address the recommendations made under subsection (b).

(d) Notice Not later than 120 days before the date of a consultation under subsection (a), the Attorney General shall notify tribal leaders of the date, time, and location of the consultation.

*([Pub. L. 109–162, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/109/162/tIX/s903), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3078](/us/stat/119/3078); [Pub. L. 113–4, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/113/4/tIX/s903), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 120](/us/stat/127/120); [Pub. L. 116–165, § 4(b)(3)](/us/pl/116/165/s4/b/3), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 761](/us/stat/134/761).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 2960](/us/stat/119/2960), known as the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

The Violence Against Women Act of 1994, referred to in subsec. (a), is title IV of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1902](/us/stat/108/1902). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

The Violence Against Women Act of 2000, referred to in subsec. (a), is div. B of [Pub. L. 106–386](/us/pl/106/386), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1491](/us/stat/114/1491). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2000 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

The Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 54](/us/stat/127/54). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2013 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14045d of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14045d), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 116–165, § 4(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/116/165/s4/b/3/A), added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “enhancing the safety of Indian women from domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, and sex trafficking; and”.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 116–165, § 4(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/116/165/s4/b/3/B), (C), added par. (4).

2013—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 903(1)](/us/pl/113/4/s903/1), substituted “, the Violence Against Women Act of 2000” for “and the Violence Against Women Act of 2000” and inserted “, and the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013” before period at end.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 903(2)(A)](/us/pl/113/4/s903/2/A), substituted “Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of the Interior,” for “Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 903(2)(B)](/us/pl/113/4/s903/2/B), substituted “stalking, and sex trafficking” for “and stalking”.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 113–4, § 903(3)](/us/pl/113/4/s903/3), added subsecs. (c) and (d).
