---
title: "§ 2306. Vessel reporting requirements"
identifier: "USC-T46-S2306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section2306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 98–498, title II, § 212(a)(3)](/us/pl/98/498/tII/s212/a/3), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/98/2305); amended [Pub. L. 109–304, § 15(9)](/us/pl/109/304/s15/9), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1703](/us/stat/120/1703); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8505(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4751](/us/stat/134/4751).)"
---
# § 2306. Vessel reporting requirements

##### § 2306. Vessel reporting requirements

(a)

(1) An owner, charterer, managing operator, or agent of a vessel of the United States, having reason to believe (because of lack of communication with or nonappearance of a vessel or any other incident) that the vessel may have been lost or imperiled, immediately shall—

(A) notify the Coast Guard; and

(B) use all available means to determine the status of the vessel.

(2) When more than 48 hours have passed since the owner, charterer, managing operator, or agent of a vessel required to report to the United States Flag Merchant Vessel Location Filing System under authority of [section 50113 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s50113) has received a communication from the vessel, the owner, charterer, managing operator, or agent immediately shall—

(A) notify the Coast Guard; and

(B) use all available means to determine the status of the vessel.

(3) An owner, charterer, managing operator, or agent of a vessel of the United States notifying the Coast Guard under paragraph (1) or (2) shall—

(A) provide the name and identification number of the vessel, the names of individuals on board, and other information that may be requested by the Coast Guard; and

(B) submit written confirmation to the Coast Guard within 24 hours after nonwritten notification to the Coast Guard under such paragraphs.

(4) An owner, charterer, managing operator, or agent violating this subsection is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each day during which the violation occurs.

(b)

(1) The master of a vessel of the United States required to report to the System shall report to the owner, charterer, managing operator, or agent at least once every 48 hours.

(2) A master violating this subsection is liable to the Government for a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each day during which the violation occurs.

(c) The Secretary may prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 98–498, title II, § 212(a)(3)](/us/pl/98/498/tII/s212/a/3), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/98/2305); amended [Pub. L. 109–304, § 15(9)](/us/pl/109/304/s15/9), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1703](/us/stat/120/1703); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8505(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4751](/us/stat/134/4751).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (3) read as follows: “A person notifying the Coast Guard under paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection shall provide the name and identification number of the vessel, the names of individuals on board, and other information that may be requested by the Coast Guard. The owner, charterer, managing operator, or agent also shall submit written confirmation to the Coast Guard within 24 hours after nonwritten notification to the Coast Guard under those paragraphs.”

2006—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 109–304](/us/pl/109/304) substituted “[section 50113 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s50113)” for “section 212(A) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 App. U.S.C. 1122a),”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 98–498, title II, § 214](/us/pl/98/498/tII/s214), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2306](/us/stat/98/2306), provided that: “Sections 211(a) and 212 of this subtitle [enacting this section and amending sections 2302, 3309, 6101, and 6103 of this title] are effective one hundred and eighty days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 19, 1984].”

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
