---
title: "§ 2351. National coordinator on nonproliferation"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2351"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2351"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1441](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1441), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2727](/us/stat/110/2727); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1069(c)(2)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tX/s1069/c/2), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2136](/us/stat/112/2136).)"
---
# § 2351. National coordinator on nonproliferation

##### § 2351. National coordinator on nonproliferation

(a) Designation of position The President shall designate an individual to serve in the Executive Office of the President as the National Coordinator for Nonproliferation Matters.

(b) Duties The Coordinator, under the direction of the National Security Council, shall advise and assist the President by—

(1) advising the President on nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including issues related to terrorism, arms control, and international organized crime;

(2) chairing the Committee on Nonproliferation of the National Security Council; and

(3) taking such actions as are necessary to ensure that there is appropriate emphasis in, cooperation on, and coordination of, nonproliferation research efforts of the United States, including activities of Federal agencies as well as activities of contractors funded by the Federal Government.

(c) Allocation of funds Of the total amount authorized to be appropriated under section 301,11 See References in Text note below. $2,000,000 is available to the Department of Defense for carrying out research referred to in subsection (b)(3).

*([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1441](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1441), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2727](/us/stat/110/2727); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1069(c)(2)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tX/s1069/c/2), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2136](/us/stat/112/2136).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 301, referred to in subsec. (c), is [section 301 of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s301), div. A, title III, Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2475](/us/stat/110/2475), which is not classified to the Code.

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 105–261](/us/pl/105/261) substituted “of the National Security Council” for “established under section 1342”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Commission To Assess Organization of Federal Government To Combat Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction

[Pub. L. 104–293, title VII](/us/pl/104/293/tVII), subtitle A, Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3470](/us/stat/110/3470), as amended by [Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(f) [title VII, § 708]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/f/tVII/s708), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–337](/us/stat/112/2681-337), 2681–390, established the Commission to Assess the Organization of the Federal Government to Combat the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, directed the Commission to carry out a thorough study of the organization of the Federal Government, including the elements of the intelligence community, with respect to combatting the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and, not later than 18 months after Jan. 18, 1998, to submit to Congress a report containing a detailed statement of its findings and conclusions, and provided that the Commission terminate 60 days after the date on which it submitted such report.
