---
title: "§ 1108. Presidential approval required for printing of periodicals; number printed; sale to public"
identifier: "USC-T44-S1108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section1108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/82/1262); [Pub. L. 98–216, § 3(d)(2)](/us/pl/98/216/s3/d/2), (3), Feb. 14, 1984, [98 Stat. 6](/us/stat/98/6); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)"
---
# § 1108. Presidential approval required for printing of periodicals; number printed; sale to public

##### § 1108. Presidential approval required for printing of periodicals; number printed; sale to public

The head of an executive department, independent agency or establishment of the Government, with the approval of the President, may use from the appropriations available for printing and binding such sums as are necessary for the printing of journals, magazines, periodicals, and similar publications he certifies in writing to be necessary in the transaction of the public business required by law of the department, office, or establishment. There may be printed, in addition to those necessary for the public business, not to exceed two thousand copies for free distribution by the issuing department, office, or establishment. The Director of the Government Publishing Office, subject to regulation by the Joint Committee on Printing, shall print additional copies required for sale to the public by the Superintendent of Documents; but the printing of these additional copies may not interfere with the prompt execution of printing for the Government.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/82/1262); [Pub. L. 98–216, § 3(d)(2)](/us/pl/98/216/s3/d/2), (3), Feb. 14, 1984, [98 Stat. 6](/us/stat/98/6); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 220 ([May 11, 1922, ch. 189, § 1](/us/act/1922-05-11/ch189/s1), [42 Stat. 541](/us/stat/42/541); [June 30, 1932, ch. 314, § 307](/us/act/1932-06-30/ch314/s307), [47 Stat. 409](/us/stat/47/409)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235) substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer”.

1984—[Pub. L. 98–216](/us/pl/98/216) substituted “Presidential” for “Bureau of Budget” in section catchline and substituted “President” for “Director of the Bureau of the Budget” in text.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Authority of President under this section to approve use, from appropriations available for printing and binding, of such sums as are necessary for printing of journals, magazines, periodicals, and similar publications delegated to Director of Office of Management and Budget, see section 9(7) of Ex. Ord. No. 11609, July 22, 1971, 36 F.R. 13747, set out as a note under [section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), The President.
