---
title: "§ 3341. Privacy"
identifier: "USC-T29-S3341"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section3341"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–128, title V, § 501](/us/pl/113/128/tV/s501), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1700](/us/stat/128/1700).)"
---
# § 3341. Privacy

##### § 3341. Privacy

(a) [Section 1232g of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1232g) Nothing in this Act (including the amendments made by this Act) shall be construed to supersede the privacy protections afforded parents and students under [section 1232g of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1232g).

(b) Prohibition on development of national database

(1) In general Nothing in this Act (including the amendments made by this Act) shall be construed to permit the development of a national database of personally identifiable information on individuals receiving services under subchapter I or under the amendments made by title IV.

(2) Limitation Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to prevent the proper administration of national programs under parts C and D of subchapter I, or the amendments made by title IV (as the case may be), or to carry out program management activities consistent with subchapter I or the amendments made by title IV (as the case may be).

*([Pub. L. 113–128, title V, § 501](/us/pl/113/128/tV/s501), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1700](/us/stat/128/1700).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), is [Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1425](/us/stat/128/1425), known as the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, which enacted this chapter, repealed chapter 30 (§ 2801 et seq.) of this title and chapter 73 (§ 9201 et seq.) of Title 20, Education, and made amendments to numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3101) and Tables.

The amendments made by title IV, referred to in subsec. (b), mean the amendments made by title IV of [Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128), which primarily amended the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, [Pub. L. 93–112](/us/pl/93/112), which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§ 701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of title IV of [Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128) to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 (July 1, 2015), see [section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128/s506), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3101).
