---
title: "§ 2292. Surveying and mapping"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2292"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2292"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 918](/us/pl/99/662/tIX/s918), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4192](/us/stat/100/4192).)"
---
# § 2292. Surveying and mapping

##### § 2292. Surveying and mapping

Any surveying or mapping services to be performed in connection with a water resources project which is or has been authorized to be undertaken by the Secretary shall be procured in accordance with title IX of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949.11 See References in Text note below.

*([Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 918](/us/pl/99/662/tIX/s918), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4192](/us/stat/100/4192).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, referred to in text, is [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288), [63 Stat. 377](/us/stat/63/377). Title IX of the Act, which was classified generally to subchapter VI (§ 541 et seq.) of chapter 10 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, was repealed and reenacted by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304, as chapter 11 (§ 1101 et seq.) of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works. For disposition of sections of former Title 40 to revised Title 40, see Table preceding [section 101 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s101). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Geomatic Data

[Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1118](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1118), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3776](/us/stat/132/3776), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Secretary [of the Army] shall develop guidance for the acceptance and use of information obtained from a non-Federal interest through geomatic techniques, including remote sensing and land surveying, cartography, geographic information systems, global navigation satellite systems, photogrammetry, or other remote means, in carrying out any authority of the Secretary. “(b) Considerations.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall ensure that use of information described in subsection (a) meets the data quality and operational requirements of the Secretary. “(c) Savings Clause.—Nothing in this section—“(1) requires the Secretary to accept information that the Secretary determines does not meet the guidance developed under this section; or “(2) changes the current statutory or regulatory requirements of the Corps of Engineers.”
