---
title: "§ 1665e. Licensing requirement for mental health care workers"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1665e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1665e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 706](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s706), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1665e. Licensing requirement for mental health care workers

##### § 1665e. Licensing requirement for mental health care workers

(a) In general Subject to [section 1621t of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1621t), and except as provided in subsection (b), any individual employed as a psychologist, social worker, or marriage and family therapist for the purpose of providing mental health care services to Indians in a clinical setting under this chapter is required to be licensed as a psychologist, social worker, or marriage and family therapist, respectively.

(b) Trainees An individual may be employed as a trainee in psychology, social work, or marriage and family therapy to provide mental health care services described in subsection (a) if such individual—

(1) works under the direct supervision of a licensed psychologist, social worker, or marriage and family therapist, respectively;

(2) is enrolled in or has completed at least 2 years of course work at a post-secondary, accredited education program for psychology, social work, marriage and family therapy, or counseling; and

(3) meets such other training, supervision, and quality review requirements as the Secretary may establish.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 706](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s706), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400), known as the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Section 706 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s706) is based on section 181 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1665e, [Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 706](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s706), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 702(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s702/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4576](/us/stat/106/4576); amended [Pub. L. 104–313, § 2(e)](/us/pl/104/313/s2/e), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3822](/us/stat/110/3822), provided for establishment of an alcohol and substance abuse residential treatment center in Gallup, New Mexico, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148).
