---
title: "§ 1862h. Congressional statement of findings and declaration of purposes respecting scientific and technical education and training"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1862h"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1862h"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–476, § 2](/us/pl/102/476/s2), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2297](/us/stat/106/2297); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10312(f)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10312/f/1), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1519](/us/stat/136/1519).)"
---
# § 1862h. Congressional statement of findings and declaration of purposes respecting scientific and technical education and training

##### § 1862h. Congressional statement of findings and declaration of purposes respecting scientific and technical education and training

(a) Findings The Congress finds that—

(1) the position of the United States in the world economy faces great challenges from highly trained foreign competition;

(2) the workforce of the United States must be better prepared for the technologically advanced, competitive, global economy;

(3) the improvement of our work force’s productivity and our international economic position depend upon the strengthening of our educational efforts in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics or STEM, especially at the associate-degree level;

(4) shortages of scientifically and technically educated 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “and”. trained workers in a wide variety of fields will best be addressed by collaboration among the Nation’s associate-degree-granting colleges and private industry to produce skilled, advanced technicians; and

(5) the National Science Foundation’s traditional role in developing model curricula, disseminating instructional materials, enhancing faculty development, and stimulating partnerships between educational institutions and industry, makes an enlarged role for the Foundation in STEM education and training particularly appropriate.

(b) Purposes It is the purpose of sections 1862h to 1862j of this title to—

(1) improve science and technical education at associate-degree-granting colleges;

(2) improve secondary school and postsecondary curricula in STEM fields;

(3) improve the educational opportunities of postsecondary students by creating comprehensive articulation agreements and planning between 2-year and 4-year institutions; and

(4) promote outreach to secondary schools to improve STEM instruction.

*([Pub. L. 102–476, § 2](/us/pl/102/476/s2), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2297](/us/stat/106/2297); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10312(f)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10312/f/1), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1519](/us/stat/136/1519).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 1862h to 1862j of this title, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 102–476](/us/pl/102/476), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2297](/us/stat/106/2297), known as the Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act of 1992, which enacted this section and sections 1862i and 1862j of this title and amended [section 1862 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1862). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1992 Amendment note set out under [section 1861 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1861) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act of 1992, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10312(f)(1)(A)(i)](/us/pl/117/167/s10312/f/1/A/i), substituted “science, technology, engineering, and mathematics or STEM” for “science, mathematics, and technology”.

Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10312(f)(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/117/167/s10312/f/1/A/ii), inserted “educated” before “trained”.

Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10312(f)(1)(A)(iii)](/us/pl/117/167/s10312/f/1/A/iii), substituted “STEM education and training” for “scientific and technical education and training”.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10312(f)(1)(B)(i)](/us/pl/117/167/s10312/f/1/B/i), substituted “STEM fields” for “mathematics and science”.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 117–167, § 10312(f)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/117/167/s10312/f/1/B/ii), substituted “STEM instruction” for “mathematics and science instruction”.
