---
title: "§ 1665d. Mental health technician program"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1665d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1665d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 705](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s705), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1665d. Mental health technician program

##### § 1665d. Mental health technician program

(a) In general Pursuant to [section 13 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s13), the Secretary shall establish and maintain a mental health technician program within the Service which—

(1) provides for the training of Indians as mental health technicians; and

(2) employs such technicians in the provision of community-based mental health care that includes identification, prevention, education, referral, and treatment services.

(b) Paraprofessional training In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall provide high-standard paraprofessional training in mental health care necessary to provide quality care to the Indian communities to be served. Such training shall be based upon a curriculum developed or approved by the Secretary which combines education in the theory of mental health care with supervised practical experience in the provision of such care.

(c) Supervision and evaluation of technicians The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall supervise and evaluate the mental health technicians in the training program.

(d) Traditional health care practices The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall ensure that the program established pursuant to this section involves the use and promotion of the traditional health care practices of the Indian tribes to be served.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 705](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s705), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 705 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s705) is based on section 181 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1665d, [Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 705](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s705), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 702(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s702/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4576](/us/stat/106/4576), provided for program of training and community education about alcohol and substance abuse, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148).
