---
title: "§ 3478. Facilities at remote locations"
identifier: "USC-T20-S3478"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section3478"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–88, title IV, § 418](/us/pl/96/88/tIV/s418), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 686](/us/stat/93/686).)"
---
# § 3478. Facilities at remote locations

##### § 3478. Facilities at remote locations

(a) Authorized services, supplies and facilities The Secretary is authorized to provide, construct, or maintain for employees and their dependents stationed at remote locations as necessary and when not otherwise available at such remote locations—

(1) emergency medical services and supplies;

(2) food and other subsistence supplies;

(3) dining facilities;

(4) audiovisual equipment, accessories, and supplies for recreation and training;

(5) reimbursement for food, clothing, medicine, and other supplies furnished by such employees in emergencies for the temporary relief of distressed persons;

(6) living and working quarters and facilities; and

(7) transportation for dependents of employees of the Department to the nearest appropriate educational facilities.

(b) Reimbursements The furnishing of medical treatment under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and the furnishing of services and supplies under paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (a) shall be at prices reflecting reasonable value as determined by the Secretary.

(c) Appropriation credits and refunds Proceeds from reimbursements under this section may be credited to the appropriation of funds that bear or will bear all or part of the cost of such work or services or used to refund excess sums when necessary.

*([Pub. L. 96–88, title IV, § 418](/us/pl/96/88/tIV/s418), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 686](/us/stat/93/686).)*
