---
title: "§ 395. Exclusive jurisdiction in United States; exceptions; laws applicable; fugitives from justice"
identifier: "USC-T16-S395"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section395"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Apr. 19, 1930, ch. 200, § 1](/us/act/1930-04-19/ch200/s1), [46 Stat. 227](/us/stat/46/227).)"
---
# § 395. Exclusive jurisdiction in United States; exceptions; laws applicable; fugitives from justice

##### § 395. Exclusive jurisdiction in United States; exceptions; laws applicable; fugitives from justice

Sole and exclusive jurisdiction shall be exercised by the United States over the territory which is now or may hereafter be included in the Hawaii National Park in the Territory of Hawaii, saving, however, to the Territory of Hawaii the right to serve civil or criminal process within the limits of the aforesaid park in suits or prosecutions for or on account of rights acquired, obligations incurred, or crimes committed outside of said park, and saving further to the Territory of Hawaii the right to tax persons and corporations, their franchises and property on the lands included in said park. All the laws applicable to places under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States shall have force and effect in said park. All fugitives from justice taking refuge in said park shall be subject to the same laws as refugees from justice found in the Territory of Hawaii.

*([Apr. 19, 1930, ch. 200, § 1](/us/act/1930-04-19/ch200/s1), [46 Stat. 227](/us/stat/46/227).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Hawaiʻi Volcanoes National Park

Designation of portion of Hawaii National Park situated on island of Hawaii as Hawaiʻi Volcanoes National Park, effective Sept. 22, 1961, see [section 391d of this title](/us/usc/t16/s391d).

#### Haleakala̅ National Park

Establishment of detached portion of Hawaii National Park lying on island of Maui as Haleakala̅ National Park, effective July 1, 1961, see [section 396b of this title](/us/usc/t16/s396b).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Admission of Hawaii as State

Admission of Hawaii into the Union was accomplished Aug. 21, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3309, Aug. 21, 1959, 24 F.R. 6868, 73 Stat. c74, as required by sections 1 and 7(c) of [Pub. L. 86–3](/us/pl/86/3), Mar. 18, 1959, [73 Stat. 4](/us/stat/73/4), set out as notes preceding [section 491 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s491), Territories and Insular Possessions.
