---
title: "§ 3505. Prevention of departure"
identifier: "USC-T46-S3505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section3505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 520](/us/stat/97/520); [Pub. L. 102–587, title V, § 5210(b)](/us/pl/102/587/tV/s5210/b), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5076](/us/stat/106/5076); [Pub. L. 108–293, title IV, § 411(a)](/us/pl/108/293/tIV/s411/a), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1045](/us/stat/118/1045).)"
---
# § 3505. Prevention of departure

##### § 3505. Prevention of departure

Notwithstanding [section 3303 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s3303), a foreign vessel carrying a citizen of the United States as a passenger or embarking passengers from a United States port may not depart from a United States port if the Secretary finds that the vessel does not comply with the standards stated in the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea to which the United States Government is currently a party.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 520](/us/stat/97/520); [Pub. L. 102–587, title V, § 5210(b)](/us/pl/102/587/tV/s5210/b), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5076](/us/stat/106/5076); [Pub. L. 108–293, title IV, § 411(a)](/us/pl/108/293/tIV/s411/a), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1045](/us/stat/118/1045).)*

Section 3505 prohibits the departure from a United States port or place of any passenger vessel of more than 100 gross tons having berthing for at least 50 passengers, if the vessel does not comply with the international maritime safety standards applicable to United States vessels.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 3505 | 46:362(c) |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—[Pub. L. 108–293](/us/pl/108/293) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Notwithstanding [section 3303(a) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s3303/a), a foreign vessel may not depart from a United States port with passengers who are embarked at that port, if the Secretary finds that the vessel does not comply with the standards stated in the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea to which the United States Government is currently a party.”

1992—[Pub. L. 102–587](/us/pl/102/587) substituted “foreign vessel may not depart” for “foreign or domestic vessel of more than 100 gross tons having berth or stateroom accommodations for at least 50 passengers may not depart”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea

For International Conventions for the Safety of Life at Sea to which the United States has been a party, see [section 1602 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s1602), Navigation and Navigable Waters, and notes thereunder.
