---
title: "§ 1430c. Housing goals"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1430c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1430c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([July 22, 1932, ch. 522, § 10C](/us/act/1932-07-22/ch522/s10C), as added [Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title II, § 1205](/us/pl/110/289/dA/tII/s1205), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2786](/us/stat/122/2786).)"
---
# § 1430c. Housing goals

##### § 1430c. Housing goals

(a) In general The Director shall establish housing goals with respect to the purchase of mortgages, if any, by the Federal Home Loan Banks. Such goals shall be consistent with the goals established under sections 4561 through 4564 of this title.

(b) Considerations In establishing the goals required by subsection (a), the Director shall consider the unique mission and ownership structure of the Federal Home Loan Banks.

(c) Transition period To facilitate an orderly transition, the Director shall establish interim target goals for purposes of this section for each of the 2 calendar years following July 30, 2008.

(d) Monitoring and enforcement of goals The requirements of section 4566 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, shall apply to this section, in the same manner and to the same extent as that section applies to the Federal housing enterprises.

(e) Annual report The Director shall annually report to Congress on the performance of the Banks in meeting the goals established under this section.

*([July 22, 1932, ch. 522, § 10C](/us/act/1932-07-22/ch522/s10C), as added [Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title II, § 1205](/us/pl/110/289/dA/tII/s1205), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2786](/us/stat/122/2786).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 4566 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s4566), referred to in subsec. (d), was in the original “section 1336 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Safety and Soundness Act of 1992”, which was translated as meaning section 1336 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
