---
title: "§ 2005. Financial assistance by Surgeon General"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2005"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2005"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–151, § 1](/us/pl/85/151/s1), Aug. 16, 1957, [71 Stat. 370](/us/stat/71/370).)"
---
# § 2005. Financial assistance by Surgeon General

##### § 2005. Financial assistance by Surgeon General

Whenever the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service, in carrying out his functions under subchapter I of this chapter with respect to the provision of health services to Indians in any particular area, determines, after consultation with such Indians, that the provision of financial assistance to one or more public or other nonprofit agencies or organizations for the construction of a community hospital constitutes a method of making needed hospital facilities available for such Indians which is more desirable and effective than direct Federal construction, he may provide such financial assistance from funds available for the construction of Indian health facilities for such Indians.

*([Pub. L. 85–151, § 1](/us/pl/85/151/s1), Aug. 16, 1957, [71 Stat. 370](/us/stat/71/370).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Office of Surgeon General abolished by section 3 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, eff. June 25, 1966, 31 F.R. 8855, [80 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/80/1610), and functions thereof transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 1 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202). Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare redesignated Secretary of Health and Human Services by [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education. Office of Surgeon General reestablished within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, see Notice of Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Mar. 30, 1987, 52 F.R. 11754.
