---
title: "§ 3144. Wilderness portion of study"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3144"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3144"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–487, title X, § 1004](/us/pl/96/487/tX/s1004), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2452](/us/stat/94/2452).)"
---
# § 3144. Wilderness portion of study

##### § 3144. Wilderness portion of study

(a) Suitability of lands for preservation as wilderness; report to President As part of the study, the Secretary shall review the suitability or nonsuitability for preservation as wilderness of the Federal lands described in [section 3141 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3141) and report his findings to the President.

(b) Presidential recommendations to Congress The President shall advise the Senate and the House of Representatives of his recommendations with respect to the designation of the area or any part thereof as wilderness together with a map thereof and a definition of its boundaries.

(c) Preservation of wilderness character and potential Subject to valid existing rights and the provisions of [section 3142 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3142), the wilderness study area designated by this section shall, until Congress determines otherwise, be administered by the Secretary so as to maintain presently existing wilderness character and potential for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System. Already established uses may be permitted to continue, subject to such restrictions as the Secretary deems desirable, in the manner and degree in which the same were being conducted on December 2, 1980.

*([Pub. L. 96–487, title X, § 1004](/us/pl/96/487/tX/s1004), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2452](/us/stat/94/2452).)*
