---
title: "§ 4510. Enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4510"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4510"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–180, title I, § 119](/us/pl/98/180/tI/s119), Nov. 29, 1983, [97 Stat. 1142](/us/stat/97/1142).)"
---
# § 4510. Enforcement

##### § 4510. Enforcement

(a) Restraining order; civil action; minor violation The district courts of the United States are vested with jurisdiction specifically to enforce, and to prevent and restrain any person from violating, any order or regulation made or issued under this subchapter. Any civil action authorized to be brought under this subsection shall be referred to the Attorney General for appropriate action, except that the Secretary is not required to refer to the Attorney General minor violations of this subchapter whenever the Secretary believes that the administration and enforcement of this subchapter would be adequately served by suitable written notice or warning to any person committing such violation.

(b) Civil penalties Any person who willfully violates any provision of any order issued by the Secretary under this subchapter shall be assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than $1,000 for each such violation and, in the case of a willful failure to pay, collect, or remit the assessment as required by the order, in addition to the amount due, a penalty equal to the amount of the assessment on the quantity of milk as to which the failure applies. The amount of any such penalty shall accrue to the United States and may be recovered in a civil suit brought by the United States.

(c) Availability of other remedies The remedies provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be in addition to, and not exclusive of, other remedies that may be available.

*([Pub. L. 98–180, title I, § 119](/us/pl/98/180/tI/s119), Nov. 29, 1983, [97 Stat. 1142](/us/stat/97/1142).)*
