---
title: "§ 288f–3. Immunities for International Committee of the Red Cross"
identifier: "USC-T22-S288f–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section288f–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Dec. 29, 1945, ch. 652](/us/act/1945-12-29/ch652), title I, § 13, as added [Pub. L. 100–204, title VII, § 743](/us/pl/100/204/tVII/s743), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1395](/us/stat/101/1395).)"
---
# § 288f–3. Immunities for International Committee of the Red Cross

##### § 288f–3. Immunities for International Committee of the Red Cross

The International Committee of the Red Cross, in view of its unique status as an impartial humanitarian body named in the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and assisting in their implementation, shall be considered to be an international organization for the purposes of this subchapter and may be extended the provisions of this subchapter in the same manner, to the same extent, and subject to the same conditions, as such provisions may be extended to a public international organization in which the United States participates pursuant to any treaty or under the authority of any Act of Congress authorizing such participation or making an appropriation for such participation.

*([Dec. 29, 1945, ch. 652](/us/act/1945-12-29/ch652), title I, § 13, as added [Pub. L. 100–204, title VII, § 743](/us/pl/100/204/tVII/s743), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1395](/us/stat/101/1395).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [act Dec. 29, 1945, ch. 652](/us/act/1945-12-29/ch652), [59 Stat. 669](/us/stat/59/669), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 288 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s288) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Executive Order

For executive orders designating certain international organizations as public international organizations entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by the International Organizations Immunities Act (this subchapter), see notes set out under [section 288 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s288).
