---
title: "§ 6067. Sense of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T20-S6067"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section6067"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–227, title X, § 1022](/us/pl/103/227/tX/s1022), Mar. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 270](/us/stat/108/270).)"
---
# § 6067. Sense of Congress

##### § 6067. Sense of Congress

(1) no funds appropriated pursuant to this chapter should be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance the entity will comply with chapter 83 of title 41;

(2) in the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be purchased with financial assistance provided under this chapter, entities receiving such assistance should, in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products;

(3) in providing financial assistance under this chapter, the head of each Federal agency should provide to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement made in subsection (a) 11 So in original. No subsec. (a) has been enacted. by the Congress; and

(4) if it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a “Made in America” inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the United States, such person should be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this chapter, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations, as such sections existed on March 31, 1994.

*([Pub. L. 103–227, title X, § 1022](/us/pl/103/227/tX/s1022), Mar. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 270](/us/stat/108/270).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In par. (1), “chapter 83 of title 41” substituted for “sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1993 ([41 U.S.C. 10a–10c](/us/usc/t41/s10a–10c), popularly known as the ‘Buy American Act’)” on authority of [Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c)](/us/pl/111/350/s6/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3854](/us/stat/124/3854), which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

Another [section 1022 of Pub. L. 103–227](/us/pl/103/227/s1022) was classified to [section 6055a of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6055a), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 107–279](/us/pl/107/279).
