---
title: "§ 7925. Sense of Congress on protecting student privacy"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7925"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7925"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8545](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8545), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8037](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8037), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2119](/us/stat/129/2119).)"
---
# § 7925. Sense of Congress on protecting student privacy

##### § 7925. Sense of Congress on protecting student privacy

(a) Findings The Congress finds as follows:

(1) Students’ personally identifiable information is important to protect.

(2) Students’ information should not be shared with individuals other than school officials in charge of educating those students without clear notice to parents.

(3) With the use of more technology, and more research about student learning, the responsibility to protect students’ personally identifiable information is more important than ever.

(4) Regulations allowing more access to students’ personal information could allow that information to be shared or sold by individuals who do not have the best interest of the students in mind.

(5) The Secretary has the responsibility to ensure every entity that receives funding under this chapter holds any personally identifiable information in strict confidence.

(b) Sense of Congress It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary should review all regulations addressing issues of student privacy, including those under this chapter, and ensure that students’ personally identifiable information is protected.

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8545](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8545), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8037](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8037), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2119](/us/stat/129/2119).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
