---
title: "§ 5107. Transfer and exchange of restricted Indian lands and shares of Indian tribes and corporations"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 18, 1934, ch. 576, § 4](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576/s4), [48 Stat. 985](/us/stat/48/985); [Pub. L. 96–363, § 1](/us/pl/96/363/s1), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1207](/us/stat/94/1207); [Pub. L. 106–462, title I, § 106(c)](/us/pl/106/462/tI/s106/c), Nov. 7, 2000, [114 Stat. 2007](/us/stat/114/2007); [Pub. L. 108–374, § 6(d)](/us/pl/108/374/s6/d), Oct. 27, 2004, [118 Stat. 1805](/us/stat/118/1805); [Pub. L. 109–157, § 8(b)](/us/pl/109/157/s8/b), Dec. 30, 2005, [119 Stat. 2952](/us/stat/119/2952);"
---
# § 5107. Transfer and exchange of restricted Indian lands and shares of Indian tribes and corporations

##### § 5107. Transfer and exchange of restricted Indian lands and shares of Indian tribes and corporations

Except as provided in this Act, no sale, devise, gift, exchange, or other transfer of restricted Indian lands or of shares in the assets of any Indian tribe or corporation organized under this Act shall be made or approved: *Provided*, That such lands or interests may, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, be sold, devised, or otherwise transferred to the Indian tribe in which the lands or shares are located or from which the shares were derived, or to a successor corporation: *Provided further*, That, subject to section 8(b) of the American Indian Probate Reform Act of 2004 ([Public Law 108–374](/us/pl/108/374); [25 U.S.C. 2201](/us/usc/t25/s2201) note), lands and shares described in the preceding proviso shall descend or be devised to any member of an Indian tribe or corporation described in that proviso or to an heir or lineal descendant of such a member in accordance with the Indian Land Consolidation Act ([25 U.S.C. 2201](/us/usc/t25/s2201) et seq.), including a tribal probate code approved, or regulations promulgated under, that Act: *Provided further*, That the Secretary of the Interior may authorize any voluntary exchanges of lands of equal value and the voluntary exchange of shares of equal value whenever such exchange, in the judgment of the Secretary, is expedient and beneficial for or compatible with the proper consolidation of Indian lands and for the benefit of cooperative organizations.

*([June 18, 1934, ch. 576, § 4](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576/s4), [48 Stat. 985](/us/stat/48/985); [Pub. L. 96–363, § 1](/us/pl/96/363/s1), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1207](/us/stat/94/1207); [Pub. L. 106–462, title I, § 106(c)](/us/pl/106/462/tI/s106/c), Nov. 7, 2000, [114 Stat. 2007](/us/stat/114/2007); [Pub. L. 108–374, § 6(d)](/us/pl/108/374/s6/d), Oct. 27, 2004, [118 Stat. 1805](/us/stat/118/1805); [Pub. L. 109–157, § 8(b)](/us/pl/109/157/s8/b), Dec. 30, 2005, [119 Stat. 2952](/us/stat/119/2952); [Pub. L. 109–221, title V, § 501(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/221/tV/s501/b/1), May 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 343](/us/stat/120/343).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [act June 18, 1934, ch. 576](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576), [48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

The Indian Land Consolidation Act, referred to in text, is title II of [Pub. L. 97–459](/us/pl/97/459), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2517](/us/stat/96/2517), which is classified generally to chapter 24 (§ 2201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2201) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 464 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s464) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–221](/us/pl/109/221) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text related to transfer and exchange of restricted Indian land and shares of Indian tribes and corporations.

2005—[Pub. L. 109–157](/us/pl/109/157) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text related to transfer of restricted Indian lands or shares in assets of Indian tribes or corporation and exchange of lands.

2004—[Pub. L. 108–374, § 6(d)(1)](/us/pl/108/374/s6/d/1), (2), in first proviso, struck out “, in accordance with the then existing laws of the State, or Federal laws where applicable, in which said lands are located or in which the subject matter of the corporation is located,” after “descend or be devised” and “, except as provided by the Indian Land Consolidation Act, any other Indian person for whom the Secretary of the Interior determines that the United States may hold land in trust:” after “lineal descendants of such member or”.

[Pub. L. 108–374, § 6(d)(3)](/us/pl/108/374/s6/d/3), which directed insertion of “in accordance with the Indian Land Consolidation Act ([25 U.S.C. 2201](/us/usc/t25/s2201) et seq.) (including a tribal probate code approved under that Act or regulations promulgated under that Act):” in first proviso without specifying where the insertion was to be made, was executed by making the insertion at end of first proviso, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

2000—[Pub. L. 106–462](/us/pl/106/462), which directed the amendment of this section by substituting “member or, except as provided by the Indian Land Consolidation Act,” for “member or:”, was executed by making the substitution for “member or” before “any other Indian person” to reflect the probable intent of Congress because the phrase “member or:” did not appear in text.

1980—[Pub. L. 96–363](/us/pl/96/363), which directed the amendment of the first proviso of this section by substituting “or any heirs or lineal descendants of such member or any other Indian person for whom the Secretary of the Interior determines that the United States may hold land in trust” for “or any heirs of such members”, was executed by making the substitution for “or any heirs of such member” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–221](/us/pl/109/221) effective as if included in the enactment of [Pub. L. 108–374](/us/pl/108/374), see [section 501(c) of Pub. L. 109–221](/us/pl/109/221/s501/c), set out as a note under [section 348 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s348).

#### Effective Date of 2005 Amendment

[Pub. L. 109–157, § 9](/us/pl/109/157/s9), Dec. 30, 2005, [119 Stat. 2953](/us/stat/119/2953), provided that: “The amendments made by this Act [amending this section, sections 2204 to 2206, 2212, 2214, and 2216 of this title and provisions set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2201)] shall be effective as if included in the American Indian Probate Reform Act of 2004 ([25 U.S.C. 2201](/us/usc/t25/s2201) note; [Public Law 108–374](/us/pl/108/374)).”

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–374](/us/pl/108/374) applicable on and after the date that is 1 year after June 20, 2005, see [section 8(b) of Pub. L. 108–374](/us/pl/108/374/s8/b), set out as a Notice; Effective Date of 2004 Amendment note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2201).
