---
title: "§ 14903. Boards of inquiry"
identifier: "USC-T10-S14903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section14903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2958](/us/stat/108/2958); amended [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, § 1501(b)(32)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXV/s1501/b/32), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 498](/us/stat/110/498).)"
---
# § 14903. Boards of inquiry

##### § 14903. Boards of inquiry

(a) Convening of Boards.— The Secretary of the military department concerned shall convene a board of inquiry at such time and place as the Secretary may prescribe to receive evidence and review the case of any officer who has been required to show cause for retention in an active status under [section 14902 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14902). Each board of inquiry shall be composed of not less than three officers who have the qualifications prescribed in [section 14906 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14906).

(b) Right to Fair Hearing.— A board of inquiry shall give a fair and impartial hearing to each officer required under [section 14902 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14902) to show cause for retention in an active status.

(c) Recommendations to Secretary.— If a board of inquiry determines that the officer has failed to establish that the officer should be retained in an active status, the board shall recommend to the Secretary concerned that the officer not be retained in an active status.

(d) Action by Secretary.— After review of the recommendation of the board of inquiry, the Secretary may—

(1) remove the officer from an active status; or

(2) determine that the case be closed.

(e) Action in Cases Where Cause for Retention Is Established.—

(1) If a board of inquiry determines that an officer has established that the officer should be retained in an active status or if the Secretary determines that the case be closed, the officer’s case is closed.

(2) An officer who is required to show cause for retention under [section 14902(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14902/a) and whose case is closed under paragraph (1) may not again be required to show cause for retention under such subsection during the one-year period beginning on the date of that determination.

(3)

(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), an officer who is required to show cause for retention under [section 14902(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14902/b) and whose case is closed under paragraph (1) may again be required to show cause for retention at any time.

(B) An officer who has been required to show cause for retention under [section 14902(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14902/b) and who is thereafter retained in an active status may not again be required to show cause for retention under such section solely because of conduct which was the subject of the previous proceeding, unless the recommendations of the board of inquiry that considered the officer’s case are determined to have been obtained by fraud or collusion.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2958](/us/stat/108/2958); amended [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, § 1501(b)(32)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXV/s1501/b/32), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 498](/us/stat/110/498).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) substituted “title” for “chapter”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) effective as if included in the Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act, title XVI of [Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337), as enacted on Oct. 5, 1994, see [section 1501(f)(3) of Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106/s1501/f/3), set out as a note under [section 113 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s113).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 1691(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691/b/1), set out as a note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).
