---
title: "§ 3672. Requirement of specific authorization by law for appropriation, and for obligation and expenditure, of funds for certain contracts relating to aircraft, naval vessels, and combat vehicles"
identifier: "USC-T10-S3672"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3672"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1825(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1825/a), (d), (e), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4206](/us/stat/134/4206), 4207.)"
---
# § 3672. Requirement of specific authorization by law for appropriation, and for obligation and expenditure, of funds for certain contracts relating to aircraft, naval vessels, and combat vehicles

##### § 3672. Requirement of specific authorization by law for appropriation, and for obligation and expenditure, of funds for certain contracts relating to aircraft, naval vessels, and combat vehicles

(a) Limitation.— Funds may not be appropriated for any fiscal year to or for any armed force or obligated or expended for—

unless funds for that purpose have been specifically authorized by law.

(1) the long-term lease or charter of any aircraft, naval vessel, or combat vehicle; or

(2) for the lease or charter of any aircraft, naval vessel, or combat vehicle the terms of which provide for a substantial termination liability on the part of the United States,

(b) Matter to Be Submitted to Congress.—

(1) Whenever a request is submitted to Congress for the authorization of the long-term lease or charter of aircraft, naval vessels, or combat vehicles or for the authorization of a lease or charter of aircraft, naval vessels, or combat vehicles which provides for a substantial termination liability on the part of the United States, the Secretary of Defense shall submit with that request an analysis of the cost to the United States (including lost tax revenues) of any such lease or charter arrangement compared with the cost to the United States of direct procurement of the aircraft, naval vessels, or combat vehicles by the United States.

(2) Any such analysis shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Secretary of the Treasury within 30 days after the date on which the request and analysis are submitted to Congress. The Director and Secretary shall conduct such review and evaluation on the basis of the guidelines issued pursuant to [section 3676 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3676) and shall report to Congress in writing on the results of their review and evaluation at the earliest practicable date, but in no event more than 45 days after the date on which the request and analysis are submitted to the Congress.

(3) Whenever a request is submitted to Congress for the authorization of funds for the Department of Defense for the long-term lease or charter of aircraft, naval vessels, or combat vehicles authorized under this chapter, the Secretary of Defense—

(A) shall indicate in the request what portion of the requested funds is attributable to capital-hire; and

(B) shall reflect such portion in the appropriate procurement account in the request.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1825(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1825/a), (d), (e), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4206](/us/stat/134/4206), 4207.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The text of par. (1) of subsec. (c) of [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2401), which was transferred to this section, redesignated as subsec. (a), and amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1825(d)](/us/pl/116/283/s1825/d), was based on [Pub. L. 98–94, title XII, § 1202(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/94/tXII/s1202/a/1), Sept. 24, 1983, [97 Stat. 679](/us/stat/97/679); [Pub. L. 98–525, title XII, § 1232(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/525/tXII/s1232/a/1), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2600](/us/stat/98/2600); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VIII, § 815(a)(2)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVIII/s815/a/2), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3381](/us/stat/119/3381).

The text of subsec. (e) of [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2401), which was transferred to this section, redesignated as subsec. (b), and amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1825(e)](/us/pl/116/283/s1825/e), was based on [Pub. L. 98–94, title XII, § 1202(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/94/tXII/s1202/a/1), Sept. 24, 1983, [97 Stat. 679](/us/stat/97/679); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VIII, § 815(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVIII/s815/a/3), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3381](/us/stat/119/3381); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVII, § 1731(a)(48)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXVII/s1731/a/48), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1815](/us/stat/133/1815).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1825(d)](/us/pl/116/283/s1825/d), after transfer of par. (2) of [section 2401(c) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2401/c) to [section 3673 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3673), redesignated remainder of subsec. (c) of [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2401) as subsec. (a) of this section, inserted heading, struck out par. (1) designation before “Funds may not”, and redesignated subpars. (A) and (B) of such former par. (1) as pars. (1) and (2), respectively.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1825(e)](/us/pl/116/283/s1825/e), redesignated subsec. (e) of [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2401) as subsec. (b) of this section, inserted heading, and substituted “[section 3676 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3676)” for “subsection (g)” in par. (2) and “this chapter” for “this section” in introductory provisions of par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
