---
title: "§ 16139. Settlement agreement provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16139"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16139"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–255, § 2](/us/pl/110/255/s2), June 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2423](/us/stat/122/2423).)"
---
# § 16139. Settlement agreement provisions

##### § 16139. Settlement agreement provisions

In any settlement agreement regarding alleged violations of environmental law in which a defendant agrees to perform a diesel emissions reduction Supplemental Environmental Project, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall require the defendant to include in the settlement documents a certification under penalty of law that the defendant would have agreed to perform a comparably valued, alternative project other than a diesel emissions reduction Supplemental Environmental Project if the Administrator were precluded by law from accepting a diesel emission reduction Supplemental Environmental Project. A failure by the Administrator to include this language in such a settlement agreement shall not create a cause of action against the United States under the Clean Air Act [[42 U.S.C. 7401](/us/usc/t42/s7401) et seq.] or any other law or create a basis for overturning a settlement agreement entered into by the United States.

*([Pub. L. 110–255, § 2](/us/pl/110/255/s2), June 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2423](/us/stat/122/2423).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Clean Air Act, referred to in text, is [act July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), [69 Stat. 322](/us/stat/69/322), which is classified generally to chapter 85 (§ 7401 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7401) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which comprises this chapter.
