---
title: "§ 7276c. Miscellaneous provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7276c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7276c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–381, title II, § 205](/us/pl/98/381/tII/s205), as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 114](/us/pl/102/486/tI/s114), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2803](/us/stat/106/2803).)"
---
# § 7276c. Miscellaneous provisions

##### § 7276c. Miscellaneous provisions

(a) Environmental impact statement The provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [[42 U.S.C. 4321](/us/usc/t42/s4321) et seq.] shall apply to actions of the Administrator implementing sections 7275 to 7276c of this title in the same manner and to the same extent as such provisions apply to other major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment.

(b) Annual reports The Administrator shall include in the annual report submitted by the Western Area Power Administration (1) a description of the activities undertaken by the Administrator and by customers under sections 7275 to 7276c of this title and (2) an estimate of the energy savings and renewable resource benefits achieved as a result of such activities.

(c) State regulated investor-owned utilities Any State regulated electric utility (as defined in [section 2602(18) of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s2602/18)) shall be exempt from the provisions of sections 7275 to 7276c of this title.

(d) Rural Electrification Administration requirements Nothing in sections 7275 to 7276c of this title shall require a customer to take any action inconsistent with a requirement imposed by the Rural Electrification Administration 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.

*([Pub. L. 98–381, title II, § 205](/us/pl/98/381/tII/s205), as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 114](/us/pl/102/486/tI/s114), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2803](/us/stat/106/2803).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 91–190](/us/pl/91/190), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 852](/us/stat/83/852), which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4321 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4321) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Hoover Power Plant Act of 1984, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
