---
title: "§ 7912. Processing site designations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7912"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7912"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–604, title I, § 102](/us/pl/95/604/tI/s102), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3023](/us/stat/92/3023); [Pub. L. 97–415, § 21](/us/pl/97/415/s21), Jan. 4, 1983, [96 Stat. 2079](/us/stat/96/2079); [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXIV, § 3403(b)]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXIV/s3403/b), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–489; [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 809(n)(4)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s809/n/4), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1844](/us/stat/132/1844).)"
---
# § 7912. Processing site designations

##### § 7912. Processing site designations

(a) Specific and other site locations; remedial action; consultations; boundaries; Grand Junction, Colorado, site restriction

(1) As soon as practicable, but no later than one year after November 8, 1978, the Secretary shall designate processing sites at or near the following locations:Salt Lake City, Utah Green River, Utah Mexican Hat, Utah Durango, Colorado Grand Junction, Colorado Rifle, Colorado (two sites) Gunnison, Colorado Naturita, Colorado Maybell, Colorado Slick Rock, Colorado (two sites) Shiprock, New Mexico Ambrosia Lake, New Mexico Riverton, Wyoming Converse County, Wyoming Lakeview, Oregon Falls City, Texas Tuba City, Arizona Monument Valley, Arizona Lowman, Idaho Cannonsburg, Pennsylvania Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary shall complete remedial action at the above listed sites before his authority terminates under this subchapter. The Secretary shall within one year of November 8, 1978, also designate all other processing sites within the United States which he determines requires remedial action to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. In making such designation, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator, the Commission, and the affected States, and in the case of Indian lands, the appropriate Indian tribe and the Secretary of the Interior.

(2) As part of his designation under this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with the Commission, shall determine the boundaries of each such site.

(3) No site or structure with respect to which remedial action is authorized under [Public Law 92–314](/us/pl/92/314) in Grand Junction, Colorado, may be designated by the Secretary as a processing site under this section.

(b) Health hazard assessment; priorities for remedial action Within one year from November 8, 1978, the Secretary shall assess the potential health hazard to the public from the residual radioactive materials at designated processing sites. Based upon such assessment, the Secretary shall, within such one year period, establish priorities for carrying out remedial action at each such site. In establishing such priorities, the Secretary shall rely primarily on the advice of the Administrator.

(c) Notification Within thirty days after making designations of processing sites and establishing the priorities for such sites under this section, the Secretary shall notify the Governor of each affected State, and, where appropriate, the Indian tribes and the Secretary of the Interior.

(d) Finality of determinations The designations made, and priorities established, by the Secretary under this section shall be final and not be subject to judicial review.

(e) Certain real property or improved areas

(1) The designation of processing sites within one year after November 8, 1978, under this section shall include, to the maximum extent practicable, the areas referred to in [section 7911(6)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7911/6/B).

(2) Notwithstanding the one year limitation contained in this section, the Secretary may, after such one year period, include any area described in [section 7911(6)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7911/6/B) as part of a processing site designated under this section if he determines such inclusion to be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

(3) The Secretary shall designate as a processing site within the meaning of [section 7911(6) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7911/6) any real property, or improvements thereon, in Edgemont, South Dakota, that—

In making the designation under this paragraph, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator, the Commission and the State of South Dakota. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the site so designated in the same manner and to the same extent as to the sites designated under subsection (a) except that, in applying such provisions to such site, any reference in this subchapter to November 8, 1978, shall be treated as a reference to January 4, 1983, and in determining the State share under [section 7917 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7917) of the costs of remedial action, there shall be credited to the State, expenditures made by the State prior to January 4, 1983, which the Secretary determines would have been made by the State or the United States in carrying out the requirements of this subchapter.

(A) is in the vicinity of the Tennessee Valley Authority uranium mill site at Edgemont (but not including such site), and

(B) is determined by the Secretary to be contaminated with residual radioactive materials.

(f) Designation of Moab Site as processing site

(1) Designation Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Moab uranium milling site (referred to in this subsection as the “Moab site”) located approximately three miles northwest of Moab, Utah, and identified in the Final Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in March 1996 in conjunction with Source Materials License No. SUA–917, is designated as a processing site.

(2) Applicability This subchapter applies to the Moab site in the same manner and to the same extent as to other processing sites designated under subsection (a), except that—

(A) sections 7913, 7914(b), 7917(a), 7922(a), and 7925(a) of this title shall not apply; and

(B) a reference in this subchapter to November 8, 1978, shall be treated as a reference to October 30, 2000.

(3) Remediation Subject to the availability of appropriations for this purpose, the Secretary shall conduct remediation at the Moab site in a safe and environmentally sound manner that takes into consideration the remedial action plan prepared pursuant to section 3405(i) of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 ([10 U.S.C. 8720](/us/usc/t10/s8720) note; [Public Law 105–261](/us/pl/105/261)), including—

(A) ground water restoration; and

(B) the removal, to a site in the State of Utah, for permanent disposition and any necessary stabilization, of residual radioactive material and other contaminated material from the Moab site and the floodplain of the Colorado River.

*([Pub. L. 95–604, title I, § 102](/us/pl/95/604/tI/s102), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3023](/us/stat/92/3023); [Pub. L. 97–415, § 21](/us/pl/97/415/s21), Jan. 4, 1983, [96 Stat. 2079](/us/stat/96/2079); [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXIV, § 3403(b)]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXIV/s3403/b), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–489; [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 809(n)(4)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s809/n/4), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1844](/us/stat/132/1844).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Remedial action authorized under [Public Law 92–314](/us/pl/92/314), referred to in subsec. (a)(3), means the remedial action authorized by title II of [Pub. L. 92–314](/us/pl/92/314), June 16, 1972, [86 Stat. 222](/us/stat/86/222), which is not classified to the Code.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (f)(3). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) substituted “([10 U.S.C. 8720](/us/usc/t10/s8720) note; [Public Law 105–261](/us/pl/105/261))” for “([10 U.S.C. 7420](/us/usc/t10/s7420) note; [Public Law 105–261](/us/pl/105/261))” in introductory provisions.

2000—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 106–398](/us/pl/106/398) added subsec. (f).

1983—Subsec. (e)(3). [Pub. L. 97–415](/us/pl/97/415) added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s3001), Armed Forces.
