---
title: "§ 2922i. Multiyear contracts: purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2922i"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2922i"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VIII, § 828(a)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tVIII/s828/a), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 229](/us/stat/122/229), § 2410q; renumbered § 2922i, [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1879(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1879/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4293](/us/stat/134/4293).)"
---
# § 2922i. Multiyear contracts: purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources

##### § 2922i. Multiyear contracts: purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources

(a) Multiyear Contracts Authorized.— Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense may enter into a contract for a period not to exceed 10 years for the purchase of electricity from sources of renewable energy, as that term is defined in section 203(b)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ([42 U.S.C. 15852(b)(2)](/us/usc/t42/s15852/b/2)).

(b) Limitations on Contracts for Periods in Excess of Five Years.— The Secretary may exercise the authority in subsection (a) to enter into a contract for a period in excess of five years only if the Secretary determines, on the basis of a business case analysis prepared by the Department of Defense, that—

(1) the proposed purchase of electricity under such contract is cost effective for the Department of Defense; and

(2) it would not be possible to purchase electricity from the source in an economical manner without the use of a contract for a period in excess of five years.

(c) Relationship to Other Multiyear Contracting Authority.— Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the Department of Defense from using other multiyear contracting authority of the Department to purchase renewable energy.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VIII, § 828(a)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tVIII/s828/a), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 229](/us/stat/122/229), § 2410q; renumbered § 2922i, [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1879(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1879/a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4293](/us/stat/134/4293).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) renumbered [section 2410q of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2410q) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
