---
title: "§ 12431. Task force"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12431"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12431"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40901](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40901), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title IV, § 1407](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tIV/s1407), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1517](/us/stat/114/1517).)"
---
# § 12431. Task force

##### § 12431. Task force

(a) Establish The Attorney General, in consultation with national nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations whose primary expertise is in domestic violence, shall establish a task force to coordinate research on domestic violence and to report to Congress on any overlapping or duplication of efforts on domestic violence issues. The task force shall be comprised of representatives from all Federal agencies that fund such research.

(b) Uses of funds Funds appropriated under this section shall be used to—

(1) develop a coordinated strategy to strengthen research focused on domestic violence education, prevention, and intervention strategies;

(2) track and report all Federal research and expenditures on domestic violence; and

(3) identify gaps and duplication of efforts in domestic violence research and governmental expenditures on domestic violence issues.

(c) Report The Task Force shall report to Congress annually on its work under subsection (b).

(d) Definition For purposes of this section, the term “domestic violence” has the meaning given such term by section 10447 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(e) Authorization of Appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $500,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 through 2004.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40901](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40901), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title IV, § 1407](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tIV/s1407), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1517](/us/stat/114/1517).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 10447 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10447), referred to in subsec. (d), was subsequently repealed and a new section 10447 enacted which does not define “domestic violence”. However, such term is defined in [section 12291 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12291).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14042 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14042), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
