---
title: "§ 4222. Block grants for affordable housing activities"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4222"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4222"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s802), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2877](/us/stat/114/2877), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2971](/us/stat/114/2971).)"
---
# § 4222. Block grants for affordable housing activities

##### § 4222. Block grants for affordable housing activities

(a) Grant authority For each fiscal year, the Secretary shall (to the extent amounts are made available to carry out this subchapter) make a grant under this subchapter to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands to carry out affordable housing activities for Native Hawaiian families who are eligible to reside on the Hawaiian Home Lands.

(b) Plan requirement

(1) In general The Secretary may make a grant under this subchapter to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands for a fiscal year only if—

(A) the Director has submitted to the Secretary a housing plan for that fiscal year; and

(B) the Secretary has determined under [section 4224 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4224) that the housing plan complies with the requirements of [section 4223 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4223).

(2) Waiver The Secretary may waive the applicability of the requirements under paragraph (1), in part, if the Secretary finds that the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands has not complied or cannot comply with those requirements due to circumstances beyond the control of the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.

(c) Use of funds for affordable housing activities under plan Except as provided in subsection (e), amounts provided under a grant under this section may be used only for affordable housing activities under this subchapter that are consistent with a housing plan approved under [section 4224 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4224).

(d) Administrative expenses

(1) In general The Secretary shall, by regulation, authorize the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands to use a percentage of any grant amounts received under this subchapter for any reasonable administrative and planning expenses of the Department relating to carrying out this subchapter and activities assisted with those amounts.

(2) Administrative and planning expenses The administrative and planning expenses referred to in paragraph (1) include—

(A) costs for salaries of individuals engaged in administering and managing affordable housing activities assisted with grant amounts provided under this subchapter; and

(B) expenses incurred in preparing a housing plan under [section 4223 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4223).

(e) Public-private partnerships The Director shall make all reasonable efforts, consistent with the purposes of this subchapter, to maximize participation by the private sector, including nonprofit organizations and for-profit entities, in implementing a housing plan that has been approved by the Secretary under [section 4223 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4223).

*([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s802), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2877](/us/stat/114/2877), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2971](/us/stat/114/2971).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 106–568, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/s203), and [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513), enacted identical sections 802 of [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330). This section is based on the text of [section 802 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s802), as added by [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513).
