---
title: "§ 211. Participation in Thrift Savings Plan"
identifier: "USC-T37-S211"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section211"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VI](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tVI), §§ 661(a)(1)(A), 662, Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 670](/us/stat/113/670), 672; [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VI, § 605](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVI/s605), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3287](/us/stat/119/3287); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VI, § 605(b)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tVI/s605/b), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 146](/us/stat/122/146); [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VI, § 632(e)(1)](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tVI/s632/e/1), Nov. 25, 2015, [1"
---
# § 211. Participation in Thrift Savings Plan

##### § 211. Participation in Thrift Savings Plan

(a) Definition.— In this section, the term “member” means—

(1) a member of the uniformed services serving on active duty; and

(2) a member of the Ready Reserve in any pay status.

(b) Authority.— Any member may participate in the Thrift Savings Plan in accordance with [section 8440e of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8440e).

(c) Rule of Construction Regarding Separation.— For purposes of subchapters III and VII of chapter 84 of title 5, each of the following actions shall, in the case of a member participating in the Thrift Savings Plan in accordance with section 8440e of such title, be considered a separation from Government employment:

(1) Release of the member from active duty, not followed, before the end of the 31-day period beginning on the day following the effective date of the release, by—

(A) a resumption of active duty; or

(B) an appointment to a position covered by chapter 83 or 84 of title 5 or an equivalent retirement system, as identified by the Executive Director (appointed by the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board) in regulations.

(2) Transfer of the member to inactive status, or to a retired list pursuant to any provision of title 10.

(d) Repayment of Amounts Borrowed From Member Account.— If a loan is issued to a member under [section 8433(g) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8433/g) from funds in the member’s account in the Thrift Savings Plan, repayment of the loan may be required on the same semi-monthly basis as authorized for contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund on behalf of the member under [section 1014(c) of this title](/us/usc/t37/s1014/c).

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VI](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tVI), §§ 661(a)(1)(A), 662, Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 670](/us/stat/113/670), 672; [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VI, § 605](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVI/s605), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3287](/us/stat/119/3287); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VI, § 605(b)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tVI/s605/b), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 146](/us/stat/122/146); [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VI, § 632(e)(1)](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tVI/s632/e/1), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 847](/us/stat/129/847).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 114–92](/us/pl/114/92) redesignated subsec. (e) as (d) and struck out former subsec. (d) which related to agency contributions for retention in critical specialties and first-time enlistees.

2008—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 110–181](/us/pl/110/181) added subsec. (e).

2006—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 605(b)](/us/pl/109/163/s605/b), inserted “and First-Time Enlistees” after “Specialties” in heading.

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 605(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/s605/a/1), designated existing provisions of subpar. (A) as cl. (i), redesignated former subpar. (B) as cl. (ii) of subpar. (A) and substituted “; or” for period at end, and added a new subpar. (B).

Subsec. (d)(2) to (4). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 605(a)(2)](/us/pl/109/163/s605/a/2)–(4), substituted “member under paragraph (1)(A)” for “member under paragraph (1)” in first sentence of par. (2), added par. (3), designated second sentence of par. (2) as (4), and in par. (4) substituted “this subsection” for “this paragraph”.

1999—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 662](/us/pl/106/65/s662), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment; Implementation

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–92](/us/pl/114/92) effective Jan. 1, 2018, with certain implementation requirements, see [section 635 of Pub. L. 114–92](/us/pl/114/92/s635), set out as a note under [section 8432 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8432), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by [Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65) effective 180 days after Oct. 30, 2000, unless postponed, see [section 663 of Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65/s663), as amended, set out as a note under [section 8440e of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8440e), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Pilot Program on Contributions to Thrift Savings Plan for Initial Enlistees in the Army

[Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VI, § 606](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVI/s606), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3287](/us/stat/119/3287), as amended by [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VI, § 608](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tVI/s608), title X, § 1071(e)(3), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2247](/us/stat/120/2247), 2401, provided for a pilot program on contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan for initial enlistees in the Army to be carried out between Jan. 6, 2006, and Dec. 31, 2008.
