---
title: "§ 5302. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S5302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section5302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–425, § 3](/us/pl/101/425/s3), Oct. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 915](/us/stat/104/915).)"
---
# § 5302. Definitions

##### § 5302. Definitions

(1) “applicant” means:

that is located in a region where the metal casting industry is concentrated;

(A) an educational institution;

(B) a consortium of educational institutions;

(C) a consortium of an educational institution or educational institutions with one or more of the following: Government-owned laboratories, private research organizations, nonprofit institutions, or private firms;

(2) “census region” means one of the four census regions (Northeast, South, Midwest, and West) that are designated as census regions by the Bureau of the Census as of October 15, 1990;

(3) “Department” means the Department of Energy;

(4) “educational institution” means a degree granting institution of at least a baccalaureate level;

(5) “non-Federal source” means the United States metal casting industry, related industries, industry-related associations, individuals, organizations, universities, State agencies, or other entities supporting the metal casting industry;

(6) “metal casting industry” or “industry” means the industries identified by codes numbered 3321, 3322, 3324, 3325, 3363, 3364, 3365, 3366, and 3369, in the Standard Industrial Classification manual 11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. published by the Office of Management and Budget in 1987;

(7) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Energy.

*([Pub. L. 101–425, § 3](/us/pl/101/425/s3), Oct. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 915](/us/stat/104/915).)*
