---
title: "§ 204. Preference for United States industry"
identifier: "USC-T35-S204"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-12"
last_updated: "2025-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title35-section204"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "35"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–517, § 6(a)](/us/pl/96/517/s6/a), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3023](/us/stat/94/3023).)"
---
# § 204. Preference for United States industry

##### § 204. Preference for United States industry

Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no small business firm or nonprofit organization which receives title to any subject invention and no assignee of any such small business firm or nonprofit organization shall grant to any person the exclusive right to use or sell any subject invention in the United States unless such person agrees that any products embodying the subject invention or produced through the use of the subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States. However, in individual cases, the requirement for such an agreement may be waived by the Federal agency under whose funding agreement the invention was made upon a showing by the small business firm, nonprofit organization, or assignee that reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that would be likely to manufacture substantially in the United States or that under the circumstances domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–517, § 6(a)](/us/pl/96/517/s6/a), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 3023](/us/stat/94/3023).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1981, but implementing regulations authorized to be issued earlier, see [section 8(f) of Pub. L. 96–517](/us/pl/96/517/s8/f), set out as an Effective Date of 1980 Amendment note under [section 41 of this title](/us/usc/t35/s41).
