---
title: "§ 1456d. Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1456d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1456d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–77, title II](/us/pl/107/77/tII), Nov. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 776](/us/stat/115/776).)"
---
# § 1456d. Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program

##### § 1456d. Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program

The Secretary shall establish a Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program, for the purpose of protecting important coastal and estuarine areas that have significant conservation, recreation, ecological, historical, or aesthetic values, or that are threatened by conversion from their natural or recreational state to other uses: *Provided further*, That by September 30, 2002, the Secretary shall issue guidelines for this program delineating the criteria for grant awards: *Provided further*, That the Secretary shall distribute these funds in consultation with the States’ Coastal Zone Managers’ or Governors’ designated representatives based on demonstrated need and ability to successfully leverage funds, and shall give priority to lands which can be effectively managed and protected and which have significant ecological value: *Provided further*, That grants funded under this program shall require a 100 percent match from other sources.

*([Pub. L. 107–77, title II](/us/pl/107/77/tII), Nov. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 776](/us/stat/115/776).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002, and also as part of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002, and not as part of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Similar Provisions

[Pub. L. 108–7, div. B, title II](/us/pl/108/7/dB/tII), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 75](/us/stat/117/75), provided in part: “That the Secretary shall establish a Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program, for the purpose of protecting important coastal and estuarine areas that have significant conservation, recreation, ecological, historical, or aesthetic values, or that are threatened by conversion from their natural or recreational state to other uses”.
