---
title: "§ 15302. Authority to exempt pipeline carrier transportation"
identifier: "USC-T49-S15302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section15302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 923](/us/stat/109/923).)"
---
# § 15302. Authority to exempt pipeline carrier transportation

##### § 15302. Authority to exempt pipeline carrier transportation

(a) In General— In a matter related to a pipeline carrier providing transportation subject to jurisdiction under this chapter, the Board shall exempt a person, class of persons, or a transaction or service when the Board finds that the application, in whole or in part, of a provision of this part—

(1) is not necessary to carry out the transportation policy of section 15101; and

(2) either (A) the transaction or service is of limited scope, or (B) the application, in whole or in part, of the provision is not needed to protect shippers from the abuse of market power.

(b) Initiation of Proceeding.— The Board may, where appropriate, begin a proceeding under this section on its own initiative or an interested party.

(c) Period of Exemption.— The Board may specify the period of time during which an exemption granted under this section is effective.

(d) Revocation.— The Board may revoke an exemption, to the extent it specifies, when it finds that application, in whole or in part, of a provision of this part to the person, class, or transportation is necessary to carry out the transportation policy of section 15101.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s106/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 923](/us/stat/109/923).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
