---
title: "§ 5320. Injunctions"
identifier: "USC-T31-S5320"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section5320"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 999](/us/stat/96/999).)"
---
# § 5320. Injunctions

##### § 5320. Injunctions

When the Secretary of the Treasury believes a person has violated, is violating, or will violate this subchapter or a regulation prescribed or order issued under this subchapter, the Secretary may bring a civil action in the appropriate district court of the United States or appropriate United States court of a territory or possession of the United States to enjoin the violation or to enforce compliance with the subchapter, regulation, or order. An injunction or temporary restraining order shall be issued without bond.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 999](/us/stat/96/999).)*

The words “has violated, is violating, or will violate this subchapter” are substituted for “has engaged, is engaged, or is about to engage in any acts or practices constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter” in 31:1057 and “failed to submit a report required under any rule or regulation issued under this subchapter or has violated any rule or regulation issued hereunder” in 31:1143(b)(words before last comma) to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “or a regulation prescribed” are added because of the restatement. The words “in his discretion” are omitted as surplus. The word “civil” is added because of rule 2 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 App. U.S.C.). The word “possession” is substituted for “other place subject to the jurisdiction” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code. The words “or to enforce compliance with the subchapter, regulation, or order” are substituted for 31:1057(last sentence) and the words “a mandatory injunction commanding such person to comply with such rule or regulation” in 31:1143(b)(words before last comma) to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “and upon a proper showing . . . permanent or” are omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 5320 | 31:1057. | Oct. 26, 1970, Pub. L. 91–508, § 208, 84 Stat. 1120. |
|  | 31:1143(b)(words before last comma). | Sept. 21, 1973, Pub. L. 93–110, § 203(b)(words be­fore last comma), 87 Stat. 353. |
