---
title: "§ 460vv–13. Planning"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460vv–13"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460vv–13"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–499, § 15](/us/pl/100/499/s15), Oct. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/102/2498).)"
---
# § 460vv–13. Planning

##### § 460vv–13. Planning

(a) Forest management plan The Secretary shall amend the Ouachita National Forest land and resource management plan to include provisions regarding the wilderness areas, the botanical areas, the national recreation area, the national scenic and wildlife area, and the national scenic area designated by this subchapter. The amendment shall further the purposes for these areas as specified in this subchapter and shall be developed in accordance with the provisions of the National Forest Management Act, including provisions for public involvement. The Secretary shall consult with the local advisory committee established under [section 460vv–12 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460vv–12) regarding the development and implementation of the amendment required under this subsection.

(b) Tourism and recreation The plan shall include a section with provisions to promote tourism and recreation in ways consistent with the purposes for which the wilderness areas, the botanical areas, the national recreation area, the national scenic and wildlife area and the national scenic area are designated.

(c) Local advisory group No later than 90 days after October 18, 1988, the Secretary shall designate a special advisory group from the local area in which the Ouachita National Forest is located to assist in the preparation of the tourism and recreation section of the amendment as required under subsection (b). The Secretary shall request the group to submit to the Secretary, within 12 months after its designation as an advisory group, a draft for such section. No later than 90 days after receiving such draft, the Secretary shall make any revisions and provide them to the group for review. The Secretary shall allow at least 60 days for the group to submit to the Secretary its comments on the revisions. The Secretary shall attempt to resolve any differences prior to his approval or disapproval of the amendment to the forest plan.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are hereby authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $15,000,000 for tourism and recreation improvements related to the Winding Stair Mountain National Recreation and Wilderness Area in Ouachita National Forest in Le Flore County, Oklahoma.

(e) Implementation The Secretary is authorized and encouraged to seek local nonprofit entities and the private sector for development of tourism and recreation initiatives in implementing the tourism and recreation section of the plan.

*([Pub. L. 100–499, § 15](/us/pl/100/499/s15), Oct. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/102/2498).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Forest Management Act, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means the National Forest Management Act of 1976, [Pub. L. 94–588](/us/pl/94/588), Oct. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 2949](/us/stat/90/2949), which enacted sections 472a, 521b, 1600, and 1611 to 1614 of this title, amended sections 500, 515, 516, 518, 576b, and 1601 to 1610 of this title, repealed sections 476, 513, and 514 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 476, 513, 528, 594–2, and 1600 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1976 Amendment note set out under [section 1600 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1600) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Groups

Advisory groups established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a group established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such group is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a group established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
