---
title: "§ 2901. Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XVIII, § 1801(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXVIII/s1801/a/1), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1751](/us/stat/104/1751).)"
---
# § 2901. Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program

##### § 2901. Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program

(a) The Secretary of Defense shall establish a program to be known as the “Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program”.

(b) The purposes of the program are as follows:

(1) To address environmental matters of concern to the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy through support for basic and applied research and development of technologies that can enhance the capabilities of the departments to meet their environmental obligations.

(2) To identify research, technologies, and other information developed by the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy for national defense purposes that would be useful to governmental and private organizations involved in the development of energy technologies and of technologies to address environmental restoration, waste minimization, hazardous waste substitution, and other environmental concerns, and to share such research, technologies, and other information with such governmental and private organizations.

(3) To furnish other governmental organizations and private organizations with data, enhanced data collection capabilities, and enhanced analytical capabilities for use by such organizations in the conduct of environmental research, including research concerning global environmental change.

(4) To identify technologies developed by the private sector that are useful for Department of Defense and Department of Energy defense activities concerning environmental restoration, hazardous and solid waste minimization and prevention, hazardous material substitution, and provide for the use of such technologies in the conduct of such activities.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XVIII, § 1801(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXVIII/s1801/a/1), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1751](/us/stat/104/1751).)*
