---
title: "§ 1616k. Nursing residency program"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1616k"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1616k"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 118](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s118), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 104(e)](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s104/e), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4534](/us/stat/106/4534); amended [Pub. L. 103–435, § 16(b)](/us/pl/103/435/s16/b), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4573](/us/stat/108/4573).)"
---
# § 1616k. Nursing residency program

##### § 1616k. Nursing residency program

(a) Establishment The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall establish a program to enable licensed practical nurses, licensed vocational nurses, and registered nurses who are working in an Indian health program (as defined in [section 1616a(a)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616a/a/2/A)), and have done so for a period of not less than one year, to pursue advanced training.

(b) Program components Such program shall include a combination of education and work study in an Indian health program (as defined in [section 1616a(a)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616a/a/2/A)) leading to an associate or bachelor’s degree (in the case of a licensed practical nurse or licensed vocational nurse) or a bachelor’s degree (in the case of a registered nurse) or a Master’s degree.

(c) Service obligation of program participant An individual who participates in a program under subsection (a), where the educational costs are paid by the Service, shall incur an obligation to serve in an Indian health program for a period of obligated service equal to at least three times the period of time during which the individual participates in such program. In the event that the individual fails to complete such obligated service, the United States shall be entitled to recover from such individual an amount determined in accordance with the formula specified in subsection (*l*) of [section 1616a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616a) in the manner provided for in such subsection.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 118](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s118), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 104(e)](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s104/e), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4534](/us/stat/106/4534); amended [Pub. L. 103–435, § 16(b)](/us/pl/103/435/s16/b), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4573](/us/stat/108/4573).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–435](/us/pl/103/435) inserted before period at end “or a Master’s degree”.
