---
title: "§ 3313. Competitive service; registers of eligibles"
identifier: "USC-T5-S3313"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section3313"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 420](/us/stat/80/420).)"
---
# § 3313. Competitive service; registers of eligibles

##### § 3313. Competitive service; registers of eligibles

(1) for scientific and professional positions in GS–9 or higher, in the order of their ratings, including points added under [section 3309 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s3309); and

(2) for all other positions—

(A) disabled veterans who have a compensable service-connected disability of 10 percent or more, in order of their ratings, including points added under [section 3309 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s3309); and

(B) remaining applicants, in the order of their ratings, including points added under [section 3309 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s3309).

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 420](/us/stat/80/420).)*

The section is restated for clarity and conciseness. The words “for the competitive service” are added for clarity. Application of this section to the excepted service in the executive branch and to the government of the District of Columbia is carried into section 3320. The words “employment lists” are omitted as included in “appropriate registers or lists of eligibles”.

In paragraph (1), the words “in GS–9 or higher” are substituted for “in grade 9 or higher of the General Schedule of the Classification Act of 1949, as amended” in view of the codification of the Act in this title, and, in specific sections 5104 and 5332.

In paragraph (2)(A), the term “disabled veterans” is substituted for “preference eligibles” in view of the definition of “disabled veteran” in section 2108(2).

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 856. | June 27, 1944, 287, § 7, 58 Stat. 389.Aug. 14, 1953, ch. 485, § 1(b), 67 Stat. 581. |
