---
title: "§ 41506. United States-Mexico Border Violence Task Force"
identifier: "USC-T34-S41506"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section41506"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1106), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/119/3093).)"
---
# § 41506. United States-Mexico Border Violence Task Force

##### § 41506. United States-Mexico Border Violence Task Force

(a) Task Force

(1) The Attorney General shall establish the United States-Mexico Border Violence Task Force in Laredo, Texas, to combat drug and firearms trafficking, violence, and kidnapping along the border between the United States and Mexico and to provide expertise to the law enforcement and homeland security agencies along the border between the United States and Mexico. The Task Force shall include personnel from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Drug Enforcement Administration, Customs and Border Protection, other Federal agencies (as appropriate), the Texas Department of Public Safety, and local law enforcement agencies.

(2) The Attorney General shall make available funds to provide for the ongoing administrative and technological costs to Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies participating in the Task Force.

(b) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2006 through 2009, for—

(1) the establishment and operation of the United States-Mexico Border Violence Task Force; and

(2) the investigation, apprehension, and prosecution of individuals engaged in drug and firearms trafficking, violence, and kidnapping along the border between the United States and Mexico.

*([Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1106), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/119/3093).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 509 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s509), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
