---
title: "§ 6285. Life-cycle cost estimates of certain atomic energy defense capital assets"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6285"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6285"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1434](/us/stat/139/1434).)"
---
# § 6285. Life-cycle cost estimates of certain atomic energy defense capital assets

##### § 6285. Life-cycle cost estimates of certain atomic energy defense capital assets

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that an independent life-cycle cost estimate under Department of Energy Order 413.3B (relating to program management and project management for the acquisition of capital assets), or a successor order, of each capital asset described in subsection (b) is conducted before the asset achieves critical decision 2 in the acquisition process.

(b) Capital Assets Described.— A capital asset described in this subsection is an atomic energy defense capital asset—

(1) the total project cost of which exceeds $100,000,000; and

(2) the purpose of which is to perform a limited-life, single-purpose mission.

(c) Independent Defined.— For purposes of subsection (a), the term “independent”, with respect to a life-cycle cost estimate of a capital asset, means that the life-cycle cost estimate is prepared by an organization independent of the project sponsor, using the same detailed technical and procurement information as the sponsor, to determine if the life-cycle cost estimate of the sponsor is accurate and reasonable.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1434](/us/stat/139/1434).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2754 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2754), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
