---
title: "§ 7552. Motor vehicle compliance program fees"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7552"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7552"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title II, § 217, as added [Pub. L. 101–549, title II, § 225](/us/pl/101/549/tII/s225), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2504](/us/stat/104/2504).)"
---
# § 7552. Motor vehicle compliance program fees

##### § 7552. Motor vehicle compliance program fees

(a) Fee collection Consistent with [section 9701 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s9701), the Administrator may promulgate (and from time to time revise) regulations establishing fees to recover all reasonable costs to the Administrator associated with—

The Administrator may establish for all foreign and domestic manufacturers a fee schedule based on such factors as the Administrator finds appropriate and equitable and nondiscriminatory, including the number of vehicles or engines produced under a certificate of conformity. In the case of heavy-duty engine and vehicle manufacturers, such fees shall not exceed a reasonable amount to recover an appropriate portion of such reasonable costs.

(1) new vehicle or engine certification under [section 7525(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7525/a) or part C,

(2) new vehicle or engine compliance monitoring and testing under [section 7525(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7525/b) or part C, and

(3) in-use vehicle or engine compliance monitoring and testing under [section 7541(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7541/c) or part C.

(b) Special Treasury fund Any fees collected under this section shall be deposited in a special fund in the United States Treasury for licensing and other services which thereafter shall be available for appropriation, to remain available until expended, to carry out the Agency’s activities for which the fees were collected.

(c) Limitation on fund use Moneys in the special fund referred to in subsection (b) shall not be used until after the first fiscal year commencing after the first July 1 when fees are paid into the fund.

(d) Administrator’s testing authority Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit the Administrator’s authority to require manufacturer or confirmatory testing as provided in this part.

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title II, § 217, as added [Pub. L. 101–549, title II, § 225](/us/pl/101/549/tII/s225), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2504](/us/stat/104/2504).)*
