---
title: "§ 1546a. Expedited procedures for certain joint resolutions and bills"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1546a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1546a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–164, title X, § 1013](/us/pl/98/164/tX/s1013), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/97/1062).)"
---
# § 1546a. Expedited procedures for certain joint resolutions and bills

##### § 1546a. Expedited procedures for certain joint resolutions and bills

Any joint resolution or bill introduced in either House which requires the removal of United States Armed Forces engaged in hostilities outside the territory of the United States, its possessions and territories, without a declaration of war or specific statutory authorization shall be considered in accordance with the procedures of section 601(b) of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976, except that any such resolution or bill shall be amendable. If such a joint resolution or bill should be vetoed by the President, the time for debate in consideration of the veto message on such measure shall be limited to twenty hours in the Senate and in the House shall be determined in accordance with the Rules of the House.

*([Pub. L. 98–164, title X, § 1013](/us/pl/98/164/tX/s1013), Nov. 22, 1983, [97 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/97/1062).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 601(b) of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976, referred to in text, is [section 601(b) of Pub. L. 94–329](/us/pl/94/329/s601/b), title VI, June 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 765](/us/stat/90/765), which was not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985, and not as part of the War Powers Resolution which comprises this chapter.
