---
title: "§ 176. Removal from office"
identifier: "USC-T28-S176"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section176"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 105(a)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s105/a), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 28](/us/stat/96/28); amended [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/a/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516).)"
---
# § 176. Removal from office

##### § 176. Removal from office

(a) Removal of a judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims during the term for which he is appointed shall be only for incompetency, misconduct, neglect of duty, engaging in the practice of law, or physical or mental disability. Removal shall be by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, but removal may not occur unless a majority of all the judges of such court of appeals concur in the order of removal.

(b) Before any order of removal may be entered, a full specification of the charges shall be furnished to the judge involved, and such judge shall be accorded an opportunity to be heard on the charges.

(c) Any cause for removal of any judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims coming to the knowledge of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts shall be reported by him to the chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, and a copy of the report shall at the same time be transmitted to the judge.

*(Added [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 105(a)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s105/a), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 28](/us/stat/96/28); amended [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/a/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—Subsecs. (a), (c). [Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) substituted “United States Court of Federal Claims” for “United States Claims Court”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) effective Oct. 29, 1992, see [section 911 of Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572/s911), set out as a note under [section 171 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s171).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1982, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164/s402), set out as an Effective Date of 1982 Amendment note under [section 171 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s171).
