---
title: "§ 7930. Sense of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7930"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7930"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8549A](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8549A), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8041](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8041), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2121](/us/stat/129/2121).)"
---
# § 7930. Sense of Congress

##### § 7930. Sense of Congress

(a) Findings The Congress finds as follows:

(1) This chapter prohibits the Federal Government from mandating, directing, or controlling a State, local educational agency, or school’s curriculum, program of instruction, or allocation of State and local resources, and from mandating a State or any subdivision thereof to spend any funds or incur any costs not paid for under this chapter.

(2) This chapter prohibits the Federal Government from funding the development, pilot testing, field testing, implementation, administration, or distribution of any federally sponsored national test in reading, mathematics, or any other subject, unless specifically and explicitly authorized by law.

(b) Sense of Congress It is the sense of the Congress that States and local educational agencies retain the rights and responsibilities of determining educational curriculum, programs of instruction, and assessments for elementary and secondary education.

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8549A](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8549A), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8041](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8041), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2121](/us/stat/129/2121).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
