---
title: "§ 8754a. Strategy and grant program to promote internet freedom in Iran"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8754a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8754a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI, § 5124](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLI/s5124), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2431](/us/stat/138/2431).)"
---
# § 8754a. Strategy and grant program to promote internet freedom in Iran

##### § 8754a. Strategy and grant program to promote internet freedom in Iran

(a) Strategy

(1) In general Not later than 90 days after December 23, 2024, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall develop a strategy to support and enhance access to information by civil society in Iran.

(2) Elements The strategy required in subparagraph (A) 11 So in original. Probably should be “paragraph (1)”. shall include the following elements:

(A) An evaluation of the use of virtual private networks by civil society in Iran.

(B) An assessment of the level of internet access for Iranians who do not use virtual private networks, including levels of reliable connectivity, bandwidth, and coverage, as well as censorship, surveillance, and other limitations on internet access.

(C) A strategy to increase the accessibility of virtual private networks in Iran.

(D) An assessment of alternatives to virtual private networks that are capable of circumventing restrictions on open internet access imposed by the Government of Iran.

(E) An assessment of how companies providing Iranian civilians with technology and other tools to overcome technical and political obstacles are able to access the open internet.

(F) An assessment of the ability of the Government of Iran to cut off all access to the internet in Iran.

(G) A strategy to circumvent internet blackouts for Iranian civil society.

(3) Initial update Not later than 120 days after December 23, 2024, the Secretary, in consultation with the heads of other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate an updated version of the strategy required in paragraph (1).

(4) Periodic review and updates The Secretary, in consultation with the heads of other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall—

(A) not less frequently than twice each year, review the strategy required in paragraph (1); and

(B) if the results of such review indicate that modifications to such strategy are required to more effectively promote internet freedom and access to information for civil society in Iran, submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate an updated version of such strategy.

(5) Form Each strategy required to be submitted under this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

(b) Grant program and contract authority

(1) In general The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development and the President of the Open Technology Fund, as appropriate, may award grants and enter into contracts to private organizations to support and develop programs in Iran that promote or expand—

(A) an open, interoperable, reliable, and secure internet; and

(B) the online exercise of internationally recognized human rights and fundamental freedoms of civil society in Iran.

(2) Program goals The goal of each program developed with a grant funds awarded pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be to—

(A) support unrestricted access to the internet in Iran;

(B) increase the availability of internet freedom tools to overcome technical and political obstacles to internet access in Iran;

(C) increase the distribution of such technologies and tools throughout Iran;

(D) conduct research on repressive tactics that undermine internet freedom in Iran;

(E) ensure that information regarding digital safety is available to civil society in Iran; or

(F) engage private industry, including e-commerce firms and social networking companies, regarding the importance of preserving unrestricted internet access in Iran.

(3) Grant award requirements The Secretary shall award grants authorized in paragraph (1) to recipients through an evidence-based process.

(4) Security audits The Secretary shall conduct a comprehensive security audit of each new technology developed using grant funds distributed pursuant to paragraph (1) to ensure that each such technology is secure and has not been compromised in a manner detrimental to—

(A) the interests of the United States; or

(B) an individual or organization benefitting from a program supported by such funding.

(5) Authorization of appropriations

(A) In general There is authorized to be appropriated for the Open Technology Fund established under [section 6208a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6208a) $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 and 2026 to carry out the grant program authorized under this subsection.

(B) Availability Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization in subparagraph (A) are authorized remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI, § 5124](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLI/s5124), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2431](/us/stat/138/2431).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Servicemember Quality of Life Improvement and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, and not as part of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 which comprises this chapter.
