---
title: "§ 1459. Expenditures of department"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1459"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1459"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 444; [June 10, 1921, ch. 18](/us/act/1921-06-10/ch18), title III, § 304, [42 Stat. 24](/us/stat/42/24); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)"
---
# § 1459. Expenditures of department

##### § 1459. Expenditures of department

The Secretary of the Interior shall sign all requisitions for the advance or payment of money, out of the Treasury, upon estimates or accounts for expenditures upon business assigned by law to his department; subject, however, to adjustment and control by the Government Accountability Office.

*(R.S. § 444; [June 10, 1921, ch. 18](/us/act/1921-06-10/ch18), title III, § 304, [42 Stat. 24](/us/stat/42/24); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 444 derived from [act Mar. 3, 1849, ch. 108, § 2](/us/act/1849-03-03/ch108/s2), [9 Stat. 395](/us/stat/9/395).

Section was formerly classified to [section 487 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s487) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Government Accountability Office” substituted in text for “General Accounting Office” pursuant to [section 8(b) of Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), set out as a note under [section 702 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s702), Money and Finance, which redesignated the General Accounting Office and any references thereto as the Government Accountability Office. Previously, “General Accounting Office” substituted in text for “proper accounting officers of Department of the Treasury” pursuant to act June 10, 1921, which transferred all powers and duties of Comptroller, six auditors, and certain other employees of the Treasury to General Accounting Office. See section 701 et seq. of Title 31.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).
