---
title: "§ 5725. Transportation expenses; employees assigned to danger areas"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5725"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5725"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 503](/us/stat/80/503); [Pub. L. 105–264, § 6(6)](/us/pl/105/264/s6/6), Oct. 19, 1998, [112 Stat. 2356](/us/stat/112/2356); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tXI/s1106), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1973](/us/stat/126/1973); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title VI, § 626(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tVI/s626/b/2), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2628](/us/stat/136/2628).)"
---
# § 5725. Transportation expenses; employees assigned to danger areas

##### § 5725. Transportation expenses; employees assigned to danger areas

(a) When an employee of the Government is on duty, or is transferred or assigned to duty, at a place designated by the head of the agency concerned as inside a zone—

because of military or other reasons which create imminent danger to life or property, or adverse living conditions which seriously affect the health, safety, or accommodations of the immediate family, Government funds may be used to transport his immediate family and household goods, personal effects, and family household pets, under regulations prescribed by the head of the agency, to a location designated by the employee. When circumstances prevent the employee from designating a location, or it is administratively impracticable to determine his intent, the immediate family may designate the location. When the designated location is inside a zone to which movement of families is prohibited under this subsection, the employee or his immediate family may designate an alternate location.

(1) from which his immediate family should be evacuated; or

(2) to which they are not permitted to accompany him;

(b) When the employee is assigned to a duty station from which his immediate family is not excluded by the restrictions in subsection (a) of this section, Government funds may be used to transport his immediate family and household goods and personal effects from the designated or alternate location to the duty station.

(c)

(1) The expenses authorized under subsection (a) shall, with respect to the transport of family household pets, include the expenses for the shipment of and the payment of any quarantine costs for such pets.

(2) Any payment or reimbursement under this section in connection with the transport of family household pets shall be subject to terms and conditions which—

(A) the head of the agency shall by regulation prescribe; and

(B) shall, to the extent practicable, be the same as would apply under regulations prescribed under subsections (c) and (d) of [section 453 of title 37](/us/usc/t37/s453) in connection with the transport of family household pets of members of the uniformed services, including regulations relating to the types, size, and number of pets for which such payment or reimbursement may be provided.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 503](/us/stat/80/503); [Pub. L. 105–264, § 6(6)](/us/pl/105/264/s6/6), Oct. 19, 1998, [112 Stat. 2356](/us/stat/112/2356); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tXI/s1106), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1973](/us/stat/126/1973); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title VI, § 626(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tVI/s626/b/2), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2628](/us/stat/136/2628).)*

The word “employee” is substituted for “civilian officers and employees” in view of the definition of “employee” in sections 5721 and 2105.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 73b–1(d). | Sept. 23, 1950, ch. 1010, § 1(c), 64 Stat. 985. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) substituted “subsections (c) and (d) of section 453” for “section 476(b)(1)(H)(iii)”.

2013—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1106(1)](/us/pl/112/239/s1106/1), substituted “, personal effects, and family household pets,” for “and personal effects,” in concluding provisions.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1106(2)](/us/pl/112/239/s1106/2), added subsec. (c).

1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–264](/us/pl/105/264) substituted “Government” for “United States” in introductory provisions.
