---
title: "§ 183. Conciliation of labor disputes in the health care industry"
identifier: "USC-T29-S183"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section183"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([June 23, 1947, ch. 120](/us/act/1947-06-23/ch120), title II, § 213, as added [Pub. L. 93–360, § 2](/us/pl/93/360/s2), July 26, 1974, [88 Stat. 396](/us/stat/88/396).)"
---
# § 183. Conciliation of labor disputes in the health care industry

##### § 183. Conciliation of labor disputes in the health care industry

(a) Establishment of Boards of Inquiry; membership If, in the opinion of the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, a threatened or actual strike or lockout affecting a health care institution will, if permitted to occur or to continue, substantially interrupt the delivery of health care in the locality concerned, the Director may further assist in the resolution of the impasse by establishing within 30 days after the notice to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service under clause (A) of the last sentence of [section 158(d) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s158/d) (which is required by clause (3) of such [section 158(d) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s158/d)), or within 10 days after the notice under clause (B), an impartial Board of Inquiry to investigate the issues involved in the dispute and to make a written report thereon to the parties within fifteen (15) days after the establishment of such a Board. The written report shall contain the findings of fact together with the Board’s recommendations for settling the dispute, with the objective of achieving a prompt, peaceful and just settlement of the dispute. Each such Board shall be composed of such number of individuals as the Director may deem desirable. No member appointed under this section shall have any interest or involvement in the health care institutions or the employee organizations involved in the dispute.

(b) Compensation of members of Boards of Inquiry

(1) Members of any board established under this section who are otherwise employed by the Federal Government shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in carrying out its duties under this section.

(2) Members of any board established under this section who are not subject to paragraph (1) shall receive compensation at a rate prescribed by the Director but not to exceed the daily rate prescribed for GS–18 of the General Schedule under [section 5332 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), including travel for each day they are engaged in the performance of their duties under this section and shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in carrying out their duties under this section.

(c) Maintenance of status quo After the establishment of a board under subsection (a) of this section and for 15 days after any such board has issued its report, no change in the status quo in effect prior to the expiration of the contract in the case of negotiations for a contract renewal, or in effect prior to the time of the impasse in the case of an initial bargaining negotiation, except by agreement, shall be made by the parties to the controversy.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

*([June 23, 1947, ch. 120](/us/act/1947-06-23/ch120), title II, § 213, as added [Pub. L. 93–360, § 2](/us/pl/93/360/s2), July 26, 1974, [88 Stat. 396](/us/stat/88/396).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on thirtieth day after July 26, 1974, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 93–360](/us/pl/93/360/s4), set out as a note under [section 169 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s169).

#### References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay Rates

References in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of [Pub. L. 101–509](/us/pl/101/509), set out in a note under [section 5376 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376).
