---
title: "§ 260. Provision of telemessaging service"
identifier: "USC-T47-S260"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section260"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 260, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 79](/us/stat/110/79).)"
---
# § 260. Provision of telemessaging service

##### § 260. Provision of telemessaging service

(a) Nondiscrimination safeguards Any local exchange carrier subject to the requirements of [section 251(c) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s251/c) that provides telemessaging service—

(1) shall not subsidize its telemessaging service directly or indirectly from its telephone exchange service or its exchange access; and

(2) shall not prefer or discriminate in favor of its telemessaging service operations in its provision of telecommunications services.

(b) Expedited consideration of complaints The Commission shall establish procedures for the receipt and review of complaints concerning violations of subsection (a) or the regulations thereunder that result in material financial harm to a provider of telemessaging service. Such procedures shall ensure that the Commission will make a final determination with respect to any such complaint within 120 days after receipt of the complaint. If the complaint contains an appropriate showing that the alleged violation occurred, the Commission shall, within 60 days after receipt of the complaint, order the local exchange carrier and any affiliates to cease engaging in such violation pending such final determination.

(c) “Telemessaging service” defined As used in this section, the term “telemessaging service” means voice mail and voice storage and retrieval services, any live operator services used to record, transcribe, or relay messages (other than telecommunications relay services), and any ancillary services offered in combination with these services.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 260, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tI/s101/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 79](/us/stat/110/79).)*
