---
title: "§ 16280. Advanced Nuclear Energy Licensing Cost-Share Grant Program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16280"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16280"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–248, § 3](/us/pl/115/248/s3), Sept. 28, 2018, [132 Stat. 3160](/us/stat/132/3160).)"
---
# § 16280. Advanced Nuclear Energy Licensing Cost-Share Grant Program

##### § 16280. Advanced Nuclear Energy Licensing Cost-Share Grant Program

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Commission The term “Commission” means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

(2) Program The term “program” means the Advanced Nuclear Energy Cost-Share Grant Program established under subsection (b).

(3) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Energy.

(b) Establishment The Secretary shall establish a grant program, to be known as the “Advanced Nuclear Energy Cost-Share Grant Program”, under which the Secretary shall make cost-share grants to applicants for the purpose of funding a portion of the Commission fees of the applicant for pre-application review activities and application review activities.

(c) Requirement The Secretary shall seek out technology diversity in making grants under the program.

(d) Cost-share amount The Secretary shall determine the cost-share amount for each grant under the program in accordance with [section 16352 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16352).

(e) Use of funds A recipient of a grant under the program may use the grant funds to cover Commission fees, including those fees associated with—

(1) developing a licensing project plan;

(2) obtaining a statement of licensing feasibility;

(3) reviewing topical reports; and

(4) other—

(A) pre-application review activities;

(B) application review activities; and

(C) interactions with the Commission.

*([Pub. L. 115–248, § 3](/us/pl/115/248/s3), Sept. 28, 2018, [132 Stat. 3160](/us/stat/132/3160).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Nuclear Energy Innovation Capabilities Act of 2017, and not as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which comprises this chapter.
