---
title: "§ 1693n. Criminal liability"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1693n"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1693n"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–321, title IX, § 917](/us/pl/90/321/tIX/s917), formerly § 916, as added [Pub. L. 95–630, title XX, § 2001](/us/pl/95/630/tXX/s2001), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3738](/us/stat/92/3738); renumbered § 917, [Pub. L. 111–24, title IV, § 401(1)](/us/pl/111/24/tIV/s401/1), May 22, 2009, [123 Stat. 1751](/us/stat/123/1751).)"
---
# § 1693n. Criminal liability

##### § 1693n. Criminal liability

(a) Violations respecting giving of false or inaccurate information, failure to provide information, and failure to comply with provisions of this subchapter Whoever knowingly and willfully—

shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.

(1) gives false or inaccurate information or fails to provide information which he is required to disclose by this subchapter or any regulation issued thereunder; or

(2) otherwise fails to comply with any provision of this subchapter;

(b) Violations affecting interstate or foreign commerce Whoever—

shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.

(1) knowingly, in a transaction affecting interstate or foreign commerce, uses or attempts or conspires to use any counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained debit instrument to obtain money, goods, services, or anything else of value which within any one-year period has a value aggregating $1,000 or more; or

(2) with unlawful or fraudulent intent, transports or attempts or conspires to transport in interstate or foreign commerce a counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained debit instrument knowing the same to be counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained; or

(3) with unlawful or fraudulent intent, uses any instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce to sell or transport a counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained debit instrument knowing the same to be counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained; or

(4) knowingly receives, conceals, uses, or transports money, goods, services, or anything else of value (except tickets for interstate or foreign transportation) which (A) within any one-year period has a value aggregating $1,000 or more, (B) has moved in or is part of, or which constitutes interstate or foreign commerce, and (C) has been obtained with a counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained debit instrument; or

(5) knowingly receives, conceals, uses, sells, or transports in interstate or foreign commerce one or more tickets for interstate or foreign transportation, which (A) within any one-year period have a value aggregating $500 or more, and (B) have been purchased or obtained with one or more counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained debit instrument; or

(6) in a transaction affecting interstate or foreign commerce, furnishes money, property, services, or anything else of value, which within any one-year period has a value aggregating $1,000 or more, through the use of any counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained debit instrument knowing the same to be counterfeit, fictitious, altered, forged, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained—

(c) “Debit instrument” defined As used in this section, the term “debit instrument” means a card, code, or other device, other than a check, draft, or similar paper instrument, by the use of which a person may initiate an electronic fund transfer.

*([Pub. L. 90–321, title IX, § 917](/us/pl/90/321/tIX/s917), formerly § 916, as added [Pub. L. 95–630, title XX, § 2001](/us/pl/95/630/tXX/s2001), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3738](/us/stat/92/3738); renumbered § 917, [Pub. L. 111–24, title IV, § 401(1)](/us/pl/111/24/tIV/s401/1), May 22, 2009, [123 Stat. 1751](/us/stat/123/1751).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 917 of Pub. L. 90–321](/us/pl/90/321/s917) was renumbered section 918 and is classified to section 1693*o* of this title.
