---
title: "§ 3323. Administration"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–252, title V, § 5003(a)(1)](/us/pl/110/252/tV/s5003/a/1), June 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2374](/us/stat/122/2374); amended [Pub. L. 111–377, title I, § 112(c)](/us/pl/111/377/tI/s112/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4122](/us/stat/124/4122).)"
---
# § 3323. Administration

##### § 3323. Administration

(a) In General.—

(1) In general.— Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the provisions specified in sections 3034(a)(1) and 3680(c) shall apply to the provision of educational assistance under this chapter.

(2) Special rule.— In applying the provisions referred to in paragraph (1) to an individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter for purposes of this section, the reference in such provisions to the term “eligible veteran” shall be deemed to refer to an individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter.

(3) Rule for applying section 3474.— In applying section 3474 to an individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter for purposes of this section, the reference in such section 3474 to the term “educational assistance allowance” shall be deemed to refer to educational assistance payable under section 3313.

(4) Rule for applying section 3482.— In applying section 3482(g) to an individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter for purposes of this section—

(A) the first reference to the term “educational assistance allowance” in such section 3482(g) shall be deemed to refer to educational assistance payable under section 3313; and

(B) the first sentence of paragraph (1) of such section 3482(g) shall be applied as if such sentence ended with “equipment”.

(b) Information on Benefits.—

(1) Timing for providing.— The Secretary shall provide the information described in paragraph (2) to each member of the Armed Forces at such times as the Secretary and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly prescribe in regulations.

(2) Description of information.— The information described in this paragraph is information on benefits, limitations, procedures, eligibility requirements (including time-in-service requirements), and other important aspects of educational assistance under this chapter, including application forms for such assistance under section 5102.

(3) To whom provided.— The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall furnish the information and forms described in paragraph (2), and other educational materials on educational assistance under this chapter, to educational institutions, training establishments, military education personnel, and such other persons and entities as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(c) Regulations.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the administration of this chapter.

(2) Uniformity.— Any regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of this chapter shall apply uniformly across the Armed Forces.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–252, title V, § 5003(a)(1)](/us/pl/110/252/tV/s5003/a/1), June 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2374](/us/stat/122/2374); amended [Pub. L. 111–377, title I, § 112(c)](/us/pl/111/377/tI/s112/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4122](/us/stat/124/4122).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2011—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–377](/us/pl/111/377) substituted “sections 3034(a)(1) and 3680(c)” for “section 3034(a)(1)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Aug. 1, 2009, see [section 5003(d) of Pub. L. 110–252](/us/pl/110/252/s5003/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under [section 16163 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s16163), Armed Forces.
