---
title: "§ 1730C. Licensure of health care professionals providing treatment via telemedicine"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1730C"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1730C"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title I, § 151(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tI/s151/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1430](/us/stat/132/1430); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCI, § 9101](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCI/s9101), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4780](/us/stat/134/4780); [Pub. L. 118–42, div. G, title II, § 209(a)(4)(B)](/us/pl/118/42/dG/tII/s209/a/4/B), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 441](/us/stat/138/441).)"
---
# § 1730C. Licensure of health care professionals providing treatment via telemedicine

##### § 1730C. Licensure of health care professionals providing treatment via telemedicine

(a) In General.— Notwithstanding any provision of law regarding the licensure of health care professionals, a covered health care professional may practice the health care profession of the health care professional at any location in any State or any of the Freely Associated States (as defined in [section 1724(f) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1724/f)), regardless of where the covered health care professional or the patient is located, if the covered health care professional is using telemedicine to provide treatment to an individual under this chapter.

(b) Covered Health Care Professionals.— For purposes of this section, a covered health care professional is any of the following individuals:

(1) A health care professional who—

(A) is an employee of the Department appointed under section 7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or 7408 of this title or under title 5;

(B) is authorized by the Secretary to provide health care under this chapter;

(C) is required to adhere to all standards for quality relating to the provision of health care in accordance with applicable policies of the Department; and

(D)

(i) has an active, current, full, and unrestricted license, registration, or certification in a State to practice the health care profession of the health care professional; or

(ii) with respect to a health care profession listed under [section 7402(b) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7402/b), has the qualifications for such profession as set forth by the Secretary.

(2) A postgraduate health care employee who—

(A) is appointed under section 7401(1), 7401(3), or 7405 of this title or title 5 for any category of personnel described in paragraph (1) or (3) of [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7401);

(B) must obtain an active, current, full, and unrestricted license, registration, or certification or meet qualification standards set forth by the Secretary within a specified time frame; and

(C) is under the clinical supervision of a health care professional described in paragraph (1); or

(3) A health professions trainee who—

(A) is appointed under section 7405 or 7406 of this title; and

(B) is under the clinical supervision of a health care professional described in paragraph (1).

(c) Property of Federal Government.— Subsection (a) shall apply to a covered health care professional providing treatment to a patient regardless of whether the covered health care professional or patient is located in a facility owned by the Federal Government during such treatment.

(d) Relation to State Law.—

(1) The provisions of this section shall supersede any provisions of the law of any State to the extent that such provision of State law are inconsistent with this section.

(2) No State shall deny or revoke the license, registration, or certification of a covered health care professional who otherwise meets the qualifications of the State for holding the license, registration, or certification on the basis that the covered health care professional has engaged or intends to engage in activity covered by subsection (a).

(e) Rule of Construction.— Nothing in this section may be construed to remove, limit, or otherwise affect any obligation of a covered health care professional under the Controlled Substances Act ([21 U.S.C. 801](/us/usc/t21/s801) et seq.).

(f) State Defined.— In this section, the term “State” means a State, as defined in [section 101(20) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s101/20), or a political subdivision of a State.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title I, § 151(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tI/s151/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1430](/us/stat/132/1430); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCI, § 9101](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCI/s9101), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4780](/us/stat/134/4780); [Pub. L. 118–42, div. G, title II, § 209(a)(4)(B)](/us/pl/118/42/dG/tII/s209/a/4/B), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 441](/us/stat/138/441).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Controlled Substances Act, referred to in subsec. (e), is title II of [Pub. L. 91–513](/us/pl/91/513), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1242](/us/stat/84/1242), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 801 et seq.) of chapter 13 of Title 21, Food and Drugs. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 801 of Title 21](/us/usc/t21/s801) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–42](/us/pl/118/42) substituted “any State or any of the Freely Associated States (as defined in [section 1724(f) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1724/f))” for “any State”.

2021—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) related to who were considered covered health care professionals.
