---
title: "§ 1315. Advisory Council on Coal Research"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1315"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1315"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–87, title VIII, § 805](/us/pl/95/87/tVIII/s805), Aug. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 528](/us/stat/91/528); [Pub. L. 95–617, title VI, § 604(c)](/us/pl/95/617/tVI/s604/c), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3167](/us/stat/92/3167); [Pub. L. 102–285, § 10(b)](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), May 18, 1992, [106 Stat. 172](/us/stat/106/172).)"
---
# § 1315. Advisory Council on Coal Research

##### § 1315. Advisory Council on Coal Research

(a) Establishment; members There is established an Advisory Council on Coal Research which shall be composed of—

(1) the Secretary of Energy, who shall be Chairman;

(2) the Director of the United States Bureau of Mines of the Department of the Interior;

(3) the President of the National Academy of Sciences;

(4) the President of the National Academy of Engineering;

(5) the Director of the United States Geological Survey; and

(6) six members appointed by the Secretary of Energy from among individuals who, by virtue of experience or training, are knowledgeable in the field of coal research and mining, and who are representatives of institutions of higher education, industrial users of coal and coal-derived fuels, the coal industry, mine workers, nonindustrial consumer groups, and institutions concerned with the preservation of the environment.

(b) Furnishing advice to Secretary of Energy The Advisory Council shall advise the Secretary of Energy with respect to the general administration of this subchapter, and furnish such additional advice as he may request.

(c) Annual report to President; transmittal to Congress The Advisory Council shall make an annual report of its findings and recommendations (including recommendations for changes in the provisions of this subchapter) to the President not later than December 31 of each calendar year. The President shall transmit each such report to the Congress.

(d) Compensation and travel expenses

(1) Members of the Council who are not regular officers or employees of the United States Government shall, while serving on business of the Council, be entitled to receive compensation at rates fixed by the Secretary of Energy but not exceeding the daily rate prescribed for GS-18 of the General Schedule under [section 5332 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332) and while so serving away from their homes or regular places of business, they may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by [section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703) for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.

(2) Members of the Council who are officers or employees of the Government shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them in carrying out their duties on the Council.

(e) Alternate members Whenever a member of the Council appointed under clauses (1) through (5) is unable to attend a meeting, that member shall appoint an appropriate alternate to represent him for that meeting.

*([Pub. L. 95–87, title VIII, § 805](/us/pl/95/87/tVIII/s805), Aug. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 528](/us/stat/91/528); [Pub. L. 95–617, title VI, § 604(c)](/us/pl/95/617/tVI/s604/c), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3167](/us/stat/92/3167); [Pub. L. 102–285, § 10(b)](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), May 18, 1992, [106 Stat. 172](/us/stat/106/172).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–617](/us/pl/95/617) substituted “Secretary of Energy” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“United States Bureau of Mines” substituted for “Bureau of Mines” in subsec. (a)(2) pursuant to [section 10(b) of Pub. L. 102–285](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1). For provisions relating to closure and transfer of functions of the United States Bureau of Mines, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1).

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (c) of this section relating to requirement that the President transmit each annual report to Congress, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and page 153 of House Document No. 103–7.

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.

#### References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay Rates

References in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of [Pub. L. 101–509](/us/pl/101/509), set out in a note under [section 5376 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376).
