---
title: "§ 285e–4. Awards for leadership and excellence in Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285e–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285e–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 445B, formerly [Pub. L. 99–660, title IX, § 931](/us/pl/99/660/tIX/s931), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3807](/us/stat/100/3807); renumbered § 445B of act July 1, 1944, and amended [Pub. L. 100–607, title I, § 142(a)](/us/pl/100/607/tI/s142/a), (d)(1), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3057](/us/stat/102/3057).)"
---
# § 285e–4. Awards for leadership and excellence in Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias

##### § 285e–4. Awards for leadership and excellence in Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias

(a) Senior researchers in biomedical research The Director of the Institute shall make awards to senior researchers who have made distinguished achievements in biomedical research in areas relating to Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. Awards under this section shall be used by the recipients to support research in areas relating to such disease and dementias, and may be used by the recipients to train junior researchers who demonstrate exceptional promise to conduct research in such areas.

(b) Eligible centers The Director of the Institute may make awards under this section to researchers at centers supported under [section 285e–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285e–2) and to researchers at other public and nonprofit private entities.

(c) Required recommendation The Director of the Institute shall make awards under this section only to researchers who have been recommended for such awards by the National Advisory Council on Aging.

(d) Selection procedures The Director of the Institute shall establish procedures for the selection of the recipients of awards under this section.

(e) Term of award; renewal Awards under this section shall be made for a one-year period, and may be renewed for not more than six additional consecutive one-year periods.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 445B, formerly [Pub. L. 99–660, title IX, § 931](/us/pl/99/660/tIX/s931), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3807](/us/stat/100/3807); renumbered § 445B of act July 1, 1944, and amended [Pub. L. 100–607, title I, § 142(a)](/us/pl/100/607/tI/s142/a), (d)(1), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3057](/us/stat/102/3057).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 11231 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11231) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 100–607](/us/pl/100/607).

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–607, § 142(a)](/us/pl/100/607/s142/a), renumbered [section 11231 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11231) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 100–607, § 142(d)(1)(A)](/us/pl/100/607/s142/d/1/A), substituted “the Institute” for “the National Institute on Aging”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–607, § 142(d)(1)(B)](/us/pl/100/607/s142/d/1/B), substituted “the Institute” for “the National Institute on Aging” and made technical amendment to reference to [section 285e–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285e–2) to correct reference to corresponding provision of original act.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 100–607, § 142(d)(1)(C)](/us/pl/100/607/s142/d/1/C), substituted “the Institute” for “the National Institute on Aging”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Availability of Appropriations

[Pub. L. 100–607, title I, § 142(b)](/us/pl/100/607/tI/s142/b), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3057](/us/stat/102/3057), provided that: “With respect to amounts made available in appropriation Acts for the purpose of carrying out the programs transferred by subsection (a) to the Public Health Service Act [sections 285e–4 to 285e–8 of this title], such subsection may not be construed to affect the availability of such funds for such purpose.”
