---
title: "§ 5319. Availability of reports"
identifier: "USC-T31-S5319"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section5319"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 999](/us/stat/96/999); [Pub. L. 102–550, title XV, § 1506](/us/pl/102/550/tXV/s1506), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4055](/us/stat/106/4055); [Pub. L. 107–56, title III, § 358(c)](/us/pl/107/56/tIII/s358/c), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 326](/us/stat/115/326); [Pub. L. 112–74, div. C, title I, § 119](/us/pl/112/74/dC/tI/s119), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 891](/us/stat/125/891); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. F, title LXI, § 6109(b)](/us/pl/116/283/dF/tL"
---
# § 5319. Availability of reports

##### § 5319. Availability of reports

The Secretary of the Treasury shall make information in a report filed under this subchapter available to an agency, including any State financial institutions supervisory agency, United States intelligence agency or self-regulatory organization registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, upon request of the head of the agency or organization. The report shall be available for a purpose that is consistent with this subchapter. The Secretary may only require reports on the use of such information by any State financial institutions supervisory agency for other than supervisory purposes or by United States intelligence agencies. However, a report and records of reports are exempt from search and disclosure under [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552), and may not be disclosed under any State, local, tribal, or territorial “freedom of information”, “open government”, or similar law.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 999](/us/stat/96/999); [Pub. L. 102–550, title XV, § 1506](/us/pl/102/550/tXV/s1506), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4055](/us/stat/106/4055); [Pub. L. 107–56, title III, § 358(c)](/us/pl/107/56/tIII/s358/c), Oct. 26, 2001, [115 Stat. 326](/us/stat/115/326); [Pub. L. 112–74, div. C, title I, § 119](/us/pl/112/74/dC/tI/s119), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 891](/us/stat/125/891); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. F, title LXI, § 6109(b)](/us/pl/116/283/dF/tLXI/s6109/b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4561](/us/stat/134/4561).)*

The words “upon such conditions and pursuant to such procedures as he may by regulation prescribe” and “set forth” in 31:1061, and the word “specifically” in 31:1052(j), are omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 5319 | 31:1052(j). | Oct. 26, 1970, Pub. L. 91–508, §§ 203(j), 212, 84 Stat. 1120, 1121. |
|  | 31:1061. |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) inserted “search and” before “disclosure”.

2011—[Pub. L. 112–74](/us/pl/112/74) inserted “, and may not be disclosed under any State, local, tribal, or territorial ‘freedom of information’, ‘open government’, or similar law” after “[section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552)”.

2001—[Pub. L. 107–56](/us/pl/107/56) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary of the Treasury shall make information in a report filed under section 5313, 5314, or 5316 of this title available to an agency, including any State financial institutions supervisory agency, on request of the head of the agency. The report shall be available for a purpose consistent with those sections or a regulation prescribed under those sections. The Secretary may only require reports on the use of such information by any State financial institutions supervisory agency for other than supervisory purposes. However, a report and records of reports are exempt from disclosure under [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552).”

1992—[Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) substituted “to an agency, including any State financial institutions supervisory agency,” for “to an agency” in first sentence and inserted after second sentence “The Secretary may only require reports on the use of such information by any State financial institutions supervisory agency for other than supervisory purposes.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2001 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–56](/us/pl/107/56) applicable with respect to reports filed or records maintained on, before, or after Oct. 26, 2001, see [section 358(h) of Pub. L. 107–56](/us/pl/107/56/s358/h), set out as a note under [section 1829b of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1829b), Banks and Banking.
