---
title: "§ 3704. Administrative services and support"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3704"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3704"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–244, § 5](/us/pl/98/244/s5), Mar. 26, 1984, [98 Stat. 109](/us/stat/98/109); [Pub. L. 100–240, § 3](/us/pl/100/240/s3), Jan. 11, 1988, [101 Stat. 1786](/us/stat/101/1786); [Pub. L. 100–653, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/100/653/tIX/s903), Nov. 14, 1988, [102 Stat. 3834](/us/stat/102/3834).)"
---
# § 3704. Administrative services and support

##### § 3704. Administrative services and support

(a) Provision of services The Secretary may provide personnel, facilities, and other administrative services to the Foundation, including reimbursement of expenses under [section 3702 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3702), not to exceed then current Federal Government per diem rates, for a period of up to five years from March 26, 1984.

(b) Reimbursement The Foundation may reimburse the Secretary for any administrative service provided under subsection (a). The Secretary shall deposit any reimbursement received under this subsection into the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations then current and chargeable for the cost of providing such services. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to continue to provide facilities, and necessary support services for such facilities, to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation after March 26, 1989, on a space available, reimbursable cost basis.

*([Pub. L. 98–244, § 5](/us/pl/98/244/s5), Mar. 26, 1984, [98 Stat. 109](/us/stat/98/109); [Pub. L. 100–240, § 3](/us/pl/100/240/s3), Jan. 11, 1988, [101 Stat. 1786](/us/stat/101/1786); [Pub. L. 100–653, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/100/653/tIX/s903), Nov. 14, 1988, [102 Stat. 3834](/us/stat/102/3834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–653](/us/pl/100/653) inserted provision at end authorizing Secretary of the Interior to continue to provide facilities and necessary support services to National Fish and Wildlife Foundation after Mar. 26, 1989, on space available, reimbursable cost basis.

[Pub. L. 100–240](/us/pl/100/240) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and struck out “, and may accept reimbursement therefor, to be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations then current and chargeable for the cost of providing such services” after “March 26, 1984”, and added subsec. (b).
