---
title: "§ 1715. Operation of Office; House privileges; compensation, allowances, and benefits; privileges and immunities; voting in committee"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1715"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1715"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–271, § 5](/us/pl/92/271/s5), Apr. 10, 1972, [86 Stat. 119](/us/stat/86/119); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 224(4)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s224/4), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1752](/us/stat/110/1752).)"
---
# § 1715. Operation of Office; House privileges; compensation, allowances, and benefits; privileges and immunities; voting in committee

##### § 1715. Operation of Office; House privileges; compensation, allowances, and benefits; privileges and immunities; voting in committee

The Delegate from Guam and the Delegate from the Virgin Islands shall have such privileges in the House of Representatives as may be afforded him under the Rules of the House of Representatives. Until the Rules of the House of Representatives are amended to provide otherwise, the Delegate from each territory shall receive the same compensation, allowances, and benefits as a Member of the House of Representatives, and shall be entitled to whatever privileges and immunities are, or hereinafter may be, granted to the Resident Commissioner for Puerto Rico: *Provided*, That the right to vote in committee shall be as provided by the Rules of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 92–271, § 5](/us/pl/92/271/s5), Apr. 10, 1972, [86 Stat. 119](/us/stat/86/119); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 224(4)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s224/4), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1752](/us/stat/110/1752).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) struck out last two provisos which read as follows: “*Provided further*, That the clerk hire allowance of each Delegate shall be a single per annum gross rate that is 60 per centum of the clerk hire allowance of a Member: *Provided further*, That the transportation expenses of each Delegate that are subject to reimbursement under [section 43b of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s43b) shall not exceed the cost of four round trips each year.”
