---
title: "§ 192. Sale by agents of cattle or horses not required"
identifier: "USC-T25-S192"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section192"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 2127; [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 192. Sale by agents of cattle or horses not required

##### § 192. Sale by agents of cattle or horses not required

The agent of each tribe of Indians, lawfully residing in the Indian country, is authorized to sell for the benefit of such Indians any cattle, horses, or other livestock belonging to the Indians, and not required for their use and subsistence, under such regulations as shall be established by the Secretary of the Interior. But no such sale shall be made so as to interfere with the execution of any order lawfully issued by the Secretary of the Army, connected with the movement or subsistence of troops.

*(R.S. § 2127; [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 2127 derived from [act Mar. 3, 1865, ch. 127, § 9](/us/act/1865-03-03/ch127/s9), [13 Stat. 563](/us/stat/13/563).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Indian Agents

The services of Indian agents have been dispensed with. See note set out under [section 64 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s64).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
