---
title: "§ 1905. Regulations and administrative provisions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1905"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1905"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–183, title VIII, § 805](/us/pl/102/183/tVIII/s805), Dec. 4, 1991, [105 Stat. 1275](/us/stat/105/1275).)"
---
# § 1905. Regulations and administrative provisions

##### § 1905. Regulations and administrative provisions

(a) Regulations The Secretary may prescribe regulations to carry out the program required by this chapter. Before prescribing any such regulations, the Secretary shall submit a copy of the proposed regulations to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives. Such proposed regulations may not take effect until 30 days after the date on which they are submitted to those committees.

(b) Acceptance and use of gifts In order to conduct the program required by this chapter, the Secretary may—

(1) receive money and other property donated, bequeathed, or devised, without condition or restriction other than that it be used for the purpose of conducting the program required by this chapter; and

(2) may use, sell, or otherwise dispose of such property for that purpose.

(c) Voluntary services In order to conduct the program required by this chapter, the Secretary may accept and use the services of voluntary and noncompensated personnel.

(d) Necessary expenditures Expenditures necessary to conduct the program required by this chapter shall be paid from the Fund, subject to [section 1904(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1904/b).

*([Pub. L. 102–183, title VIII, § 805](/us/pl/102/183/tVIII/s805), Dec. 4, 1991, [105 Stat. 1275](/us/stat/105/1275).)*
