---
title: "§ 10723. Authorized programs"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10723"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10723"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3033](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3033), as added [Pub. L. 115–76, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/76/s3/a), Nov. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/131/1248).)"
---
# § 10723. Authorized programs

##### § 10723. Authorized programs

(1) Programs to provide a nationwide support system for State and local criminal justice agencies.

(2) Programs to assist State and local criminal justice agencies to develop, establish, and maintain intelligence-focused policing strategies and related information sharing.

(3) Programs to provide training and investigative support services to State and local criminal justice agencies to provide such agencies with skills and resources needed to investigate and prosecute such criminal activities and related criminal activities.

(4) Programs to provide research support, to establish partnerships, and to provide other resources to aid State and local criminal justice agencies to prevent, investigate, and prosecute such criminal activities and related problems.

(5) Programs to provide information and research to the general public to facilitate the prevention of such criminal activities.

(6) Programs to establish or support national training and research centers regionally to provide training and research services for State and local criminal justice agencies.

(7) Programs to provide training and oversight to State and local criminal justice agencies to develop and comply with applicable privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties related policies, procedures, rules, laws, and guidelines.

(8) Any other programs specified by the Attorney General as furthering the purposes of this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3033](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3033), as added [Pub. L. 115–76, § 3(a)](/us/pl/115/76/s3/a), Nov. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/131/1248).)*
