---
title: "§ 4301. Findings and purpose"
identifier: "USC-T12-S4301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section4301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–242, title II, § 262](/us/pl/102/242/tII/s262), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2334](/us/stat/105/2334).)"
---
# § 4301. Findings and purpose

##### § 4301. Findings and purpose

(a) Findings The Congress hereby finds that economic stability would be enhanced, competition between depository institutions would be improved, and the ability of the consumer to make informed decisions regarding deposit accounts, and to verify accounts, would be strengthened if there was uniformity in the disclosure of terms and conditions on which interest is paid and fees are assessed in connection with such accounts.

(b) Purpose It is the purpose of this chapter to require the clear and uniform disclosure of—

so that consumers can make a meaningful comparison between the competing claims of depository institutions with regard to deposit accounts.

(1) the rates of interest which are payable on deposit accounts by depository institutions; and

(2) the fees that are assessable against deposit accounts,

*([Pub. L. 102–242, title II, § 262](/us/pl/102/242/tII/s262), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2334](/us/stat/105/2334).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 102–242, title II, § 261](/us/pl/102/242/tII/s261), Dec. 19, 1991, [105 Stat. 2334](/us/stat/105/2334), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle F (§§ 261–274) of title II of [Pub. L. 102–242](/us/pl/102/242), enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Truth in Savings Act’.”

#### Separability

If any provision of [Pub. L. 102–242](/us/pl/102/242) or any application of any provision thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of [Pub. L. 102–242](/us/pl/102/242) and the application of any remaining provision of such Act to any other person or circumstance not to be affected by such holding, see [section 481 of Pub. L. 102–242](/us/pl/102/242/s481), set out as a note under [section 1811 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1811).
