---
title: "§ 11294. Grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11294"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11294"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/93/415/tIV/s405), formerly § 406, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 660](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s660), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2128](/us/stat/98/2128); renumbered § 405 and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII](/us/pl/100/690/tVII), §§ 7287, 7290(a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4460](/us/stat/102/4460), 4461; [Pub. L. 101–204, title X, § 1004(3)](/us/pl/101/204/tX/s1004/3), Dec. 7, 1989, [103 Stat. 1828](/us/stat/103/1828); [Pub. L. 106–71, § 2(d)](/us/pl/1"
---
# § 11294. Grants

##### § 11294. Grants

(a) Authority of Administrator; description of research, demonstration projects, and service programs The Administrator is authorized to make grants to and enter into contracts with the Center and with public agencies or nonprofit private organizations, or combinations thereof, for research, demonstration projects, or service programs designed—

(1) to educate parents, children, schools, school leaders, teachers, State and local educational agencies, homeless shelters and service providers, and community agencies and organizations in ways to prevent the abduction and sexual exploitation of children;

(2) to provide information to assist in the locating and return of missing children;

(3) to aid communities and schools in the collection of materials which would be useful to parents in assisting others in the identification of missing children;

(4) to increase knowledge of and develop effective treatment pertaining to the psychological consequences, on both parents and children, of—

(A) the abduction of a child, both during the period of disappearance and after the child is recovered; and

(B) the sexual exploitation of a missing child;

(5) to collect detailed data from selected States or localities on the actual investigative practices utilized by law enforcement agencies in missing children’s cases;

(6) to address the particular needs of missing children by minimizing the negative impact of judicial and law enforcement procedures on children who are victims of abuse or sexual exploitation and by promoting the active participation of children and their families in cases involving abuse or sexual exploitation of children;

(7) to address the needs of missing children and their families following the recovery of such children;

(8) to reduce the likelihood that individuals under 18 years of age will be removed from the control of such individuals’ parents without such parents’ consent; and

(9) to establish or operate statewide clearinghouses to assist in locating and recovering missing children.

(b) Priorities of grant applicants In considering grant applications under this subchapter, the Administrator shall give priority to applicants who—

The Administrator shall give first priority to applicants qualifying under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1).

(1) have demonstrated or demonstrate ability in—

(A) locating missing children or locating and reuniting missing children with their parents;

(B) providing other services to missing children or their families; or

(C) conducting research relating to missing children; and

(2) with respect to subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1), substantially utilize volunteer assistance.

(c) Non-Federal fund expenditures requisite for receipt of Federal assistance In order to receive assistance under this subchapter for a fiscal year, applicants shall give assurance that they will expend, to the greatest extent practicable, for such fiscal year an amount of funds (without regard to any funds received under any Federal law) that is not less than the amount of funds they received in the preceding fiscal year from State, local, and private sources.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/93/415/tIV/s405), formerly § 406, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 660](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s660), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2128](/us/stat/98/2128); renumbered § 405 and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII](/us/pl/100/690/tVII), §§ 7287, 7290(a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4460](/us/stat/102/4460), 4461; [Pub. L. 101–204, title X, § 1004(3)](/us/pl/101/204/tX/s1004/3), Dec. 7, 1989, [103 Stat. 1828](/us/stat/103/1828); [Pub. L. 106–71, § 2(d)](/us/pl/106/71/s2/d), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1035](/us/stat/113/1035); [Pub. L. 113–38, § 2(c)](/us/pl/113/38/s2/c), Sept. 30, 2013, [127 Stat. 528](/us/stat/127/528); [Pub. L. 115–267, § 2(d)](/us/pl/115/267/s2/d), Oct. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 3759](/us/stat/132/3759); [Pub. L. 115–393, title II, § 202(d)](/us/pl/115/393/tII/s202/d), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5270](/us/stat/132/5270).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5775 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5775), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 405 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s405) was classified to [section 5774 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5774), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7286](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7286), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4460](/us/stat/102/4460).

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a)(7). [Pub. L. 115–267, § 2(d)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/267/s2/d/1/A), and [Pub. L. 115–393, § 202(d)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/393/s202/d/1/A), amended par. (7) identically, striking out “(as defined in [section 11292(1)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11292/1/A))” after “missing children”.

Subsec. (a)(8). [Pub. L. 115–267, § 2(d)(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/267/s2/d/1/B), and [Pub. L. 115–393, § 202(d)(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/393/s202/d/1/B), amended par. (8) identically, substituting “parents” for “legal custodians” and “parents’ ” for “custodians’ ”.

Subsec. (b)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 115–267, § 2(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/267/s2/d/2), and [Pub. L. 115–393, § 202(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/393/s202/d/2), amended subpar. (A) identically, substituting “parents” for “legal custodians”.

2013—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 113–38, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/38/s2/c/1), inserted “schools, school leaders, teachers, State and local educational agencies, homeless shelters and service providers,” after “children,”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 113–38, § 2(c)(2)](/us/pl/113/38/s2/c/2), inserted “and schools” after “communities”.

1999—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–71](/us/pl/106/71) inserted “the Center and with” before “public agencies” in introductory provisions.

1989—Subsec. (a)(9). [Pub. L. 101–204](/us/pl/101/204) substituted “clearinghouses” for “clearinghouse”.

1988—Subsec. (a)(7) to (9). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 7287](/us/pl/100/690/s7287), added pars. (7) to (9).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–267](/us/pl/115/267) effective Oct. 11, 2018, and applicable to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2018, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 115–267](/us/pl/115/267/s4), set out as a note under [section 11291 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11291).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) effective Oct. 1, 1988, see [section 7296(a) of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s7296/a), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).
