---
title: "§ 4573. Commission recommendations and report"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4573"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4573"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title III, § 323](/us/pl/116/113/tIII/s323), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 57](/us/stat/134/57).)"
---
# § 4573. Commission recommendations and report

##### § 4573. Commission recommendations and report

(a) In general If the Commission makes an affirmative determination under [section 4572 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4572), the Commission shall recommend the action that is necessary to address the material harm or threat of material harm found.

(b) Limitation Only those members of the Commission who agreed to the affirmative determination under [section 4572 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4572) are eligible to vote on the recommendation required to be made under subsection (a).

(c) Report Not later than the date that is 60 days after the date on which the determination is made under [section 4572 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4572), the Commission shall submit to the President a report that includes—

(1) the determination and an explanation of the basis for the determination;

(2) if the determination is affirmative, recommendations for action and an explanation of the basis for the recommendation; and

(3) any dissenting or separate views by members of the Commission regarding the determination.

(d) Public notice Upon submitting a report to the President under subsection (c), the Commission shall—

(1) promptly make public the report (with the exception of information which the Commission determines to be confidential business information); and

(2) publish a summary of the report in the Federal Register.

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title III, § 323](/us/pl/116/113/tIII/s323), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 57](/us/stat/134/57).)*
