---
title: "§ 698m–1. Big Cypress National Preserve Addition"
identifier: "USC-T16-S698m–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section698m–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–440, § 9](/us/pl/93/440/s9), as added [Pub. L. 100–301, § 3(a)](/us/pl/100/301/s3/a), Apr. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 444](/us/stat/102/444).)"
---
# § 698m–1. Big Cypress National Preserve Addition

##### § 698m–1. Big Cypress National Preserve Addition

(a) Establishment In order to—

the Big Cypress National Preserve Addition is established.

(1) achieve the purposes of [section 698f of this title](/us/usc/t16/s698f);

(2) complete the preserve in conjunction with the planned construction of Interstate Highway 75; and

(3) insure appropriately managed use and access to the Big Cypress Watershed in the State of Florida,

(b) Location; boundaries; publication in Federal Register The Big Cypress National Preserve Addition (referred to in sections 698f to 698m–4 of this title as the “Addition”) shall comprise approximately 146,000 acres as generally depicted on the map entitled Big Cypress National Preserve Addition, dated April, 1987, and numbered 176–91000C, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C., and shall be filed with appropriate offices of Collier County in the State of Florida. The Secretary shall, as soon as practicable, publish a detailed description of the boundaries of the Addition in the Federal Register.

(c) Designation; management The area within the boundaries depicted on the map referred to in subsection (b) shall be known as the “Big Cypress National Preserve Addition” and shall be managed in accordance with [section 698i of this title](/us/usc/t16/s698i).

(d) Completion of land acquisition; time For purposes of administering the Addition and notwithstanding [section 698g(c) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s698g/c), it is the express intent of the Congress that the Secretary should substantially complete the land acquisition program contemplated with respect to the Addition in not more than five years after April 29, 1988.

*([Pub. L. 93–440, § 9](/us/pl/93/440/s9), as added [Pub. L. 100–301, § 3(a)](/us/pl/100/301/s3/a), Apr. 29, 1988, [102 Stat. 444](/us/stat/102/444).)*
