---
title: "§ 5353. Fair trade in financial services"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5353"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5353"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–418, title III, § 3603](/us/pl/100/418/tIII/s3603), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1387](/us/stat/102/1387).)"
---
# § 5353. Fair trade in financial services

##### § 5353. Fair trade in financial services

(a) Discussions When advantageous the President or his designee shall conduct discussions with the governments of countries that are major financial centers, aimed at:

(1) ensuring that United States banking organizations and securities companies have access to foreign markets and receive national treatment in those markets;

(2) reducing or eliminating barriers to, and other distortions of, international trade in financial services;

(3) achieving reasonable comparability in the types of financial services permissible for financial service companies; and

(4) developing uniform supervisory standards for banking organizations and securities companies, including uniform capital standards.

(b) Consultation before discussions Before entering into those discussions, the President or his designee shall consult with the committees of jurisdiction in the Senate and the House of Representatives.

(c) Recommendations After completing those discussions and after consultation with the committees of jurisdiction, the President shall transmit to the Congress any recommendations that have emerged from those discussions. Any recommendations for changes in United States financial laws or practices shall be accompanied by a description of the changes in foreign financial laws or practices that would accompany action by the Congress, and by an explanation of the benefits that would accrue to the United States from adoption of the recommendations.

(d) Construction of section Nothing in this section may be construed as prior approval of any legislation which may be necessary to implement any recommendations resulting from discussions under this section.

*([Pub. L. 100–418, title III, § 3603](/us/pl/100/418/tIII/s3603), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1387](/us/stat/102/1387).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under this section delegated to Secretary of the Treasury by section 1 of Ex. Ord. No. 12781, Nov. 20, 1991, 56 F.R. 59203, set out as a note under [section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), The President.
