---
title: "§ 14104. Nondisclosure of board proceedings"
identifier: "USC-T10-S14104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section14104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2925](/us/stat/108/2925); amended [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, § 547(b)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tV/s547/b), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2216](/us/stat/120/2216); [Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title V, § 503(c)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tV/s503/c), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/124/4208).)"
---
# § 14104. Nondisclosure of board proceedings

##### § 14104. Nondisclosure of board proceedings

(a) Prohibition on Disclosure.— The proceedings of a selection board convened under section 14101 or 14502 of this title may not be disclosed to any person not a member of the board, except as authorized or required to process the report of the board. This prohibition is a statutory exemption from disclosure, as described in [section 552(b)(3) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/b/3).

(b) Prohibited Uses of Board Discussions, Deliberations, Notes, and Records.— The discussions and deliberations of a selection board described in subsection (a) and any written or documentary record of such discussions and deliberations—

(1) are immune from legal process;

(2) may not be admitted as evidence; and

(3) may not be used for any purpose in any action, suit, or judicial or administrative proceeding without the consent of the Secretary of the military department concerned.

(c) Applicability.— This section applies to all selection boards convened under section 14101 or 14502 of this title, regardless of the date on which the board was convened.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2925](/us/stat/108/2925); amended [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, § 547(b)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tV/s547/b), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2216](/us/stat/120/2216); [Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title V, § 503(c)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tV/s503/c), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/124/4208).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 5898(e) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s5898/e), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–337, § 1629(b)(2)](/us/pl/103/337/s1629/b/2).

#### Amendments

2011—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–383, § 503(c)(1)](/us/pl/111/383/s503/c/1), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The proceedings of a selection board convened under [section 14101 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14101) may not be disclosed to any person not a member of the board.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–383, § 503(c)(2)](/us/pl/111/383/s503/c/2), substituted “Notes, and Records” for “and Records” in heading.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–383, § 503(c)(3)](/us/pl/111/383/s503/c/3), added subsec. (c).

2006—[Pub. L. 109–364](/us/pl/109/364) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Except as otherwise authorized or required by law, the proceedings of a selection board convened under [section 14101 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14101) may not be disclosed to any person not a member of the board.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

This section, as amended by [Pub. L. 109–364](/us/pl/109/364), applicable with respect to the proceedings of all selection boards convened under [section 14101 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s14101), including selection boards convened before Oct. 17, 2006, see [section 547(c) of Pub. L. 109–364](/us/pl/109/364/s547/c), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 613a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s613a).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 1691(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691/b/1), set out as a note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).
