---
title: "§ 3028. General Counsel"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3028"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3028"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 103C, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1011(a)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1011/a), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3658](/us/stat/118/3658).)"
---
# § 3028. General Counsel

##### § 3028. General Counsel

(a) General Counsel There is a General Counsel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

(b) Prohibition on dual service as General Counsel of another agency The individual serving in the position of General Counsel may not, while so serving, also serve as the General Counsel of any other department, agency, or element of the United States Government.

(c) Scope of position The General Counsel is the chief legal officer of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

(d) Functions The General Counsel shall perform such functions as the Director of National Intelligence may prescribe.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 103C, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1011(a)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1011/a), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3658](/us/stat/118/3658).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403–3c of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403–3c) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For Determination by President that section take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Section effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
