---
title: "§ 2291o. Fentanyl reporting and authorities"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2291o"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2291o"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXVIII, § 7807](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXVIII/s7807), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2560](/us/stat/138/2560).)"
---
# § 2291o. Fentanyl reporting and authorities

##### § 2291o. Fentanyl reporting and authorities

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Appropriate committees of Congress The term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;

(D) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;

(E) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;

(F) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;

(G) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives;

(H) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives;

(I) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and

(J) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

(2) Beneficiary countries

(A) In general Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term “beneficiary countries” means Colombia, Mexico, and Peru.

(B) Updates The Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Defense, may add or remove one or more countries from the list of beneficiary countries under subparagraph (A) after providing written notification of such changes to the appropriate committees of Congress.

(3) Listed chemical The term “listed chemical” has the meaning given such term in [section 802 of title 21](/us/usc/t21/s802).

(b) Establishment The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Attorney General, may carry out the “Precursor Chemical Destruction Initiative” in beneficiary countries to achieve the purposes described in subsection (c).

(c) Purposes The purposes of this section are—

(1) to improve and increase rates of seizure and destruction of listed chemicals in beneficiary countries;

(2) to alleviate the backlog of seized listed chemicals and dispose of the hazardous waste generated by illicit drug trafficking in beneficiary countries in an environmentally safe and effective manner;

(3) to ensure that seized listed chemicals are not reintroduced into the illicit drug production stream within beneficiary countries;

(4) to free up storage space for future listed chemical seizures within beneficiary countries; and

(5) to reduce the negative environmental impact of listed chemicals.

(d) Implementation plan Not later than 90 days after December 23, 2024, the Secretary, in coordination with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Defense, shall submit an implementation plan to the appropriate committees of Congress that includes a timeline and stated objectives for actions to be taken in beneficiary countries in support of the Precursor Chemical Destruction Initiative.

(e) Elements The implementation plan required under subsection (d) shall include—

(1) a multi-year strategy with a timeline, overview of objectives, budgetary projections, and anticipated outcomes for the region and for each beneficiary country;

(2) specific, measurable benchmarks to track the progress of the Precursor Chemical Destruction Initiative towards accomplishing the outcomes referred to in paragraph (1);

(3) a plan for the delineation of the roles to be carried out by the Department of State, the Department of Justice, the Department of Defense, and any other Federal department or agency in carrying out the Precursor Chemical Destruction Initiative; and

(4) a plan for addressing security and government corruption and providing updates to the appropriate committees of Congress on the results of such efforts.

(f) Annual progress update Not later than one year after the submission of the implementation plan pursuant to subsection (d), and annually thereafter, the Secretary, in coordination with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a written description of the results achieved by the Precursor Chemical Destruction Initiative, including—

(1) the implementation of the strategy and plans described in subsections (d) and (e);

(2) compliance with, and progress related to, meeting the benchmarks referred to in subsection (e)(2); and

(3) the type and quantity of listed chemicals destroyed by each beneficiary country.

(g) Funding The Secretary shall use amounts otherwise appropriated for International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement programs managed by the Department to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 118–159, div. G, title LXXVIII, § 7807](/us/pl/118/159/dG/tLXXVIII/s7807), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2560](/us/stat/138/2560).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, and also as part of the Servicemember Quality of Life Improvement and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary” and “Department” as used in this section, see [section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159/s7002), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
