---
title: "§ 2801. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T39-S2801"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section2801"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–62, § 7](/us/pl/103/62/s7), Aug. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 292](/us/stat/107/292).)"
---
# § 2801. Definitions

##### § 2801. Definitions

(1) “outcome measure” refers to an assessment of the results of a program activity compared to its intended purpose;

(2) “output measure” refers to the tabulation, calculation, or recording of activity or effort and can be expressed in a quantitative or qualitative manner;

(3) “performance goal” means a target level of performance expressed as a tangible, measurable objective, against which actual achievement shall be compared, including a goal expressed as a quantitative standard, value, or rate;

(4) “performance indicator” refers to a particular value or characteristic used to measure output or outcome;

(5) “program activity” means a specific activity related to the mission of the Postal Service; and

(6) “program evaluation” means an assessment, through objective measurement and systematic analysis, of the manner and extent to which Postal Service programs achieve intended objectives.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–62, § 7](/us/pl/103/62/s7), Aug. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 292](/us/stat/107/292).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction

No provision or amendment made by [Pub. L. 103–62](/us/pl/103/62) to be construed as creating any right, privilege, benefit, or entitlement for any person who is not an officer or employee of the United States acting in such capacity, and no person not an officer or employee of the United States acting in such capacity to have standing to file any civil action in any court of the United States to enforce any provision or amendment made by [Pub. L. 103–62](/us/pl/103/62), or to be construed as superseding any statutory requirement, see [section 10 of Pub. L. 103–62](/us/pl/103/62/s10), set out as a Construction of 1993 Amendment note under [section 1101 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1101), Money and Finance.
