---
title: "§ 10405. Guidelines"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10405"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10405"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1804](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1804), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12102(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12102/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1865](/us/stat/116/1865).)"
---
# § 10405. Guidelines

##### § 10405. Guidelines

(a) In general The Attorney General shall issue guidelines establishing procedures under which a State or specifically 11 So in original. Probably should be “specially”. qualified unit of local government that receives funds under [section 10404 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10404) is required to provide notice to the Attorney General regarding the proposed use of funds made available under this subchapter.

(b) Advisory board

(1) In general The guidelines referred to in subsection (a) shall include a requirement that such eligible State or unit of local government establish and convene an advisory board to recommend a coordinated enforcement plan for the use of such funds.

(2) Membership The board shall include representation from, if appropriate—

(A) the State or local police department;

(B) the local sheriff’s department;

(C) the State or local prosecutor’s office;

(D) the State or local juvenile court;

(E) the State or local probation office;

(F) the State or local educational agency;

(G) a State or local social service agency;

(H) a nonprofit, nongovernmental victim advocacy organization; and

(I) a nonprofit, religious, or community group.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1804](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1804), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12102(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12102/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1865](/us/stat/116/1865).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796ee–4 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796ee–4), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 1804 of title I of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1804), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20201(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20201/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1820](/us/stat/108/1820), and classified to former [section 3796ee–3 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796ee–3), The Public Health and Welfare, related to applications by local governments, prior to the general amendment of part R of title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) by [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273).
