---
title: "§ 2411. Limitation upon exercise of special authorities"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2411"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2411"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 652, as added [Pub. L. 91–652, § 8](/us/pl/91/652/s8), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1943](/us/stat/84/1943); amended [Pub. L. 92–226](/us/pl/92/226), pt. III, § 304(a)(1), Feb. 7, 1972, [86 Stat. 28](/us/stat/86/28); [Pub. L. 96–533, title I, § 117(b)](/us/pl/96/533/tI/s117/b), Dec. 16, 1980, [94 Stat. 3141](/us/stat/94/3141); [Pub. L. 99–83, title I, § 105(b)(2)](/us/pl/99/83/tI/s105/b/2), Aug. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 196](/us/stat/99/196); [Pub. L. 104–164, t"
---
# § 2411. Limitation upon exercise of special authorities

##### § 2411. Limitation upon exercise of special authorities

The President shall not exercise any special authority granted to him under section 2318(a), 2348a(c)(2), or 2360(a) of this title unless the President, before he intends to exercise any such authority, notifies the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate in writing of each such intended exercise, the section of this chapter under which such authority is to be exercised, and the justification for, and the extent of, the exercise of such authority.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 652, as added [Pub. L. 91–652, § 8](/us/pl/91/652/s8), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1943](/us/stat/84/1943); amended [Pub. L. 92–226](/us/pl/92/226), pt. III, § 304(a)(1), Feb. 7, 1972, [86 Stat. 28](/us/stat/86/28); [Pub. L. 96–533, title I, § 117(b)](/us/pl/96/533/tI/s117/b), Dec. 16, 1980, [94 Stat. 3141](/us/stat/94/3141); [Pub. L. 99–83, title I, § 105(b)(2)](/us/pl/99/83/tI/s105/b/2), Aug. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 196](/us/stat/99/196); [Pub. L. 104–164, title I, § 103(c)](/us/pl/104/164/tI/s103/c), July 21, 1996, [110 Stat. 1424](/us/stat/110/1424).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424), known as the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–164](/us/pl/104/164) substituted “before he intends” for “prior to the date he intends”.

1985—[Pub. L. 99–83](/us/pl/99/83) inserted reference to [section 2348a(c)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2348a/c/2).

1980—[Pub. L. 96–533](/us/pl/96/533) struck out reference to [section 2364(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2364/a).

1972—[Pub. L. 92–226](/us/pl/92/226) struck out provision which limited exercise of special authority for purpose of providing additional assistance to Cambodia and which required thirty days notice to congressional committee (ten days in emergencies requiring immediate assistance) of intention to exercise such authority.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–83](/us/pl/99/83) effective Oct. 1, 1985, see [section 1301 of Pub. L. 99–83](/us/pl/99/83/s1301), set out as a note under [section 2151–1 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151–1).

#### Funds Not To Be Used To Finance Introduction of United States Ground Combat Troops Into Cambodia or Provide Advisers for Security or Intelligence Forces in Cambodia; Assistance to Cambodia Not To Be Construed as Commitment by United States to Cambodia for Its Defense

[Pub. L. 91–652, § 7](/us/pl/91/652/s7), Jan. 5, 1971, [84 Stat. 1943](/us/stat/84/1943), as amended by [Pub. L. 92–226](/us/pl/92/226), pt. IV, § 408, Feb. 7, 1972, [86 Stat. 35](/us/stat/86/35), provided that: “(a) In line with the expressed intention of the President of the United States, none of the funds authorized or appropriated pursuant to this or any other Act may be used to finance the introduction of United States ground combat troops into Cambodia, or to provide United States advisers to or for military, paramilitary, police, or other security or intelligence forces in Cambodia. “(b) Military and economic assistance provided by the United States to Cambodia and authorized or appropriated pursuant to this or any other Act shall not be construed as a commitment by the United States to Cambodia for its defense.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
