---
title: "§ 2282a. Planning"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2282a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2282a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–114, title II, § 2033](/us/pl/110/114/tII/s2033), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1084](/us/stat/121/1084); [Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2103](/us/pl/113/121/tII/s2103), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1278](/us/stat/128/1278).)"
---
# § 2282a. Planning

##### § 2282a. Planning

(a) Omitted

(b) Planning process improvements The Chief of Engineers—

(1) shall adopt a risk analysis approach to project cost estimates for water resources projects; and

(2) not later than one year after November 8, 2007, shall—

(A) issue procedures for risk analysis for cost estimation for water resources projects; and

(B) submit to Congress a report that includes any recommended amendments to [section 2280 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2280).

(c) Benchmarks

(1) In general Not later than 12 months after November 8, 2007, the Chief of Engineers shall establish benchmarks for determining the length of time it should take to conduct a feasibility study for a water resources project and its associated review process under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ([42 U.S.C. 4321](/us/usc/t42/s4321) et seq.). The Chief of Engineers shall use such benchmarks as a management tool to make the feasibility study process more efficient in all districts of the Corps of Engineers.

(2) Benchmark goals The Chief of Engineers shall establish, to the extent practicable, under paragraph (1) benchmark goals for completion of feasibility studies for water resources projects generally within 2 years. In the case of feasibility studies that the Chief of Engineers determines may require additional time based on the project type, size, cost, or complexity, the benchmark goal for completion shall be generally within 4 years.

(d) Calculation of benefits and costs for flood damage reduction projects A feasibility study for a project for flood damage reduction shall include, as part of the calculation of benefits and costs—

(1) a calculation of the residual risk of flooding following completion of the proposed project;

(2) a calculation of the residual risk of loss of human life and residual risk to human safety following completion of the proposed project;

(3) a calculation of any upstream or downstream impacts of the proposed project; and

(4) calculations to ensure that the benefits and costs associated with structural and nonstructural alternatives are evaluated in an equitable manner.

(e) Centers of specialized planning expertise

(1) Establishment The Secretary may establish centers of expertise to provide specialized planning expertise for water resources projects to be carried out by the Secretary in order to enhance and supplement the capabilities of the districts of the Corps of Engineers.

(2) Duties A center of expertise established under this subsection shall—

(A) provide technical and managerial assistance to district commanders of the Corps of Engineers for project planning, development, and implementation;

(B) provide agency peer reviews of new major scientific, engineering, or economic methods, models, or analyses that will be used to support decisions of the Secretary with respect to feasibility studies for water resources projects;

(C) provide support for independent peer review panels under [section 2343 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2343); and

(D) carry out such other duties as are prescribed by the Secretary.

(3) Deep draft navigation planning center of expertise

(A) In general The Secretary shall consolidate deep draft navigation expertise within the Corps of Engineers into a deep draft navigation planning center of expertise.

(B) List Not later than 60 days after the date of the consolidation required under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a list of the grade levels and expertise of each of the personnel assigned to the center described in subparagraph (A).

(f) Completion of Corps of Engineers reports

(1) Alternatives

(A) In general Feasibility and other studies and assessments for a water resources project shall include recommendations for alternatives—

(i) that, as determined in coordination with the non-Federal interest for the project, promote integrated water resources management; and

(ii) for which the non-Federal interest is willing to provide the non-Federal share for the studies or assessments.

(B) Constraints The alternatives contained in studies and assessments described in subparagraph (A) shall not be constrained by budgetary or other policy.

(C) Reports of Chief of Engineers The reports of the Chief of Engineers shall identify any recommendation that is not the best technical solution to water resource needs and problems and the reason for the deviation.

(2) Report completion The completion of a report of the Chief of Engineers for a water resources project—

(A) shall not be delayed while consideration is being given to potential changes in policy or priority for project consideration; and

(B) shall be submitted, on completion, to—

(i) the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate; and

(ii) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

(g) Completion review

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), not later than 120 days after the date of completion of a report of the Chief of Engineers that recommends to Congress a water resources project, the Secretary shall—

(A) review the report; and

(B) provide any recommendations of the Secretary regarding the water resources project to Congress.

(2) Prior reports Not later than 180 days after November 8, 2007, with respect to any report of the Chief of Engineers recommending a water resources project that is complete prior to November 8, 2007, the Secretary shall complete review of, and provide recommendations to Congress for, the report in accordance with paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 110–114, title II, § 2033](/us/pl/110/114/tII/s2033), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1084](/us/stat/121/1084); [Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2103](/us/pl/113/121/tII/s2103), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1278](/us/stat/128/1278).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is [Pub. L. 91–190](/us/pl/91/190), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 852](/us/stat/83/852), which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4321 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4321) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 2033 of Pub. L. 110–114](/us/pl/110/114/s2033). Subsec. (a) of [section 2033 of Pub. L. 110–114](/us/pl/110/114/s2033) amended [section 2281 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2281).

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2014—Subsec. (e)(3). [Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121) added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 110–114](/us/pl/110/114/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
