---
title: "§ 120101. Definition of National Heritage Area"
identifier: "USC-T54-S120101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section120101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–339, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/339/s2/a), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6158](/us/stat/136/6158).)"
---
# § 120101. Definition of National Heritage Area

##### § 120101. Definition of National Heritage Area

In this chapter, the term “National Heritage Area” means a component of the National Heritage Area System described in section 120102(b).

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–339, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/339/s2/a), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6158](/us/stat/136/6158).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Private Property and Regulatory Protections

[Pub. L. 117–339, § 2(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/339/s2/b/1), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6162](/us/stat/136/6162), provided that: “(1) In general.—Nothing in this section [enacting this chapter, amending provisions listed in a table of National Heritage and River Corridors, a table of National Heritage Areas, and a table of National Heritage Canalways set out under [section 120102 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s120102), and repealing provisions set out as a note under [section 120102 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s120102)] (including an amendment made by this section)—“(A) abridges any right of a public or private property owner, including the right to refrain from participating in any plan, project, program, or activity conducted within a National Heritage Area; “(B) requires any property owner to permit public access (including Federal, State, Tribal government, or local government access) to a property; “(C) modifies any provision of Federal, State, Tribal, or local law with respect to public access or use of private land; “(D)(i) alters any applicable land use regulation, land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, State, or local agency or Tribal government; or “(ii) conveys to any local coordinating entity any land use or other regulatory authority; “(E) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation of water or water rights; “(F) diminishes the authority of a State to manage fish and wildlife, including through the regulation of fishing and hunting within a National Heritage Area in the State; or “(G) creates or affects any liability—“(i) under any other provision of law; or “(ii) of any private property owner with respect to any person injured on private property.”
