---
title: "§ 521. Assistance to certain rehabilitation activities"
identifier: "USC-T38-S521"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section521"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s2/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 390](/us/stat/105/390).)"
---
# § 521. Assistance to certain rehabilitation activities

##### § 521. Assistance to certain rehabilitation activities

(a) The Secretary may assist any organization named in or approved under [section 5902 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5902) in providing recreational activities which would further the rehabilitation of disabled veterans. Such assistance may be provided only if—

(1) the activities are available to disabled veterans on a national basis; and

(2) a significant percentage of the individuals participating in the activities are eligible for rehabilitative services under chapter 17 of this title.

(b) The Secretary may accept from any appropriate source contributions of funds and of other assistance to support the Secretary’s provision of assistance for such activities.

(c)

(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may authorize the use, for purposes approved by the Secretary in connection with the activity involved, of the seal and other official symbols of the Department and the name “Department of Veterans Affairs” by—

(A) any organization which provides an activity described in subsection (a) with assistance from the Secretary; and

(B) any individual or entity from which the Secretary accepts a significant contribution under subsection (b) or an offer of such a contribution.

(2) The use of such seal or name of any official symbol of the Department in an advertisement may be authorized by the Secretary under this subsection only if—

(A) the Secretary has approved the advertisement; and

(B) the advertisement contains a clear statement that no product, project, or commercial line of endeavor referred to in the advertisement is endorsed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s2/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 390](/us/stat/105/390).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior section 521 was renumbered [section 1521 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1521).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 216 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s216) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s2/a).
