---
title: "§ 101512. Conveyance to States of roads leading to certain historical areas"
identifier: "USC-T54-S101512"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section101512"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3131](/us/stat/128/3131).)"
---
# § 101512. Conveyance to States of roads leading to certain historical areas

##### § 101512. Conveyance to States of roads leading to certain historical areas

(a) Definition.— In this section, the term “State” means a State, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.

(b) Authority of Secretary.— The Secretary may, subject to conditions as seem proper to the Secretary, convey by proper quitclaim deed to any State, county, municipality, or agency of a State, county, or municipality in which the road is located, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to any Federal Government owned or controlled road leading to any national cemetery, national military park, national historical park, national battlefield park, or national historic site administered by the Service.

(c) Notification by State, Agency, or Municipality.— Prior to the delivery of any conveyance of a road under this section, the State, county, or municipality to which the conveyance is to be made shall notify the Secretary in writing of its willingness to accept and maintain the road.

(d) Transfer of Jurisdiction.— On the execution and delivery of the conveyance of a road under this section, any jurisdiction previously ceded to the United States by a State over the road is retroceded and shall vest in the State in which the road is located.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3131](/us/stat/128/3131).)*

In subsection (a), the words “Hawaii, Alaska” are omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (d), the words “is retroceded” are substituted for “shall thereby cease and determine” for clarity. The word “thereafter” is omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 101512(a) | 16 U.S.C. 8f. | June 3, 1948, ch. 401, § 2, 62 Stat. 334; Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 852, § 5, 70 Stat. 908. |
| 101512(b) through (d) | 16 U.S.C. 8e. | June 3, 1948, ch. 401, § 1, 62 Stat. 334. |
