---
title: "§ 41508. Authority of the Secretary of Transportation to adjust divisions of joint prices for foreign air transportation"
identifier: "USC-T49-S41508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section41508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/108/1135).)"
---
# § 41508. Authority of the Secretary of Transportation to adjust divisions of joint prices for foreign air transportation

##### § 41508. Authority of the Secretary of Transportation to adjust divisions of joint prices for foreign air transportation

(a) General.— When the Secretary of Transportation decides that a division between air carriers, foreign air carriers, or both, of a joint price for foreign air transportation is or will be unreasonable or unreasonably discriminatory against any of those carriers, the Secretary shall prescribe a reasonable division of the joint price among those carriers. The Secretary may order the adjustment in the division of the joint price to be made retroactively to the date the complaint was filed, the date the order for an investigation was made, or a later date the Secretary decides is reasonable.

(b) When Secretary May Act.— The Secretary may act under this section on the Secretary’s own initiative or on a complaint filed with the Secretary and only after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/108/1135).)*

In subsection (a), the words “interstate air transportation of persons, air transportation of property within the State of Alaska, air transportation of property within the state of Hawaii, or overseas or” are omitted because 49:1551(a)(5)(D) provides that 49 App.:1482(h) applies only to foreign air transportation. The words “unreasonable or unreasonably discriminatory” are substituted for “unjust, unreasonable, inequitable, or unduly preferential or prejudicial” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. See the revision notes following 49:10101. The words “against any of those carriers” are substituted for “as between the air carriers or foreign air carriers parties thereto” to eliminate unnecessary words. The word “retroactively” is added for clarity.

In subsection (b), the words “an opportunity for a” are added for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 41508(a) | 49 App.:1482(h) (words after 3d comma). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, § 1002(h), 72 Stat. 790; Nov. 9, 1977, Pub. L. 95–163, § 18(c), 91 Stat. 1287. |
|  | 49 App.:1551(a)(5)(D) (related to 49 App.:1482(h)), (b)(1)(E). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 1601(a)(5)(D) (related to § 1002(h)), (b)(1)(E); added Oct. 4, 1984, Pub. L. 98–443, § 3(c), (e), 98 Stat. 1703, 1704. |
| 41508(b) | 49 App.:1482(h) (words before 3d comma). |  |
|  | 49 App.:1551(a)(5)(D) (related to 49 App.:1482(h)), (b)(1)(E). |  |
