---
title: "§ 740. Senate Service Department and House Publications Distribution Service; superintendents"
identifier: "USC-T44-S740"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section740"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1255](/us/stat/82/1255); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 223(6)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s223/6), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1751](/us/stat/110/1751).)"
---
# § 740. Senate Service Department and House Publications Distribution Service; superintendents

##### § 740. Senate Service Department and House Publications Distribution Service; superintendents

There shall be a Senate Service Department and a House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service in the charge of superintendents, appointed respectively by the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate and Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, together with the necessary assistants. Reports or documents to be distributed for the Senators and Representatives shall be folded and distributed from the Senate Service Department and House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service, unless otherwise ordered, and the respective superintendent shall notify each Senator and Representative in writing once every sixty days of the number and character of publications on hand and assigned to him for use and distribution.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1255](/us/stat/82/1255); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 223(6)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s223/6), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1751](/us/stat/110/1751).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 166 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 71](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s71), [28 Stat. 612](/us/stat/28/612); [July 2, 1954, ch. 455](/us/act/1954-07-02/ch455), title I, § 101, [68 Stat. 397](/us/stat/68/397)).

“House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service” is substituted for “House Folding Room” because of the change of name under authority of [Public Law 88–652](/us/pl/88/652).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) substituted “Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives” for “Doorkeeper of the House”.
