---
title: "§ 915. Art. 115. Communicating threats"
identifier: "USC-T10-S915"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section915"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 72](/us/stat/70A/72); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5427](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5427), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2948](/us/stat/130/2948).)"
---
# § 915. Art. 115. Communicating threats

##### § 915. Art. 115. Communicating threats

(a) Communicating Threats Generally.— Any person subject to this chapter who wrongfully communicates a threat to injure the person, property, or reputation of another shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(b) Communicating Threat to Use Explosive, etc.— Any person subject to this chapter who wrongfully communicates a threat to injure the person or property of another by use of (1) an explosive, (2) a weapon of mass destruction, (3) a biological or chemical agent, substance, or weapon, or (4) a hazardous material, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(c) Communicating False Threat Concerning Use of Explosive, etc.— Any person subject to this chapter who maliciously communicates a false threat concerning injury to the person or property of another by use of (1) an explosive, (2) a weapon of mass destruction, (3) a biological or chemical agent, substance, or weapon, or (4) a hazardous material, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct. As used in the preceding sentence, the term “false threat” means a threat that, at the time the threat is communicated, is known to be false by the person communicating the threat.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 72](/us/stat/70A/72); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5427](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5427), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2948](/us/stat/130/2948).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 915 | 50:709. | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 115), 64 Stat. 139. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

[Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to the offense of malingering. See [section 883 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s883).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).
