---
title: "§ 104. Purchase of articles manufactured at schools"
identifier: "USC-T25-S104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([May 11, 1880, ch. 85, § 1](/us/act/1880-05-11/ch85/s1), [21 Stat. 131](/us/stat/21/131).)"
---
# § 104. Purchase of articles manufactured at schools

##### § 104. Purchase of articles manufactured at schools

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized, whenever it can be done advantageously, to purchase for use in the Indian Service, from Indian manual and training schools, in the manner customary among individuals such articles as may be manufactured at such schools, and which are used in the Indian Service. Accounts of such transactions shall be kept in the Indian Bureau and in the training schools, and reports thereof made from time to time.

*([May 11, 1880, ch. 85, § 1](/us/act/1880-05-11/ch85/s1), [21 Stat. 131](/us/stat/21/131).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Jan. 1, 1947, Procurement Division of Department of the Treasury changed to Bureau of Federal Supply by regulation issued by Secretary of the Treasury under authority of [section 301 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s301), Government Organization and Employees. Functions of Bureau of Federal Supply transferred to Administrator of General Services by section 102 of [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title I](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288/tI), [63 Stat. 380](/us/stat/63/380), which was repealed and reenacted as [section 303(a) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303/a), Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304. [Section 303(a) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303/a) was amended generally by [Pub. L. 109–313, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/313/s2/a/1), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1734](/us/stat/120/1734), and, as so amended, no longer relates to the Bureau of Federal Supply. See Historical and Revision Notes and 2006 Amendment note under [section 303 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Function of determination of policies and methods of procurement, warehousing, and distribution of property, facilities, structures, improvements, machinery, equipment, stores, and supplies exercised by any agency transferred to a Procurement Division in Department of the Treasury by Ex. Ord. No. 6166, June 10, 1933, set out as a note under [section 901 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s901), Government Organization and Employees.
