---
title: "§ 5345. Annotated United States Code for Members of House of Representatives to be paid for from Members’ Representational Allowance"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5345"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5345"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–186, title I, § 107](/us/pl/104/186/tI/s107), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1723](/us/stat/110/1723).)"
---
# § 5345. Annotated United States Code for Members of House of Representatives to be paid for from Members’ Representational Allowance

##### § 5345. Annotated United States Code for Members of House of Representatives to be paid for from Members’ Representational Allowance

(a) In general The Clerk of the House of Representatives shall, at the request of a Member of the House of Representatives, furnish to the Member, for official use only, one set of a privately published annotated version of the United States Code, including supplements and pocket parts. The furnishing of a set of the United States Code under this section shall be in lieu of any distribution under [section 212 of title 1](/us/usc/t1/s212) and shall be paid for from the Members’ Representational Allowance.

(b) “Member of the House of Representatives” defined As used in this section, the term “Member of the House of Representatives” means a Representative in, or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

(c) Regulations The Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 104–186, title I, § 107](/us/pl/104/186/tI/s107), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1723](/us/stat/110/1723).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 54 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s54) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is comprised of [section 107 of Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186/s107). Subsec. (d) of [section 107 of Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186/s107) repealed former [section 54 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s54).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.
