---
title: "§ 3074. Commissary privileges"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3074"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3074"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 264](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s264), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/116/3093).)"
---
# § 3074. Commissary privileges

##### § 3074. Commissary privileges

(a) Extension of privilege Commissioned officers, ships’ officers, and members of crews of vessels of the Administration shall be permitted to purchase commissary and quartermaster supplies as far as available from the Armed Forces at the prices charged officers and enlisted members of the Armed Forces.

(b) Sales of rations, stores, uniforms, and related equipment The Secretary may purchase ration supplies for messes, stores, uniforms, accouterments, and related equipment for sale aboard ship and shore stations of the Administration to members of the uniformed services and to personnel assigned to such ships or shore stations. Sales shall be in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary, and proceeds therefrom shall, as far as is practicable, fully reimburse the appropriations charged without regard to fiscal year.

(c) Surviving spouses’ rights Rights extended to members of the uniformed services in this section are extended to their surviving spouses and to such others as are designated by the Secretary concerned.

*([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 264](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s264), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/116/3093).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 857–4 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s857–4) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 107–372](/us/pl/107/372).
