---
title: "§ 3205. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3205"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3205"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title X, § 1015, as added [Pub. L. 108–487, title VI, § 612(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/487/tVI/s612/a/2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3958](/us/stat/118/3958); amended [Pub. L. 114–95, title IX, § 9215(tt)](/us/pl/114/95/tIX/s9215/tt), (hhh), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2183](/us/stat/129/2183), 2187.)"
---
# § 3205. Definitions

##### § 3205. Definitions

(1) The term “covered element of the intelligence community” means an agency, office, bureau, or element referred to in subparagraphs (B) through (L) of [section 3003(4) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003/4).

(2) The term “educational institution” means—

(A) a local educational agency (as that term is defined in [section 7801 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s7801));

(B) an institution of higher education (as defined in [section 1002 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1002), other than institutions referred to in subsection (a)(1)(C) of such section); or

(C) any other nonprofit institution that provides instruction of foreign languages in languages that are critical to the capability of the intelligence community to carry out national security activities of the United States.

(3) The term “dedicated personnel” means employees of the intelligence community and private citizens (including former civilian employees of the Federal Government who have been voluntarily separated, and members of the United States Armed Forces who have been honorably discharged, honorably separated, or generally discharged under honorable circumstances and rehired on a voluntary basis specifically to perform the activities authorized under this part).

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title X, § 1015, as added [Pub. L. 108–487, title VI, § 612(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/487/tVI/s612/a/2), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3958](/us/stat/118/3958); amended [Pub. L. 114–95, title IX, § 9215(tt)](/us/pl/114/95/tIX/s9215/tt), (hhh), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2183](/us/stat/129/2183), 2187.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 441j–4 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s441j–4) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2015—Par. (2)(A). [Pub. L. 114–95, § 9215(tt)](/us/pl/114/95/s9215/tt), (hhh), made similar amendments, resulting in the substitution of “[section 7801 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s7801))” for “[section 7801(26) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s7801/26))”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95) effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as a note under [section 6301 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s6301), Education.
