---
title: "§ 1519. Lethal binary chemical munitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1519"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1519"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–106, title VIII, § 818](/us/pl/94/106/tVIII/s818), Oct. 7, 1975, [89 Stat. 544](/us/stat/89/544).)"
---
# § 1519. Lethal binary chemical munitions

##### § 1519. Lethal binary chemical munitions

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this or any other Act shall be used for the purpose of production of lethal binary chemical munitions unless the President certifies to Congress that the production of such munitions is essential to the national interest and submits a full report thereon to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives as far in advance of the production of such munitions as is practicable.

(b) For purposes of this section the term “lethal binary chemical munitions” means (1) any toxic chemical (solid, liquid, or gas) which, through its chemical properties, is intended to be used to produce injury or death to human beings, and (2) any unique device, instrument, apparatus, or contrivance, including any components or accessories thereof, intended to be used to disperse or otherwise disseminate any such toxic chemical.

*([Pub. L. 94–106, title VIII, § 818](/us/pl/94/106/tVIII/s818), Oct. 7, 1975, [89 Stat. 544](/us/stat/89/544).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 94–106](/us/pl/94/106), Oct. 7, 1975, [89 Stat. 531](/us/stat/89/531), known as the Department of Defense Appropriation Authorization Act, 1976. Provisions authorizing the appropriation of funds are not classified to the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of [Pub. L. 91–121, title IV, § 409](/us/pl/91/121/tIV/s409), Nov. 19, 1969, [83 Stat. 209](/us/stat/83/209), which comprises this chapter.
