---
title: "§ 15823. Low income community energy efficiency pilot program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15823"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15823"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 126](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s126), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 618](/us/stat/119/618).)"
---
# § 15823. Low income community energy efficiency pilot program

##### § 15823. Low income community energy efficiency pilot program

(a) Grants The Secretary is authorized to make grants to units of local government, private, non-profit community development organizations, and Indian tribe economic development entities to improve energy efficiency; identify and develop alternative, renewable, and distributed energy supplies; and increase energy conservation in low income rural and urban communities.

(b) Purpose of grants The Secretary may make grants on a competitive basis for—

(1) investments that develop alternative, renewable, and distributed energy supplies;

(2) energy efficiency projects and energy conservation programs;

(3) studies and other activities that improve energy efficiency in low income rural and urban communities;

(4) planning and development assistance for increasing the energy efficiency of buildings and facilities; and

(5) technical and financial assistance to local government and private entities on developing new renewable and distributed sources of power or combined heat and power generation.

(c) Definition For purposes of this section, the term “Indian tribe” means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaskan Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ([43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.

(d) Authorization of appropriations For the purposes of this section there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2008.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 126](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s126), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 618](/us/stat/119/618).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is [Pub. L. 92–203](/us/pl/92/203), Dec. 18, 1971, [85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1601) and Tables.
