---
title: "§ 19119. Reports and roadmaps"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19119"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19119"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10399](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10399), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1598](/us/stat/136/1598).)"
---
# § 19119. Reports and roadmaps

##### § 19119. Reports and roadmaps

(a) Annual report The Director shall provide to the relevant authorizing and appropriations committees of Congress an annual report describing projects supported by the Directorate during the previous year.

(b) Roadmap Not later than 1 year after August 9, 2022, the Director shall provide to the relevant authorizing and appropriations committees of Congress a roadmap describing the strategic vision that the Directorate will use to guide investment decisions over the following 3 years.

(c) Reports Not later than 1 year after August 9, 2022, and every 3 years thereafter, the Director, in consultation with the heads of relevant Federal agencies, shall prepare and submit to Congress—

(1) a strategic vision for the next 5 years for the Directorate, including a description of how the Foundation will increase funding for research and education for populations underrepresented in STEM and geographic areas; and

(2) a description of the planned activities of the Directorate to secure federally funded science and technology pursuant to section 1746 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 ([Public Law 116–92](/us/pl/116/92); [42 U.S.C. 6601](/us/usc/t42/s6601) note) and [section 6605 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6605) and the requirements under part D of this subchapter and subtitle E of title VI.

(d) Selection criteria report Not later than 24 months after the establishment of the Directorate, the Director shall prepare and submit a report to Congress regarding the use of alternative methods for the selection of award recipients and the distribution of funding to recipients, as compared to the traditional peer review process.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10399](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10399), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1598](/us/stat/136/1598).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subtitle E of title VI, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), is subtitle E (§§ 10641–10649) of title VI of div. B of [Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/136/1672), known as the Coastal and Ocean Acidification Research and Innovation Act of 2021. For complete classification of subtitle E to the Code, see Short Title of 2022 Amendment note set out under [section 3701 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s3701), Navigation and Navigable Waters, and Tables.
