---
title: "§ 32914. Collecting civil penalties"
identifier: "USC-T49-S32914"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section32914"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1074](/us/stat/108/1074).)"
---
# § 32914. Collecting civil penalties

##### § 32914. Collecting civil penalties

(a) Civil Actions.— If a person does not pay a civil penalty after it becomes a final order of the Secretary of Transportation or a judgment of a court of appeals of the United States for a circuit, the Attorney General shall bring a civil action in an appropriate district court of the United States to collect the penalty. The validity and appropriateness of the final order imposing the penalty is not reviewable in the action.

(b) Priority of Claims.— A claim of a creditor against a bankrupt or insolvent manufacturer of automobiles has priority over a claim of the United States Government against the manufacturer for a civil penalty under [section 32912(b) of this title](/us/usc/t49/s32912/b) when the creditor’s claim is for credit extended before a final judgment (without regard to section 32913(b)(1) and (2) of this title) in an action to collect under subsection (a) of this section.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1074](/us/stat/108/1074).)*

In subsection (a), the text of 15:2008(b)(3) (last sentence) is omitted as surplus because of 28:516 and 2461(a). The words “an assessment of” and “and unappealable” are omitted as surplus. The words “of the Secretary of Transportation” are added for clarity. The words “for a circuit” are added for consistency. The words “in favor of the Secretary” are omitted as surplus. The words “shall bring a civil action . . . to collect the penalty” are substituted for “shall recover the amount for which the manufacturer is liable” for consistency.

In subsection (b), the words “A claim of a creditor against a bankrupt or insolvent manufacturer of automobiles has priority over a claim of the United States Government against the manufacturer” are substituted for “A claim of the United States . . . against a manufacturer . . . shall, in the case of the bankruptcy or insolvency of such manufacturer, be subordinate to any claim of a creditor of such manufacturer” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “the date on which” are omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 32914(a) | 15:2008(b)(3) (last sentence), (c)(2). | Oct. 20, 1972, Pub. L. 92–513, 86 Stat. 947, § 508(b)(3) (last sentence), (6), (c)(2); added Dec. 22, 1975, Pub. L. 94–163, § 301, 89 Stat. 913, 914. |
| 32914(b) | 15:2008(b)(6). |  |
