---
title: "§ 1765. Terms and conditions"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1765"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1765"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–579, title V, § 505](/us/pl/94/579/tV/s505), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2780](/us/stat/90/2780).)"
---
# § 1765. Terms and conditions

##### § 1765. Terms and conditions

(a) terms and conditions which will (i) carry out the purposes of this Act and rules and regulations issued thereunder; (ii) minimize damage to scenic and esthetic values and fish and wildlife habitat and otherwise protect the environment; (iii) require compliance with applicable air and water quality standards established by or pursuant to applicable Federal or State law; and (iv) require compliance with State standards for public health and safety, environmental protection, and siting, construction, operation, and maintenance of or for rights-of-way for similar purposes if those standards are more stringent than applicable Federal standards; and

(b) such terms and conditions as the Secretary concerned deems necessary to (i) protect Federal property and economic interests; (ii) manage efficiently the lands which are subject to the right-of-way or adjacent thereto and protect the other lawful users of the lands adjacent to or traversed by such right-of-way; (iii) protect lives and property; (iv) protect the interests of individuals living in the general area traversed by the right-of-way who rely on the fish, wildlife, and other biotic resources of the area for subsistence purposes; (v) require location of the right-of-way along a route that will cause least damage to the environment, taking into consideration feasibility and other relevant factors; and (vi) otherwise protect the public interest in the lands traversed by the right-of-way or adjacent thereto.

*([Pub. L. 94–579, title V, § 505](/us/pl/94/579/tV/s505), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2780](/us/stat/90/2780).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in par. (a), is [Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2743](/us/stat/90/2743), known as the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

See note set out under [section 1763 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1763).
