---
title: "§ 15703. Counties eligible for assistance in more than one region"
identifier: "USC-T40-S15703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section15703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1480](/us/stat/122/1480), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2242.)"
---
# § 15703. Counties eligible for assistance in more than one region

##### § 15703. Counties eligible for assistance in more than one region

(a) Limitation.— A political subdivision of a State may not receive assistance under this subtitle in a fiscal year from more than one Commission.

(b) Selection of Commission.— A political subdivision included in the region of more than one Commission shall select the Commission with which it will participate by notifying, in writing, the Federal Cochairperson and the appropriate State member of that Commission.

(c) Changes in Selections.— The selection of a Commission by a political subdivision shall apply in the fiscal year in which the selection is made, and shall apply in each subsequent fiscal year unless the political subdivision, at least 90 days before the first day of the fiscal year, notifies the Cochairpersons of another Commission in writing that the political subdivision will participate in that Commission and also transmits a copy of such notification to the Cochairpersons of the Commission in which the political subdivision is currently participating.

(d) Inclusion of Appalachian Regional Commission.— In this section, the term “Commission” includes the Appalachian Regional Commission established under chapter 143.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1480](/us/stat/122/1480), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2242.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after June 18, 2008, see [section 14217(d) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s14217/d), set out as a note under [section 15101 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s15101).
