---
title: "§ 4542. Congressional declaration for utilization of programs under other Federal laws in fields of health and social services"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4542"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4542"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–282, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/93/282/tI/s102/b), May 14, 1974, [88 Stat. 126](/us/stat/88/126).)"
---
# § 4542. Congressional declaration for utilization of programs under other Federal laws in fields of health and social services

##### § 4542. Congressional declaration for utilization of programs under other Federal laws in fields of health and social services

The Congress declares that, in addition to the programs under the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act of 1970 [[42 U.S.C. 4541](/us/usc/t42/s4541) et seq.], programs under other Federal laws which provide Federal or federally assisted research, prevention, treatment, or rehabilitation in the fields of health and social services should be appropriately utilized to help eradicate alcohol abuse and alcoholism as a major problem.

*([Pub. L. 93–282, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/93/282/tI/s102/b), May 14, 1974, [88 Stat. 126](/us/stat/88/126).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act of 1970, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 91–616](/us/pl/91/616), Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1848](/us/stat/84/1848), which is classified principally to this chapter (§ 4541 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4541 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4541) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act of 1970 which comprises this chapter.
