---
title: "§ 1501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–141, div. P, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/115/141/dP/tVI/s602), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/132/1097).)"
---
# § 1501. Definitions

##### § 1501. Definitions

(1) Appropriate committees of Congress The term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—

(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and

(C) each committee of the Senate or of the House of Representatives with jurisdiction over a Federal entity affected by the applicable section in which the term appears.

(2) Commission The term “Commission” means the Federal Communications Commission.

(3) Federal entity The term “Federal entity” has the meaning given the term in section 923(*l*) of this title.

(4) NTIA The term “NTIA” means the National Telecommunications and Information Administration of the Department of Commerce.

(5) OMB The term “OMB” means the Office of Management and Budget.

(6) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce.

*([Pub. L. 115–141, div. P, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/115/141/dP/tVI/s602), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/132/1097).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title VI of div. P of [Pub. L. 115–141](/us/pl/115/141), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/132/1097), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title VI to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 115–141, div. P, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/115/141/dP/tVI/s601), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/132/1097), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter, amending sections 928 and 1455 of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under [section 1455 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1455), and enacting and amending provisions set out as as notes under [section 1303 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s1303), Public Buildings, Property, and Works] may be cited as the ‘Making Opportunities for Broadband Investment and Limiting Excessive and Needless Obstacles to Wireless Act’ or the ‘MOBILE NOW Act’.”
