---
title: "§ 304101. Establishment; vacancies"
identifier: "USC-T54-S304101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section304101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3209](/us/stat/128/3209); [Pub. L. 114–289, title V, § 501(a)](/us/pl/114/289/tV/s501/a)–(c)(1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1489](/us/stat/130/1489).)"
---
# § 304101. Establishment; vacancies

##### § 304101. Establishment; vacancies

(a) Establishment.— There is established as an independent agency of the United States Government an Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, which shall be composed of the following members:

(1) A Chairman appointed by the President selected from the general public.

(2) The Secretary.

(3) The Architect of the Capitol.

(4) The Secretary of Agriculture and the heads of 7 other agencies of the United States (other than the Department of the Interior), the activities of which affect historic preservation, designated by the President.

(5) One Governor appointed by the President.

(6) One mayor appointed by the President.

(7) The President of the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers.

(8) The General Chairman of the National Association of Tribal Historic Preservation Officers.

(9) The Chairman of the National Trust.

(10) Four experts in the field of historic preservation appointed by the President from architecture, history, archeology, and other appropriate disciplines.

(11) Three members from the general public, appointed by the President.

(12) One member of an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization who represents the interests of the Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization of which he or she is a member, appointed by the President.

(b) Designation of Substitutes.— Each member of the Council specified in paragraphs (2) to (5) and (7) through (9) of subsection (a) may designate another officer of the department, agency, or organization to serve on the Council instead of the member, except that, in the case of paragraphs (2) and (4), no officer other than an Assistant Secretary or an officer having major department-wide or agency-wide responsibilities may be designated.

(c) Term of Office.— Each member of the Council appointed under paragraphs (10) through (12) of subsection (a) shall serve for a term of 4 years from the expiration of the term of the member’s predecessor. The members appointed under paragraphs (5) and (6) shall serve for the term of their elected office but not in excess of 4 years. An appointed member, other than the Chairman of the Council, may not serve more than 2 terms. An appointed member whose term has expired shall serve until that member’s successor has been appointed.

(d) Vacancies.— A vacancy in the Council shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled, not later than 60 days after the vacancy commences, in the same manner as the original appointment (and for the balance of the unexpired term).

(e) Chairman.—

(1) After January 20, 2017, the Chairman shall—

(A) be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;

(B) serve at the will of the President;

(C) serve full time; and

(D) be compensated at the rate provided for Level V of the Executive Schedule Pay Rates under [section 5316 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5316).

(2) The Chairman shall serve for a term of 4 years and may be reappointed once, for a total of not more than 8 years of service as Chairman, except that a Chairman whose appointment has expired under this paragraph shall serve until his or her successor has been appointed. The term of a Chairman shall start (regardless of actual appointment date) on January 20 after each general Presidential election. The first Chairman appointed after the date of enactment of this paragraph shall have a first term commencing on January 20, 2017, and ending on January 19, 2021.

(3) The Chairmen before the first appointment of a Chairman in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection shall receive $100 per diem when engaged in the performance of the duties of the Council, and shall receive reimbursement for necessary traveling and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the performance of the duties of the Council.

(f) Designation of Vice Chairman.— The President shall designate a Vice Chairman from the members appointed under paragraph (5), (6), (10), or (11) of subsection (a). The Vice Chairman shall perform the functions of the Chairman during the absence or disability of the Chairman or when the office is vacant.

(g) Quorum.— Thirteen members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3209](/us/stat/128/3209); [Pub. L. 114–289, title V, § 501(a)](/us/pl/114/289/tV/s501/a)–(c)(1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1489](/us/stat/130/1489).)*

In subsection (a)(9), the words “the disciplines of” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 304101 | 16 U.S.C. 470i. | Pub. L. 89–665, title II, § 201, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 917; Pub. L. 91–243, § 1(b) through (e), May 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 204; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(c), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 94–422, title II, § 201(5), Sept. 28, 1976, 90 Stat. 1320; Pub. L. 96–515, title III, § 301(a) through (f), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2998; Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, §§ 4016, 4019(b), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4763, 4765; Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title V, § 509(c)(1), (2), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4157; Pub. L. 109–453, § 1(d), Dec. 22, 2006, 120 Stat. 3367. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this paragraph, referred to in subsec. (e)(2), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 114–289](/us/pl/114/289), which was approved Dec. 16, 2016.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(8) to (12). [Pub. L. 114–289, § 501(a)](/us/pl/114/289/s501/a), added par. (8) and redesignated former pars. (8) to (11) as (9) to (12), respectively.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–289, § 501(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/289/s501/c/1/A), substituted “and (7) through (9)” for “, (7), and (8)”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–289, § 501(c)(1)(B)](/us/pl/114/289/s501/c/1/B), substituted “under paragraphs (10) through (12)” for “under paragraphs (1) and (9) to (11)” and “An appointed member, other than the Chairman of the Council, may not serve more than 2 terms.” for “An appointed member may not serve more than 2 terms.”

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 114–289, § 501(b)(2)](/us/pl/114/289/s501/b/2), added subsec. (e). Former subsec. (e) redesignated (f).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 114–289, § 501(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/289/s501/b/1), (3), (c)(1)(C), redesignated subsec. (e) as (f) and substituted “paragraph (5), (6), (10), or (11)” for “paragraph (5), (6), (9), or (10)” and “shall perform the functions” for “may act in place”. Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 114–289, § 501(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/289/s501/b/1), (c)(1)(D), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g) and substituted “Thirteen members” for “Twelve members”.
