---
title: "§ 13477. High-temperature superconductivity program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13477"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13477"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXI, § 2117](/us/pl/102/486/tXXI/s2117), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3075](/us/stat/106/3075).)"
---
# § 13477. High-temperature superconductivity program

##### § 13477. High-temperature superconductivity program

(a) Program The Secretary shall carry out a 5-year program, in accordance with sections 13541 and 13542 of this title, on high-temperature superconducting electric power equipment technologies. Elements of the program shall include, but are not limited to—

The Secretary is also encouraged to expedite government, laboratory, industry, and university collaborative agreements under existing mechanisms at the Department of Energy in coordination with other Federal agencies.

(1) activities that address the development of high-temperature superconducting materials that have increased electrical current capacity, which shall be the emphasis of the program for the near-term;

(2) the development of prototypes, where appropriate, of the major elements of a superconducting electric power system such as motors, generators, transmission lines, transformers, and magnetic energy storage systems;

(3) activities that will improve the efficiency of materials performance of higher temperatures and at all magnetic field orientations;

(4) development of prototypes based on high-temperature superconducting wire, that operate at the highest temperature possible, and refrigeration systems using cryogenics such as nitrogen;

(5) activities that will assist the private sector with designs for more efficient electric power generation and delivery systems which are cost competitive with conventional energy systems; and

(6) development of prototypes that have application in both the commercial and defense sectors.

(b) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this section $21,900,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for subsequent fiscal years, to be derived from sums authorized under [section 13471(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13471/c).

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXI, § 2117](/us/pl/102/486/tXXI/s2117), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3075](/us/stat/106/3075).)*
