---
title: "§ 459f–11. Comprehensive plan for protection, management, and use of seashore"
identifier: "USC-T16-S459f–11"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section459f–11"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–195, § 12](/us/pl/89/195/s12), as added [Pub. L. 94–578, title III, § 301](/us/pl/94/578/tIII/s301), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2733](/us/stat/90/2733).)"
---
# § 459f–11. Comprehensive plan for protection, management, and use of seashore

##### § 459f–11. Comprehensive plan for protection, management, and use of seashore

(a) Contents; transmittal to Congressional committees Within two years of October 21, 1976, the Secretary shall develop and transmit to the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives a comprehensive plan for the protection, management, and use of the seashore, to include but not be limited to the following considerations:

(1) measures for the full protection and management of the natural resources and natural ecosystems of the seashore;

(2) present and proposed uses of the seashore and the lands and waters adjacent or related thereto, the uses of which would reasonably be expected to influence the administration, use, and environmental quality of the seashore;

(3) plans for the development of facilities necessary and appropriate for visitor use and enjoyment of the seashore, with identification of resource and user carrying capacities, along with the anticipated costs for all proposed development;

(4) plans for visitor transportation systems integrated and coordinated with lands and facilities adjacent to, but outside of, the seashore; and

(5) plans for fostering the development of cooperative agreements and land and resource use patterns outside the seashore which would be compatible with the protection and management of the seashore.

(b) Consultation by other Federal agencies with Secretary Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal loan, grant, license, or other form of assistance for any project which, in the opinion of the Secretary would significantly adversely affect the administration, use, and environmental quality of the seashore shall be made, issued, or approved by the head of any Federal agency without first consulting with the Secretary to determine whether or not such project is consistent with the plan developed pursuant to this section and allowing him at least thirty days to comment in writing on such proposed action.

*([Pub. L. 89–195, § 12](/us/pl/89/195/s12), as added [Pub. L. 94–578, title III, § 301](/us/pl/94/578/tIII/s301), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2733](/us/stat/90/2733).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the Senate abolished and replaced by Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, effective Feb. 11, 1977. See Rule XXV of Standing Rules of the Senate, as amended by Senate Resolution No. 4 (popularly cited as the “Committee System Reorganization Amendments of 1977”), approved Feb. 4, 1977.

Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.
