---
title: "§ 300b–3. Application; special consideration to prior sickle cell anemia grant recipients"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300b–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300b–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XI, § 1104, as added [Pub. L. 94–278, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/94/278/tIV/s403/a), Apr. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 408](/us/stat/90/408); amended [Pub. L. 95–626, title II, § 205(c)](/us/pl/95/626/tII/s205/c), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3584](/us/stat/92/3584); [Pub. L. 97–35, title XXI, § 2193(b)(2)](/us/pl/97/35/tXXI/s2193/b/2), (3), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 827](/us/stat/95/827).)"
---
# § 300b–3. Application; special consideration to prior sickle cell anemia grant recipients

##### § 300b–3. Application; special consideration to prior sickle cell anemia grant recipients

(a) Manner of submission; contents A grant or contract under this part may be made upon application submitted to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing and accompanied by such information, as the Secretary may require, including assurances for an evaluation whether performed by the applicant or by the Secretary. Such grant or contract may be made available on less than a statewide or regional basis. Each applicant shall—

(1) provide that the programs and activities for which assistance under this part is sought will be administered by or under the supervision of the applicant;

(2) provide for strict confidentiality of all test results, medical records, and other information regarding testing, diagnosis, counseling, or treatment of any person treated, except for (A) such information as the patient (or his guardian) gives informed consent to be released, or (B) statistical data compiled without reference to the identity of any such patient;

(3) provide for community representation where appropriate in the development and operation of voluntary genetic testing or counseling programs funded by a grant or contract under this part; and

(4) establish fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure proper disbursement of and accounting of Federal funds paid to the applicant under this part.

(b) Considerations for grants and contracts under [section 300b–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300b–1) In making grants and entering into contracts for any fiscal year under [section 241 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s241) for projects described in [section 300b–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300b–1) the Secretary shall give special consideration to applications from entities that received grants from, or entered into contracts with, the Secretary for the preceding fiscal year for the conduct of comprehensive sickle cell centers or sickle cell screening and education clinics.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XI, § 1104, as added [Pub. L. 94–278, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/94/278/tIV/s403/a), Apr. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 408](/us/stat/90/408); amended [Pub. L. 95–626, title II, § 205(c)](/us/pl/95/626/tII/s205/c), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3584](/us/stat/92/3584); [Pub. L. 97–35, title XXI, § 2193(b)(2)](/us/pl/97/35/tXXI/s2193/b/2), (3), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 827](/us/stat/95/827).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 300b–3, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XI, § 1104](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tXI/s1104), as added May 16, 1972, [Pub. L. 92–294, § 3(c)](/us/pl/92/294/s3/c), [86 Stat. 138](/us/stat/86/138); amended Aug. 29, 1972, [Pub. L. 92–414, § 4(3)](/us/pl/92/414/s4/3), [86 Stat. 652](/us/stat/86/652), authorized grants to be made upon application to Secretary and required supervision of programs by applicant, confidentiality of test results, medical records and other information obtained from treated person, community representation in programs, assurances by applicant that priority will be given to persons of child bearing years, and demonstration by applicant of proper fiscal control and accounting procedures, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 94–278, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/94/278/tIV/s403/a), Apr. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 407](/us/stat/90/407).

#### Amendments

1981—Subsec. (a)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2193(b)(2)](/us/pl/97/35/s2193/b/2), redesignated par. (5) as (4). Former par. (4), which related to testing and counseling requirements, was struck out.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2193(b)(3)](/us/pl/97/35/s2193/b/3), struck out subsec. (b) which related to grants and contracts under [section 300b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300b). Former subsec. (c) was redesignated (b) and, as so redesignated, struck out reference to [section 300b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300b).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2193(b)(3)](/us/pl/97/35/s2193/b/3), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 97–35, § 2193(b)(3)](/us/pl/97/35/s2193/b/3), struck out subsec. (d) which related to procedures applicable to grants, etc., under [section 300b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300b).

1978—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 95–626, § 205(c)(1)](/us/pl/95/626/s205/c/1), inserted requirement that application contain assurances for an evaluation whether performed by applicant or by Secretary and that grant or contract be made available on less than a statewide or regional basis.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 95–626, § 205(c)(2)](/us/pl/95/626/s205/c/2), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment, Savings, and Transitional Provisions

For effective date, savings, and transitional provisions relating to amendment by [Pub. L. 97–35](/us/pl/97/35), see [section 2194 of Pub. L. 97–35](/us/pl/97/35/s2194), set out as a note under [section 701 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s701).
