---
title: "§ 1715. GAO audit"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1715"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1715"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, § 8220](/us/pl/115/271/tVIII/s8220), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4134](/us/stat/132/4134).)"
---
# § 1715. GAO audit

##### § 1715. GAO audit

(1) conduct an audit relating to the programs and operations of—

(A) the Office; 11 See References in Text note below. and

(B) certain programs within the Office,^1 including—

(i) the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program;

(ii) the Drug-Free Communities Program; and

(iii) the campaign under [section 1708(f) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1708/f); and

(2) submit to the Director ^1 and the appropriate congressional committees ^1 a report containing an evaluation of and recommendations on the—

(A) policies and activities of the programs and operations subject to the audit;

(B) economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of the reviewed programs and operations; and

(C) policy or management changes needed to prevent and detect fraud and abuse in such programs and operations.

*([Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, § 8220](/us/pl/115/271/tVIII/s8220), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4134](/us/stat/132/4134).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The terms “Office”, “Director”, and “appropriate congressional committees”, referred to in text, probably have the meanings given such terms in [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1701).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Substance Abuse Prevention Act of 2018, and also as part of the Substance Use–Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act, also known as the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, and not as part of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 which comprises this chapter.
