---
title: "§ 9503. Streamlined critical pay authority"
identifier: "USC-T5-S9503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section9503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–206, title I, § 1201(a)](/us/pl/105/206/tI/s1201/a), July 22, 1998, [112 Stat. 712](/us/stat/112/712); amended [Pub. L. 110–161, div. D, title I, § 105](/us/pl/110/161/dD/tI/s105), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1977](/us/stat/121/1977); [Pub. L. 113–6, div. F, title III, § 1309](/us/pl/113/6/dF/tIII/s1309), Mar. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 418](/us/stat/127/418).)"
---
# § 9503. Streamlined critical pay authority

##### § 9503. Streamlined critical pay authority

(a) Notwithstanding section 9502, and without regard to the provisions of this title governing appointments in the competitive service or the Senior Executive Service and chapters 51 and 53 (relating to classification and pay rates), the Secretary of the Treasury may, Before 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. September 30, 2013, establish, fix the compensation of, and appoint individuals to, designated critical administrative, technical, and professional positions needed to carry out the functions of the Internal Revenue Service, if—

(1) the positions—

(A) require expertise of an extremely high level in an administrative, technical, or professional field; and

(B) are critical to the Internal Revenue Service’s successful accomplishment of an important mission;

(2) exercise of the authority is necessary to recruit or retain an individual exceptionally well qualified for the position;

(3) the number of such positions does not exceed 40 at any one time;

(4) designation of such positions are approved by the Secretary of the Treasury;

(5) the terms of such appointments are limited to no more than 4 years;

(6) appointees to such positions were not Internal Revenue Service employees prior to June 1, 1998;

(7) total annual compensation for any appointee to such positions does not exceed the highest total annual compensation payable at the rate determined under [section 104 of title 3](/us/usc/t3/s104); and

(8) all such positions are excluded from the collective bargaining unit.

(b) Individuals appointed under this section shall not be considered to be employees for purposes of subchapter II of chapter 75.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–206, title I, § 1201(a)](/us/pl/105/206/tI/s1201/a), July 22, 1998, [112 Stat. 712](/us/stat/112/712); amended [Pub. L. 110–161, div. D, title I, § 105](/us/pl/110/161/dD/tI/s105), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1977](/us/stat/121/1977); [Pub. L. 113–6, div. F, title III, § 1309](/us/pl/113/6/dF/tIII/s1309), Mar. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 418](/us/stat/127/418).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The provisions of this title governing appointments in the competitive service, referred to in subsec. (a), are classified generally to section 3301 et seq. of this title.

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–6](/us/pl/113/6), which directed substitution of “Before September 30, 2013” for “Before July 23, 2013” wherever appearing, was executed by making the substitution for “before July 23, 2013” in introductory provisions to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

2007—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161) substituted “before July 23, 2013” for “for a period of 10 years after the date of enactment of this section” in introductory provisions.
