---
title: "§ 2157. Release of trade secrets"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2157"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2157"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–544, § 27](/us/pl/89/544/s27), as added [Pub. L. 99–198, title XVII, § 1754](/us/pl/99/198/tXVII/s1754), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1649](/us/stat/99/1649).)"
---
# § 2157. Release of trade secrets

##### § 2157. Release of trade secrets

(a) Release of confidential information prohibited It shall be unlawful for any member of an Institutional Animal Committee to release any confidential information of the research facility including any information that concerns or relates to—

of the research facility.

(1) the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, or apparatus; or

(2) the identity, confidential statistical data, amount or source of any income, profits, losses, or expenditures,

(b) Wrongful use of confidential information prohibited It shall be unlawful for any member of such Committee—

any information which is entitled to protection as confidential information under subsection (a).

(1) to use or attempt to use to his advantages; or

(2) to reveal to any other person,

(c) Penalties A violation of subsection (a) or (b) is punishable by—

(1) removal from such Committee; and

(2)

(A) a fine of not more than $1,000 and imprisonment of not more than one year; or

(B) if such violation is willful, a fine of not more than $10,000 and imprisonment of not more than three years.

(d) Recovery of damages by injured person; costs; attorney’s fee Any person, including any research facility, injured in its business or property by reason of a violation of this section may recover all actual and consequential damages sustained by such person and the cost of the suit including a reasonable attorney’s fee.

(e) Other rights and remedies Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any other rights of a person injured in its business or property by reason of a violation of this section. Subsection (d) shall not be construed to limit the exercise of any such rights arising out of or relating to a violation of subsections (a) and (b).

*([Pub. L. 89–544, § 27](/us/pl/89/544/s27), as added [Pub. L. 99–198, title XVII, § 1754](/us/pl/99/198/tXVII/s1754), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1649](/us/stat/99/1649).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective one year after Dec. 23, 1985, see [section 1759 of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s1759), set out as an Effective Date of 1985 Amendment note under [section 2131 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2131).
