---
title: "§ 12353. Establishment of National Center on Family Resource and Support Programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12353"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12353"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–501, title IX, § 958](/us/pl/101/501/tIX/s958), Nov. 3, 1990, [104 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/104/1279); [Pub. L. 103–252, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/103/252/tIV/s403/a), May 18, 1994, [108 Stat. 673](/us/stat/108/673).)"
---
# § 12353. Establishment of National Center on Family Resource and Support Programs

##### § 12353. Establishment of National Center on Family Resource and Support Programs

(a) Establishment The Commissioner shall establish, through grant or contract, a national center for the collection and provision of programmatic information and technical assistance that relates to all types of family resource and support programs, to be known as the “National Center on Family Resource and Support Programs”.

(b) Functions The national center established under subsection (a) shall serve as a national information and data clearinghouse, training, technical assistance, and material development source for family resource and support programs. Such center shall—

(1) develop and maintain a system for disseminating information on all types of family resource and support programs and on the state of family resource and support program development, including information concerning the most effective model programs;

(2) develop and sponsor a variety of training institutes and curricula for family resource and support program staff;

(3) identify several programs representing the various types of family resource and support programs to develop technical assistance materials and activities to assist other agencies in establishing family resource and support programs; and

(4) develop State-wide networks of family resource and support programs for the purpose of sharing and disseminating information.

*([Pub. L. 101–501, title IX, § 958](/us/pl/101/501/tIX/s958), Nov. 3, 1990, [104 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/104/1279); [Pub. L. 103–252, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/103/252/tIV/s403/a), May 18, 1994, [108 Stat. 673](/us/stat/108/673).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 103–252](/us/pl/103/252) substituted “several programs” for “several model programs”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1990, see [section 1001(a) of Pub. L. 101–501](/us/pl/101/501/s1001/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1990 Amendment note under [section 8621 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8621).
