---
title: "§ 4401. Inclusion of interest in certain distributions of antidumping duties and countervailing duties"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–125, title VI, § 605](/us/pl/114/125/tVI/s605), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 187](/us/stat/130/187).)"
---
# § 4401. Inclusion of interest in certain distributions of antidumping duties and countervailing duties

##### § 4401. Inclusion of interest in certain distributions of antidumping duties and countervailing duties

(a) In general The Secretary of Homeland Security shall deposit all interest described in subsection (c) into the special account established under [section 1675c(e) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1675c/e) (repealed by subtitle F of title VII of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 ([Public Law 109–171](/us/pl/109/171); [120 Stat. 154](/us/stat/120/154))) for inclusion in distributions described in subsection (b) made on or after February 24, 2016.

(b) Distributions described Distributions described in this subsection are distributions of antidumping duties and countervailing duties assessed on or after October 1, 2000, that are made under [section 1675c of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1675c) (repealed by subtitle F of title VII of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 ([Public Law 109–171](/us/pl/109/171); [120 Stat. 154](/us/stat/120/154))), with respect to entries of merchandise that—

(1) were made on or before September 30, 2007; and

(2) were, in accordance with section 822 of the Claims Resolution Act of 2010 ([19 U.S.C. 1675c](/us/usc/t19/s1675c) note), unliquidated, not in litigation, and not under an order of liquidation from the Department of Commerce on December 8, 2010.

(c) Interest described

(1) Interest realized Interest described in this subsection is interest earned on antidumping duties or countervailing duties described in subsection (b) that is realized through application of a payment received on or after October 1, 2014, by U.S. Customs and Border Protection under, or in connection with—

(A) a customs bond pursuant to a court order or judgment; or

(B) a settlement with respect to a customs bond, including any payment made to U.S. Customs and Border Protection with respect to that bond by a surety.

(2) Types of interest Interest described in paragraph (1) includes the following:

(A) Interest accrued under [section 1677g of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1677g).

(B) Interest accrued under [section 1505(d) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1505/d).

(C) Equitable interest under common law and interest under [section 580 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s580) awarded by a court against a surety under its bond for late payment of antidumping duties, countervailing duties, or interest described in subparagraph (A) or (B).

(d) Definitions In this section:

(1) Antidumping duties The term “antidumping duties” means antidumping duties imposed under [section 1673 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673) or under the Antidumping Act, 1921 (title II of the Act of May 27, 1921; [42 Stat. 11](/us/stat/42/11), chapter 14).

(2) Countervailing duties The term “countervailing duties” means countervailing duties imposed under [section 1671 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671).

*([Pub. L. 114–125, title VI, § 605](/us/pl/114/125/tVI/s605), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 187](/us/stat/130/187).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1675c of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1675c) (repealed by subtitle F of title VII of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005), referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), means [section 1675c of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1675c), which was repealed by [Pub. L. 109–171, title VII, § 7601(a)](/us/pl/109/171/tVII/s7601/a), Feb. 8, 2006, [120 Stat. 154](/us/stat/120/154), and which related to an annual distribution to certain domestic producers known as the “continued dumping and subsidy offset”. Subsec. (e) of section 1675c related to special accounts established in the Treasury of the United States for certain antidumping and countervailing duty orders and findings.

Section 822 of the Claims Resolution Act of 2010, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [section 822 of Pub. L. 111–291](/us/pl/111/291/s822), which is set out as a note under [section 1675c of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1675c).

The Antidumping Act, 1921, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is [act May 27, 1921, ch. 14, title II](/us/act/1921-05-27/ch14/tII), [42 Stat. 11](/us/stat/42/11), which was classified generally to sections 160 to 171 of this title, and was repealed by [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s106/a), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 193](/us/stat/93/193).
