---
title: "§ 21505. Implementation"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–119, § 6(c)](/us/pl/114/119/s6/c), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 23](/us/stat/130/23).)"
---
# § 21505. Implementation

##### § 21505. Implementation

In carrying out this chapter, and the amendments made by this chapter, the Attorney General may use the resources and capacities of any appropriate agencies of the Department of Justice, including the Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering, and Tracking, the United States Marshals Service, INTERPOL Washington-U.S. National Central Bureau, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Criminal Division, and the United States Attorneys’ Offices.

*([Pub. L. 114–119, § 6(c)](/us/pl/114/119/s6/c), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 23](/us/stat/130/23).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–119](/us/pl/114/119), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 15](/us/stat/130/15), known as the International Megan’s Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of Traveling Sex Offenders, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2016 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16935d of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16935d), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

The amendments made by this chapter, referred to in text, mean the amendments made by [Pub. L. 114–119](/us/pl/114/119). See Short Title of 2016 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.
