---
title: "§ 2275. Firing or tampering with vessels"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2275"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2275"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 804](/us/stat/62/804); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 2275. Firing or tampering with vessels

##### § 2275. Firing or tampering with vessels

Whoever sets fire to any vessel of foreign registry, or any vessel of American registry entitled to engage in commerce with foreign nations, or to any vessel of the United States, or to the cargo of the same, or tampers with the motive power of instrumentalities of navigation of such vessel, or places bombs or explosives in or upon such vessel, or does any other act to or upon such vessel while within the jurisdiction of the United States, or, if such vessel is of American registry, while she is on the high sea, with intent to injure or endanger the safety of the vessel or of her cargo, or of persons on board, whether the injury or danger is so intended to take place within the jurisdiction of the United States, or after the vessel shall have departed therefrom and whoever attempts to do so shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than twenty years, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 804](/us/stat/62/804); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 502 ([June 15, 1917, ch. 30](/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30), title III, § 1, [40 Stat. 221](/us/stat/40/221)).

Words “as defined in [section 501 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s501),” were omitted in view of [section 9 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s9), defining vessel of the United States.

Last sentence of said section 502, defining “United States”, was incorporated in [section 5 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s5).

Provision prohibiting conspiracy was deleted as adequately covered by the general conspiracy statute, [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s371).

Minor changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $10,000”.
