---
title: "§ 8932. Performance standard for the detection of highly fluorinated compounds"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8932"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8932"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXIII, § 7332](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXIII/s7332), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2282](/us/stat/133/2282).)"
---
# § 8932. Performance standard for the detection of highly fluorinated compounds

##### § 8932. Performance standard for the detection of highly fluorinated compounds

(a) In general The Director, in consultation with the Administrator, shall establish a performance standard for the detection of highly fluorinated compounds.

(b) Emphasis

(1) In general In developing the performance standard under subsection (a), the Director shall emphasize the ability to detect as many highly fluorinated compounds present in the environment as possible using validated analytical methods that—

(A) achieve limits of quantitation (as defined in the document of the United States Geological Survey entitled “Analytical Methods for Chemical Analysis of Geologic and Other Materials, U.S. Geological Survey” and dated 2002); and

(B) are as sensitive as is feasible and practicable.

(2) Requirement In developing the performance standard under subsection (a), the Director may—

(A) develop quality assurance and quality control measures to ensure accurate sampling and testing;

(B) develop a training program with respect to the appropriate method of sample collection and analysis of highly fluorinated compounds; and

(C) coordinate as necessary with the Administrator, including, if appropriate, to develop methods to detect individual and different highly fluorinated compounds simultaneously.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXIII, § 7332](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXIII/s7332), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2282](/us/stat/133/2282).)*
