---
title: "§ 19106. Advisory committee"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10386](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10386), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1578](/us/stat/136/1578).)"
---
# § 19106. Advisory committee

##### § 19106. Advisory committee

(a) In general In accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) 11 See References in Text note below. the Director shall establish an advisory committee to assess, and make recommendations regarding, the activities carried out under this part.

(b) Membership The advisory committee members shall—

(1) be individuals with relevant experience or expertise, including individuals from industry and national labs, educators, academic subject matter experts, including individuals with knowledge of key technology focus areas and their impact on United States national security and geostrategic leadership, the technical and social dimensions of science and technology, technology transfer experts, labor organizations, representatives of civil society, and other nongovernmental organizations; and

(2) consist of at least 10 members broadly representative of stakeholders, including no less than 3 members from the private sector, none of whom shall be an employee of the Federal Government, and no less than 1 member with significant expertise in United States national security and economic competitiveness.

(c) Responsibilities The Committee’s responsibilities shall include—

(1) reviewing and advising on activities carried out under this part;

(2) proposing strategies for fulfilling the purposes in [section 19102 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s19102);

(3) proposing potential areas of research, particularly as relevant to United States societal, national, and geostrategic challenges; and

(4) other relevant issues as determined by the Director.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10386](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10386), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1578](/us/stat/136/1578).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 92–463](/us/pl/92/463), Oct. 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 770](/us/stat/86/770), which was set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and was substantially repealed and restated in chapter 10 (§ 1001 et seq.) of Title 5 by [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286), §§ 3(a), 7, Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4197](/us/stat/136/4197), 4361. For disposition of sections of the Act into chapter 10 of Title 5, see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s101).
