---
title: "§ 2702. Loans for feasibility studies"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–617, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/95/617/tIV/s402), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3154](/us/stat/92/3154).)"
---
# § 2702. Loans for feasibility studies

##### § 2702. Loans for feasibility studies

(a) Loan authority The Secretary, after consultation with the Commission, is authorized to make a loan to any municipality, electric cooperative, industrial development agency, nonprofit organization, or other person to assist such person in defraying up to 90 percent of the costs of—

(1) studies to determine the feasibility of undertaking a small hydroelectric power proj­ect at an existing dam or dams and

(2) preparing any application for a necessary license or other Federal, State, and local approval respecting such a project at an existing dam or dams and of participating in any administrative proceeding regarding any such application.

(b) Cancellation The Secretary may cancel the unpaid balance and any accrued interest on any loan granted pursuant to this section if he determines on the basis of the study that the small hydroelectric power project would not be technically or economically feasible.

*([Pub. L. 95–617, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/95/617/tIV/s402), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3154](/us/stat/92/3154).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Secretary, referred to in text, and the Commission, referred to in subsec. (a), mean the Secretary of Energy and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, respectively, see section 2602(3), (14) of this title.
