---
title: "§ 4401. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–325, § 2](/us/pl/97/325/s2), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1603](/us/stat/96/1603).)"
---
# § 4401. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose

##### § 4401. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose

(1) the United States, as a member of the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations, participated in development by that Commission of the Agreement on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage;

(2) the agreement requires that equipment involved in the international carriage of perishable foodstuffs be inspected, tested, and certified to specified standards;

(3) this chapter will make it possible for equipment in the United States to be inspected, tested, and certified in accordance with the agreement and the standards specified therein; and

(4) this chapter will improve the conditions for the movement of perishable foodstuffs in international carriage in equipment owned or operated by United States firms, which will serve to protect existing trade and promote expansion of trade in perishable foodstuffs, and will improve the sale of United States manufactured equipment for use in international carriage.

*([Pub. L. 97–325, § 2](/us/pl/97/325/s2), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1603](/us/stat/96/1603).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in pars. (3) and (4), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 97–325](/us/pl/97/325), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1603](/us/stat/96/1603), known as the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 97–325, § 1](/us/pl/97/325/s1), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1603](/us/stat/96/1603), provided: “That this Act [enacting this chapter and [section 2212c of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2212c), amending sections 5315 and 5316 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, repealing section 3 of Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1953, and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 2212c of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2212c)] may be cited as the ‘International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs Act’.”
