---
title: "§ 20925. Development and availability of registry management and website software"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20925"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20925"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 123](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s123), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 598](/us/stat/120/598).)"
---
# § 20925. Development and availability of registry management and website software

##### § 20925. Development and availability of registry management and website software

(a) Duty to develop and support The Attorney General shall, in consultation with the jurisdictions, develop and support software to enable jurisdictions to establish and operate uniform sex offender registries and Internet sites.

(b) Criteria The software should facilitate—

(1) immediate exchange of information among jurisdictions;

(2) public access over the Internet to appropriate information, including the number of registered sex offenders in each jurisdiction on a current basis;

(3) full compliance with the requirements of this subchapter; and

(4) communication of information to community notification program participants as required under [section 20923 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20923).

(c) Deadline The Attorney General shall make the first complete edition of this software available to jurisdictions within 2 years of July 27, 2006.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 123](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s123), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 598](/us/stat/120/598).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 590](/us/stat/120/590), known as the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16923 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16923), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
