---
title: "§ 11363. Protection of personally identifying information by victim service providers"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11363"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11363"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s407), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title I, § 1104](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tI/s1104), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/123/1677).)"
---
# § 11363. Protection of personally identifying information by victim service providers

##### § 11363. Protection of personally identifying information by victim service providers

In the course of awarding grants or implementing programs under this subchapter, the Secretary shall instruct any victim service provider that is a recipient or subgrantee not to disclose for purposes of the Homeless Management Information System any personally identifying information about any client. The Secretary may, after public notice and comment, require or ask such recipients and subgrantees to disclose for purposes of the Homeless Management Information System non-personally identifying information that has been de-identified, encrypted, or otherwise encoded. Nothing in this section shall be construed to supersede any provision of any Federal, State, or local law that provides greater protection than this subsection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s407), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title I, § 1104](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tI/s1104), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/123/1677).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 1104 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1104), which directed amendment of subtitle A of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act by adding this section at the end, was executed by adding this section at the end of subtitle A of title IV of [Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77) (this part), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of 18 months after May 20, 2009, or 3 months after publication of certain final regulations by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see [section 1503 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1503), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 11302 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11302).
