---
title: "§ 2301. Congressional findings and declaration of policy"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–288, § 2](/us/pl/90/288/s2), Apr. 16, 1968, [82 Stat. 93](/us/stat/82/93).)"
---
# § 2301. Congressional findings and declaration of policy

##### § 2301. Congressional findings and declaration of policy

Agricultural products are produced in the United States by many individual farmers and ranchers scattered throughout the various States of the Nation. Such products in fresh or processed form move in large part in the channels of interstate and foreign commerce, and such products which do not move in these channels directly burden or affect interstate commerce. The efficient production and marketing of agricultural products by farmers and ranchers is of vital concern to their welfare and to the general economy of the Nation. Because agricultural products are produced by numerous individual farmers, the marketing and bargaining position of individual farmers will be adversely affected unless they are free to join together voluntarily in cooperative organizations as authorized by law. Interference with this right is contrary to the public interest and adversely affects the free and orderly flow of goods in interstate and foreign commerce.

It is, therefore, declared to be the policy of Congress and the purpose of this chapter to establish standards of fair practices required of handlers in their dealings in agricultural products.

*([Pub. L. 90–288, § 2](/us/pl/90/288/s2), Apr. 16, 1968, [82 Stat. 93](/us/stat/82/93).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 90–288, § 1](/us/pl/90/288/s1), Apr. 16, 1968, [82 Stat. 93](/us/stat/82/93), provided: “That this Act [enacting this chapter] shall be known as the Agricultural Fair Practices Act of 1967.”
