---
title: "§ 3321. Disbursing authority in the executive branch"
identifier: "USC-T31-S3321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section3321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 949](/us/stat/96/949); [Pub. L. 103–355, title III, § 3067](/us/pl/103/355/tIII/s3067), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3337](/us/stat/108/3337); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title IX, § 913(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tIX/s913/a/1), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 410](/us/stat/110/410); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title X, § 1009(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tX/s1009/a/1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2633](/us/stat/110/2633); [Pub. L. 109–241, title IX, § 902"
---
# § 3321. Disbursing authority in the executive branch

##### § 3321. Disbursing authority in the executive branch

(a) Except as provided in this section or another law, only officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury designated by the Secretary of the Treasury as disbursing officials may disburse public money available for expenditure by an executive agency.

(b) For economy and efficiency, the Secretary may delegate the authority to disburse public money to officers and employees of other executive agencies.

(c) The head of each of the following executive agencies shall designate personnel of the agency as disbursing officials to disburse public money available for expenditure by the agency:

(1) United States Marshal’s Office.

(2) The Department of Defense.

(3) The Department of Homeland Security.11 So in original. The period probably should not appear. (with respect to public money available for expenditure by the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy).

(d) On request of the Secretary and with the approval of the head of an executive agency referred to in subsection (c) of this section, facilities of the agency may be used to assist in disbursing public money available for expenditure by another executive agency.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 949](/us/stat/96/949); [Pub. L. 103–355, title III, § 3067](/us/pl/103/355/tIII/s3067), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3337](/us/stat/108/3337); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title IX, § 913(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tIX/s913/a/1), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 410](/us/stat/110/410); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title X, § 1009(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tX/s1009/a/1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2633](/us/stat/110/2633); [Pub. L. 109–241, title IX, § 902(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/241/tIX/s902/b/1), July 11, 2006, [120 Stat. 566](/us/stat/120/566).)*

The section uses the defined term “executive agency” in section 102 of the revised title because the source provisions of this section are from a reorganization plan and executive orders that apply only to departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the executive branch of the United States Government.

In subsections (a) and (b), the words “Secretary of the Treasury” and “Secretary” are substituted for references to the Division of Disbursement and a Chief Disbursing Officer because of the source provisions restated in section 321(c) of the revised title. The words “public money” are substituted for “moneys of the United States” for consistency with the other source provisions restated in the section and for consistency in the chapter.

Subsection (a) is substituted for section 4(1st paragraph) of Executive Order No. 6166 to omit executed words.

In subsection (b), the words “may require” and “as the interests of” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “to establish local offices” are omitted because of the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury as the head of the Department of the Treasury and the authority of the Secretary under section 321 of the revised title. The text of section 4(last paragraph) is omitted as superseded by section 3325 of the revised title.

In subsection (c), the text of 31:492–1(1st sentence) is applied only to the listed agencies because of subsection (a) and Executive Order 6728. The text of 31:492–1(last sentence) is omitted as superseded by section 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 18 of 1950 (eff. July 1, 1950, [64 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/64/1270)) and by 40:490. In clause (1), the words after “disbursement by United States marshals” and before the last proviso in section 3 of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1940 (eff. June 30, 1940, [54 Stat. 1234](/us/stat/54/1234)) are omitted as unnecessary because of 28:571 and sections 3512(a)–(c) and 3513(a) of the revised title. In clause (2), the word “pay” is substituted for “salaries” in Executive Order No. 6728 for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code. The words “including the Marine Corps” are omitted as being included in “military departments”. The words “Panama Canal” are omitted because of the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977. The first proviso is omitted as unnecessary because of sections 3512 and 3513 of the revised title. Section 4 of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1940 is omitted because (1) the Post Office Department was abolished by the 1970 restatement of title 39, with all authority of the former Postmaster General being placed in the new United States Postal Service, (2) under 39:410 and 3604, the Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission were exempt from all provisions of law related to budget and funds, and (3) the Postal Savings System and its Board of Trustees were abolished under [section 5 of the Act of March 28, 1942](/us/act/1942-03-28/s5) (ch. 205, [56 Stat. 189](/us/stat/56/189)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 3321(a), (b) | 5:901(note). | Exec. Order No. 6166, June 10, 1933, § 4. |
| 3321(c), (d) | 31:492–1. | R.S. § 176; Sept. 6, 1966, Pub. L. 89–554, § 8(a), 80 Stat. 632; June 6, 1972, Pub. L. 92–310, § 231(a), 86 Stat. 209. |
|  | 5 App. | Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1940, eff. June 30, 1940, §§ 3, 4, 54 Stat. 1234. |
|  |  | Exec. Order No. 6728, May 29, 1934. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 109–241](/us/pl/109/241) substituted “Department of Homeland Security.” for “Department of Transportation”.

1996—Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “The Department of Defense (except for disbursements for departmental pay and expenses in the District of Columbia).”

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) added par. (3).

1994—Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 103–355](/us/pl/103/355) substituted “The Department of Defense” for “military departments of the Department of Defense”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Saving Federal Dollars Through Better Use of Government Purchase and Travel Cards

[Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XVIII](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tXVIII), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1814](/us/stat/131/1814), provided that: “SEC. 1801. SHORT TITLE.“This title may be cited as the ‘Saving Federal Dollars Through Better Use of Government Purchase and Travel Cards Act of 2017’. “SEC. 1802. DEFINITIONS.“In this title:“(1) Improper payment.—The term ‘improper payment’ has the meaning given the term in [former] section 2 of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002 [[Pub. L. 107–300](/us/pl/107/300)] ([former] [31 U.S.C. 3321](/us/usc/t31/s3321) note [see [33 U.S.C. 3351](/us/usc/t33/s3351)]). “(2) Questionable transaction.—The term ‘questionable transaction’ means a charge card transaction that from initial card data appears to be high risk and may therefore be improper due to non-compliance with applicable law, regulation or policy. “(3) Strategic sourcing.—The term ‘strategic sourcing’ means analyzing and modifying a Federal agency’s spending patterns to better leverage its purchasing power, reduce costs, and improve overall performance. “SEC. 1803. EXPANDED USE OF DATA ANALYTICS.“(a) Strategy.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 12, 2017], the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Administrator for General Services, shall develop a strategy to expand the use of data analytics in managing government purchase and travel charge card programs. These analytics may employ existing General Services Administration capabilities, and may be in conjunction with agencies’ capabilities, for the purpose of—“(1) identifying examples or patterns of questionable transactions and developing enhanced tools and methods for agency use in—“(A) identifying questionable purchase and travel card transactions; and “(B) recovering improper payments made with purchase and travel cards; “(2) identifying potential opportunities for agencies to further leverage administrative process streamlining and cost reduction from purchase and travel card use, including additional agency opportunities for card-based strategic sourcing; “(3) developing a set of purchase and travel card metrics and benchmarks for high-risk activities, which shall assist agencies in identifying potential emphasis areas for their purchase and travel card management and oversight activities, including those required by the Government Charge Card Abuse Prevention Act of 2012 ([Public Law 112–194](/us/pl/112/194)) [see Short Title of 2012 Amendment note set out under [section 101 of Title 41](/us/usc/t41/s101), Public Contracts]; and “(4) developing a plan, which may be based on existing capabilities, to create a library of analytics tools and data sources for use by Federal agencies (including inspectors general of those agencies). “SEC. 1804. GUIDANCE ON IMPROVING INFORMATION SHARING TO CURB IMPROPER PAYMENTS.“(a) In General.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 12, 2017], the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Administrator of General Services and the interagency charge card data management group established under section 1805, shall issue guidance on improving information sharing by government agencies for the purposes of section 1803(a)(1). “(b) Elements.—The guidance issued under subsection (a) shall—“(1) require relevant officials at Federal agencies to identify high-risk activities and communicate that information to the appropriate management levels within the agencies; “(2) require that appropriate officials at Federal agencies review the reports issued by charge card-issuing banks on questionable transaction activity (such as purchase and travel card pre-suspension and suspension reports, delinquency reports, and exception reports), including transactions that occur with high-risk activities, and suspicious timing or amounts of cash withdrawals or advances; “(3) provide for the appropriate sharing of information related to potential questionable transactions, fraud schemes, and high-risk activities with the General Services Administration and the appropriate officials in Federal agencies; “(4) consider the recommendations made by Inspectors General or the best practices Inspectors General have identified; and “(5) include other requirements determined appropriate by the Director for the purposes of carrying out this title. “SEC. 1805. INTERAGENCY CHARGE CARD DATA MANAGEMENT GROUP.“(a) Establishment.—The Administrator of General Services and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall establish a purchase and travel charge card data management group to develop and share best practices for the purposes described in section 1803(a). “(b) Elements.—The best practices developed under subsection (a) shall—“(1) cover rules, edits, and task order or contract modifications related to charge card-issuing banks; “(2) include the review of accounts payable information and purchase and travel card transaction data of agencies for the purpose of identifying potential strategic sourcing and other additional opportunities (such as recurring payments, utility payments, and grant payments) for which the charge cards or related payment products could be used as a payment method; and “(3) include other best practices as determined by the Administrator and Director. “(c) Membership.—The purchase and travel charge card data management group shall meet regularly as determined by the co-chairs, for a duration of three years, and include those agencies as described in section 2 of the Government Charge Card Abuse Prevention Act of 2012 ([Public Law 112–194](/us/pl/112/194)) [enacting [section 1909 of Title 41](/us/usc/t41/s1909), Public Contracts and provisions set out as a note under [section 1909 of Title 41](/us/usc/t41/s1909) and amending [section 2784 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2784), Armed Forces] and others identified by the Administrator and Director. “SEC. 1806. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.“(a) General Services Administration Report.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 12, 2017], the Administrator for General Services shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of this title, including the metrics used in determining whether the analytic and benchmarking efforts have reduced, or contributed to the reduction of, questionable transactions or improper payments as well as improved utilization of card-based payment products. “(b) Agency Reports and Consolidated Report to Congress.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the head of each Federal agency described in section 2 of the Government Charge Card Abuse Prevention Act of 2012 ([Public Law 112–194](/us/pl/112/194)) shall submit a report to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget on that agency’s activities to implement this title. “(c) Office of Management and Budget Report to Congress.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives a consolidated report of agency activities to implement this title, which may be included as part of another report submitted by the Director to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives. “(d) Report on Additional Savings Opportunities.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives a report identifying and exploring further potential savings opportunities for government agencies under the Federal charge card programs. This report may be combined with the report required under subsection (a).”

#### Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics

[Pub. L. 114–186](/us/pl/114/186), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 546](/us/stat/130/546), known as the “Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Act of 2015”, which established financial and administrative controls relating to fraud and improper payments, including the establishment of a working group, was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–117, § 3(a)(4)](/us/pl/116/117/s3/a/4), Mar. 2, 2020, [134 Stat. 133](/us/stat/134/133).

#### Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement

[Pub. L. 112–248](/us/pl/112/248), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2390](/us/stat/126/2390), as amended by [Pub. L. 113–67, div. A, title II, § 204(c)](/us/pl/113/67/dA/tII/s204/c), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1181](/us/stat/127/1181); [Pub. L. 114–109](/us/pl/114/109), §§ 2–4, Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2225–2227](/us/stat/129/2225-2227); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(53)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/53), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4349](/us/stat/136/4349), known as the “Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012”, which set out to improve identification, prevention, and recovery of improper payments, including through the establishment of the Do Not Pay Initiative, was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–117, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/116/117/s3/a/3), Mar. 2, 2020, [134 Stat. 133](/us/stat/134/133).

#### Determinations of Agency Readiness for Opinion on Internal Control

[Pub. L. 111–204, § 2(g)](/us/pl/111/204/s2/g), July 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/124/2228), which provided for determinations of agency readiness for opinions on internal control, was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–117, § 3(a)(2)](/us/pl/116/117/s3/a/2), Mar. 2, 2020, [134 Stat. 133](/us/stat/134/133).

#### Recovery Audits

[Pub. L. 111–204, § 2(h)](/us/pl/111/204/s2/h), July 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/124/2228), as amended by [Pub. L. 112–248, § 3(c)(1)](/us/pl/112/248/s3/c/1), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2392](/us/stat/126/2392), which provided that certain agencies would conduct recovery audits and set out terms and procedures for the audits, was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–117, § 3(a)(2)](/us/pl/116/117/s3/a/2), Mar. 2, 2020, [134 Stat. 133](/us/stat/134/133).

#### Compliance

[Pub. L. 111–204, § 3](/us/pl/111/204/s3), July 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/124/2232), as amended by [Pub. L. 112–248, § 3(c)(2)](/us/pl/112/248/s3/c/2), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2392](/us/stat/126/2392), which provided for compliance procedures and standards related to the recovery of improper payments, was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–117, § 3(a)(2)](/us/pl/116/117/s3/a/2), Mar. 2, 2020, [134 Stat. 133](/us/stat/134/133).

#### Improper Payments

[Pub. L. 107–300](/us/pl/107/300), Nov. 26, 2002, [116 Stat. 2350](/us/stat/116/2350), as amended by [Pub. L. 111–204, § 2(a)](/us/pl/111/204/s2/a)–(f), July 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 2224–2228](/us/stat/124/2224-2228); [Pub. L. 112–248](/us/pl/112/248), §§ 3(a), (4), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2390](/us/stat/126/2390), 2392, known as the “Improper Payments Information Act of 2002”, which established greater estimation and oversight of improper payment by Federal agencies, was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–117, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/117/s3/a/1), Mar. 2, 2020, [134 Stat. 133](/us/stat/134/133). See, generally, subchapter IV of this chapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 13681. Improving the Security of Consumer Financial Transactions

Ex. Ord. No. 13681, Oct. 17, 2014, 79 F.R. 63491, provided:

Given that identity crimes, including credit, debit, and other payment card fraud, continue to be a risk to U.S. economic activity, and given the economic consequences of data breaches, the United States must take further action to enhance the security of data in the financial marketplace. While the U.S. Government’s credit, debit, and other payment card programs already include protections against fraud, the Government must further strengthen the security of consumer data and encourage the adoption of enhanced safeguards nationwide in a manner that protects privacy and confidentiality while maintaining an efficient and innovative financial system.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to improve the security of consumer financial transactions in both the private and public sectors, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. *Secure Government Payments*. In order to strengthen data security and thereby better protect citizens doing business with the Government, executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall, as soon as possible, transition payment processing terminals and credit, debit, and other payment cards to employ enhanced security features, including chip-and-PIN technology. In determining enhanced security features to employ, agencies shall consider relevant voluntary consensus standards and specifications, as appropriate, consistent with the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 and Office of Management and Budget Circular A–119.

(a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall take necessary steps to ensure that payment processing terminals acquired by agencies through the Department of the Treasury or through alternative means authorized by the Department of the Treasury have enhanced security features. No later than January 1, 2015, all new payment processing terminals acquired in these ways shall include hardware necessary to support such enhanced security features. By January 1, 2015, the Department of the Treasury shall develop a plan for agencies to install enabling software that supports enhanced security features.

(b) The Administrator of General Services shall take necessary steps to ensure that credit, debit, and other payment cards provided through General Services Administration (GSA) contracts have enhanced security features, and shall begin replacing credit, debit, and other payment cards without enhanced security features no later than January 1, 2015.

(c) The Secretary of the Treasury shall take necessary steps to ensure that Direct Express prepaid debit cards for administering Government benefits have enhanced security features, and by January 1, 2015, the Department of the Treasury shall develop a plan for the replacement of Direct Express prepaid debit cards without enhanced security features.

(d) By January 1, 2015, other agencies with credit, debit, and other payment card programs shall provide to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) plans for ensuring that their credit, debit, and other payment cards have enhanced security features.

(e) Nothing in this order shall be construed to preclude agencies from adopting additional standards or upgrading to more effective technology and standards to improve the security of consumer financial transactions as technologies and threats evolve.

Sec. 2. *Improved Identity Theft Remediation*. To reduce the burden on consumers who have been victims of identity theft, including by substantially reducing the amount of time necessary for a consumer to remediate typical incidents:

(a) by February 15, 2015, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall issue guidance to promote regular submissions, as appropriate and permitted by law, by Federal law enforcement agencies of compromised credentials to the National Cyber-Forensics and Training Alliance’s Internet Fraud Alert System;

(b) the Department of Justice, the Department of Commerce, and the Social Security Administration shall identify all publicly available agency resources for victims of identity theft, and shall provide to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) information about such resources no later than March 15, 2015, with updates thereafter as necessary. These agencies shall work in consultation with the FTC to streamline these resources and consolidate them wherever possible at the FTC’s public Web site, IdentityTheft.gov; and

(c) OMB and GSA shall assist the FTC in enhancing the functionality of IdentityTheft.gov, including by coordinating with the credit bureaus to streamline the reporting and remediation process with credit bureaus’ systems to the extent feasible, and in making the enhanced site available to the public by May 15, 2015.

Sec. 3. *Securing Federal Transactions Online*. To help ensure that sensitive data are shared only with the appropriate person or people, within 90 days of the date of this order, the National Security Council staff, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and OMB shall present to the President a plan, consistent with the guidance set forth in the 2011 National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace, to ensure that all agencies making personal data accessible to citizens through digital applications require the use of multiple factors of authentication and an effective identity proofing process, as appropriate. Within 18 months of the date of this order, relevant agencies shall complete any required implementation steps set forth in the plan prepared pursuant to this section.

Sec. 4. *General Provisions*. (a) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

#### Ex. Ord. No. 14249. Protecting America’s Bank Account Against Fraud, Waste, and Abuse

Ex. Ord. No. 14249, Mar. 25, 2025, 90 F.R. 14011, provided:

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. *Purpose*. Promoting financial integrity and operational efficiency are critical responsibilities of the Federal Government. The Federal Government processes trillions of dollars annually in disbursements to individuals, businesses, and organizations, and in receipts from taxes, fees, and other payments to finance daily and long-term Government operations. These transactions flow into and out of the United States General Fund (General Fund), which might be thought of as America’s bank account. In Fiscal Year 2024, $33.9 trillion flowed into the General Fund and $33.6 trillion flowed out of the account, including $5.87 trillion (less net interest) in benefits, grants, loans, vendor payments, and other disbursements.

The Department of the Treasury is the largest financial payment manager of the Federal Government and is responsible for safeguarding the General Fund, but lacks sufficient controls to track transactions flowing through the General Fund to determine if they were proper. To enforce sufficient controls and ensure accountability to American taxpayers, the Department of the Treasury requires financial information from executive departments and agencies (agencies) beyond what they currently provide.

Financial fraud threatens the integrity of Federal programs and undermines trust in Government. Agencies’ past underinvestment in technology and longstanding challenges with access to accurate data has prevented them from more fully safeguarding taxpayer dollars against fraud and improper payments. The Government Accountability Office estimates that the Federal Government loses between $233 and $521 billion annually to fraud.

In addition to being an efficient steward of taxpayer funds, the Federal Government, on behalf of the American public, must seek to ensure that financial information is accurate and that there is transparency with respect to how taxpayer dollars are being used. Today, Federal funds are disbursed both by the Department of the Treasury and various Federal Government entities that are authorized to issue their own disbursements known as Non-Treasury Disbursing Offices (NTDOs). In Fiscal Year 2024, NTDOs were estimated to be responsible for 181 million payments totaling over $1.5 trillion (approximately 22 percent of all Federal Government dollars disbursed). This fragmentation of disbursing authority, together with the proliferation of non-standard financial management systems across the Federal Government, leads to expensive, disjointed, and duplicative financial reporting, lack of financial traceability, complicated financial management, opacity, increased operational risks, and decreased ability of the Department of the Treasury to provide centralized oversight.

This order promotes financial integrity by enabling the Department of the Treasury to more easily conduct improper payment and fraud prevention screening prior to disbursing funds on behalf of agencies. This order increases transparency and accountability by requiring agencies to provide the Department of the Treasury with the information needed to track transactions through the General Fund in greater detail. This order also promotes operational efficiency by returning disbursing functions to the Department of the Treasury when possible and consolidating and standardizing core Federal financial systems.

Sec. 2. *Policy*. It is the policy of the United States to defend against financial fraud and improper payments, increase transparency and accountability around the Federal Government’s operations and financial condition, increase efficiency, reduce costs, and enhance the security of Federal payments.

Sec. 3. *Treasury Verification of Agency Payments Information*. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Director), shall update guidance and enhance systems to ensure that all payments made by the Department of the Treasury on behalf of agencies pursuant to the Secretary of the Treasury’s disbursing authority, including [31 U.S.C. 3321](/us/usc/t31/s3321), are subject to pre-certification verification processes established by the Secretary of the Treasury and conducted by agencies and the Department of the Treasury for the purposes of defending against financial fraud and improper payments, to the greatest extent permitted by law. Such guidance shall set forth guidelines for compliance with the Do Not Pay Working System as described in [31 U.S.C. 3351](/us/usc/t31/s3351) et seq., and such other payment, account, and payee validation programs and services that the Secretary of the Treasury and the OMB Director determine to be beneficial for reducing financial fraud and improper payments.

(b) In accordance with [31 U.S.C. 3354](/us/usc/t31/s3354), the heads of all agencies shall cooperate with the Secretary of the Treasury to fulfill their obligations to determine payment or award eligibility through pre-certification and pre-award procedures, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, including pursuant to subsection (a) of this section and section 4 of this order to prevent fraud and improper payments.

(c) The Secretary of the Treasury is directed to minimize administrative barriers to accessing and using data to prevent fraud and improper payments by exercising the authority in [31 U.S.C. 3351](/us/usc/t31/s3351) et seq. to waive the requirements of [5 U.S.C. 552(o)](/us/usc/t5/s552/o) [probably means [5 U.S.C. 552a](/us/usc/t5/s552a)(*o*)], in consultation with the OMB Director, in any case or class of cases for computer matching activities, to the extent permissible by law.

(d) Within 90 days of the date of this order [Mar. 25, 2025], agency heads shall review and modify, as applicable, their relevant system of records notices under the Privacy Act of 1974 [[5 U.S.C. 552a](/us/usc/t5/s552a)] to include a “routine use” that allows for the disclosure of records to the Department of the Treasury for the purposes of identifying, preventing, or recouping fraud and improper payments, to the extent permissible by law.

(e) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the OMB Director, shall issue guidance to agency heads on the circumstances in which agency heads, to the extent permissible by law, may provide the Secretary of the Treasury with access to data necessary for the purposes of detecting and preventing fraud and improper payments, as well as data for payment information verification (and not, for example, data such as health records).

Sec. 4. *Implementation and Compliance of Payment Verification*. (a) Agency heads, through designated agency officials (Certifying Officers or COs), who are responsible for verifying that disbursements made by the Federal Government are legal, proper, and correct, and for performing the duties in [31 U.S.C. 3528](/us/usc/t31/s3528), shall comply with the disbursement requirements and instructions, including pre-certification requirements, published by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall consider, as appropriate, issuing instructions to agencies to enforce the following pre-certification criteria for disbursement requests submitted by COs (Vouchers) before they are certified for payment by the CO:

(i) Funds are available at the time the obligation is incurred. If an obligation is incurred when funds are not available, then the CO shall not certify the payment.

(ii) The amount of the payment and the name of the payee on the Voucher are correct, in conformance with the Department of the Treasury’s prescribed standard format.

(iii) A proper Social Security Number, Taxpayer Identification Number, Employer Identification Number, Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, or Payee ID Number is provided for each payee on the Voucher, as applicable.

(iv) The appropriation or fund from which the payment will be made is available for the purpose set forth in the Voucher and indicated with the appropriate Treasury Account Symbol/Business Event Type Code.

(v) Payees are not deceased individuals, to the greatest extent permitted by law.

(vi) The account number provided on the Voucher is held at a financial institution and is open, valid, and belongs to the payee or valid designee of payee.

(vii) Contracts or agreements are referenced on the Voucher by providing the contract number, referred to as the Procurement Instrument Identifier, where applicable.

(viii) Financial assistance awards (non-aggregate) are referenced on the Voucher by providing the award number, referred to as the Federal Award Identification Number, where applicable.

(ix) For summary schedules, the payments on the Voucher are submitted in conformance with the Department of the Treasury prescribed standard formats for such schedules.

(c) Agency heads shall submit payment files other than with respect to same-day payments to the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary’s designee with sufficient lead time prior to the date of disbursement as determined by the Department of the Treasury and provided in the requirements and instructions issued pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section, to allow for fraud and improper payment screening, to the extent permissible by law. With respect to same-day payments, agency heads shall submit payment files to the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary’s designee as much in advance as reasonably practicable.

(d) In issuing requirements and instructions pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consider whether it would be appropriate to provide that the Department of the Treasury’s Chief Disbursing Officer return to the relevant agency for reconciliation any payments that do not pass the pre-certification verification processes established pursuant to section 3(a) of this order and notify the designated CO.

(e) The Secretary of the Treasury shall include in the guidance issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, or in other regulations or guidance, a transparent process for agencies to request exemptions from some or all of the payment verification requirements for specific payments or categories of payments.

Sec. 5. *Core Financial System Consolidation*. (a) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the OMB Director shall issue guidance that directs agencies described in [31 U.S.C. 901(b)](/us/usc/t31/s901/b) (CFO Act agencies) to consolidate their core financial systems.

(b) As soon as practicable, but not later than 180 days of the date of this order, the OMB Director, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall issue guidance directing all non-CFO Act agencies to consolidate transactional financial management services under a single provider approved by the Department of the Treasury.

(c) As soon as practicable, all heads of CFO Act agencies shall use standard financial management solutions available through the Financial Management Marketplace, administered by the Financial Management Quality Service Management Office.

(d) Agency heads shall ensure that core financial systems comply with Federal accounting and financial reporting standards and relevant regulations, orders, guidance documents, policy statements, and other agency actions published by the Department of the Treasury from time to time.

Sec. 6. *Reduction of NTDOs*. (a) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury shall assess whether to maintain disbursing authority that it has delegated to agencies pursuant to [31 U.S.C. 3321(b)](/us/usc/t31/s3321/b) and issue notices to revoke such delegations, as appropriate, in accordance with applicable law.

(b) The heads of agencies with disbursing authority under [31 U.S.C. 3321(c)](/us/usc/t31/s3321/c), including the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Attorney General (but excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, the Supreme Court and other entities of the Federal Government outside the Executive Branch) will work with the Secretary of the Treasury to delegate the performance of their disbursing activities, other than with respect to classified payments, to the Department of the Treasury’s Chief Disbursing Officer in accordance with applicable law.

(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) or (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may continue to delegate disbursing authority to NTDOs at other agencies when doing so would align with significant Government priorities. Any remaining NTDOs are required to report daily to the Department of the Treasury’s centralized accounting and reporting system in accordance with then-current Department of the Treasury guidance and applicable law.

(d) The Secretary of the Treasury shall develop a plan to centralize and manage all payments previously disbursed by NTDOs, ensuring seamless continuity of Government payments.

(e) The Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with agency heads, shall establish a transition plan for agencies currently operating as NTDOs, including staffing adjustments, system integrations, and legal or regulatory modifications necessary for full consolidation.

(f) The heads of agencies with disbursing authority delegated to the agency under [33 U.S.C. 3321(b)](/us/usc/t33/s3321/b) shall decommission all internal payment systems and use the Department of the Treasury’s disbursement systems, except and to the extent authorized by the Department of the Treasury or otherwise required by applicable law.

Sec. 7. *Reporting and Implementation Requirements*. (a) The heads of all agencies shall submit a compliance plan to the OMB Director within 90 days of the date of this order detailing their strategy for:

(i) transitioning disbursing authority to the Department of the Treasury, as applicable and as contemplated by this order;

(ii) updating and integrating systems with Department of the Treasury platforms;

(iii) procedures to verify payment information as contemplated by this order; and

(iv) transmitting information associated with improper payments to the Department of the Treasury in accordance with standards and reporting specifications established by the OMB Director in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury as contemplated by this order.

(b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an implementation report to the President through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy within 180 days of the date of this order detailing progress on the matters set forth in this order.

(c) The Secretary of the Treasury and agency heads shall take all necessary steps to protect classified information and systems, as well as personally identifiable information and tax return information, through the implementation of this order.

Sec. 8. *General Provisions*. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
