---
title: "§ 2035. Simplified supplemental nutrition assistance program"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2035"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2035"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–525, § 26](/us/pl/88/525/s26), as added [Pub. L. 104–193, title VIII, § 854(a)](/us/pl/104/193/tVIII/s854/a), Aug. 22, 1996, [110 Stat. 2340](/us/stat/110/2340); amended [Pub. L. 110–234, title IV](/us/pl/110/234/tIV), §§ 4001(b), 4002(a)(12), 4115(b)(16), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1092](/us/stat/122/1092), 1095, 1109; [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title IV, §§ 4001(b), 4002(a)(12), 4115(b)(16), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 1853, 1857, 1870; ["
---
# § 2035. Simplified supplemental nutrition assistance program

##### § 2035. Simplified supplemental nutrition assistance program

(a) “Federal costs” defined In this section, the term “Federal costs” does not include any Federal costs incurred under [section 2026 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2026).

(b) Election Subject to subsection (d), a State may elect to carry out a simplified supplemental nutrition assistance program (referred to in this section as a “Program”), statewide or in a political subdivision of the State, in accordance with this section.

(c) Operation of Program If a State elects to carry out a Program, within the State or a political subdivision of the State—

(1) a household in which no members receive assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.) may not participate in the Program;

(2) a household in which all members receive assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.) shall automatically be eligible to participate in the Program;

(3) if approved by the Secretary, a household in which 1 or more members but not all members receive assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.) may be eligible to participate in the Program; and

(4) subject to subsection (f), benefits under the Program shall be determined under rules and procedures established by the State under—

(A) a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.);

(B) the supplemental nutrition assistance program; or

(C) a combination of a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.) and the supplemental nutrition assistance program.

(d) Approval of Program

(1) State plan A State agency may not operate a Program unless the Secretary approves a State plan for the operation of the Program under paragraph (2).

(2) Approval of plan The Secretary shall approve any State plan to carry out a Program if the Secretary determines that the plan—

(A) complies with this section; and

(B) contains sufficient documentation that the plan will not increase Federal costs for any fiscal year.

(e) Increased Federal costs

(1) Determination

(A) In general The Secretary shall determine whether a Program being carried out by a State agency is increasing Federal costs under this chapter.

(B) No excluded households In making a determination under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall not require the State agency to collect or report any information on households not included in the Program.

(C) Alternative accounting periods The Secretary may approve the request of a State agency to apply alternative accounting periods to determine if Federal costs do not exceed the Federal costs had the State agency not elected to carry out the Program.

(2) Notification If the Secretary determines that the Program has increased Federal costs under this chapter for any fiscal year or any portion of any fiscal year, the Secretary shall notify the State not later than 30 days after the Secretary makes the determination under paragraph (1).

(3) Enforcement

(A) Corrective action Not later than 90 days after the date of a notification under paragraph (2), the State shall submit a plan for approval by the Secretary for prompt corrective action that is designed to prevent the Program from increasing Federal costs under this chapter.

(B) Termination If the State does not submit a plan under subparagraph (A) or carry out a plan approved by the Secretary, the Secretary shall terminate the approval of the State agency operating the Program and the State agency shall be ineligible to operate a future Program.

(f) Rules and procedures

(1) In general In operating a Program, a State or political subdivision of a State may follow the rules and procedures established by the State or political subdivision under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.) or under the supplemental nutrition assistance program.

(2) Standardized deductions In operating a Program, a State or political subdivision of a State may standardize the deductions provided under [section 2014(e) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2014/e). In developing the standardized deduction, the State shall consider the work expenses, dependent care costs, and shelter costs of participating households.

(3) Requirements In operating a Program, a State or political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of—

(A) subsections (a) through (f) of [section 2016 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2016);

(B) [section 2017(a) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2017/a) (except that the income of a household may be determined under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.));

(C) subsections (b) and (d) of [section 2017 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2017);

(D) subsections (a), (c), (d), and (n) of [section 2020 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2020);

(E) paragraphs (8), (12), (15), (17), (18), (22), and (23) of [section 2020(e) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2020/e);

(F) [section 2020(e)(10) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2020/e/10) (or a comparable requirement established by the State under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.)); and

(G) [section 2025 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2025).

(4) Limitation on eligibility Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a household may not receive benefits under this section as a result of the eligibility of the household under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t42/s601) et seq.), unless the Secretary determines that any household with income above 130 percent of the poverty guidelines is not eligible for the program.

*([Pub. L. 88–525, § 26](/us/pl/88/525/s26), as added [Pub. L. 104–193, title VIII, § 854(a)](/us/pl/104/193/tVIII/s854/a), Aug. 22, 1996, [110 Stat. 2340](/us/stat/110/2340); amended [Pub. L. 110–234, title IV](/us/pl/110/234/tIV), §§ 4001(b), 4002(a)(12), 4115(b)(16), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1092](/us/stat/122/1092), 1095, 1109; [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title IV, §§ 4001(b), 4002(a)(12), 4115(b)(16), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 1853, 1857, 1870; [Pub. L. 113–79, title IV, § 4030](/us/pl/113/79/tIV/s4030)(*l*), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 814](/us/stat/128/814); [Pub. L. 115–334, title IV, § 4022(9)](/us/pl/115/334/tIV/s4022/9), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4654](/us/stat/132/4654).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsecs. (c) and (f), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Part A of title IV of the Act is classified generally to part A (§ 601 et seq.) of subchapter IV of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) were repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334) substituted “carry out a simplified supplemental nutrition assistance program” for “carry out a Simplified Food Stamp Program”.

2014—Subsec. (f)(3)(C). [Pub. L. 113–79](/us/pl/113/79) substituted “subsections” for “subsection”.

2008—[Pub. L. 110–246, § 4002(a)(12)(A)](/us/pl/110/246/s4002/a/12/A), substituted “Simplified supplemental nutrition assistance program” for “Simplified Food Stamp Program” in section catchline.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4002(a)(12)(B)](/us/pl/110/246/s4002/a/12/B), which directed amendment of subsec. (b) by substituting “simplified supplemental nutrition assistance program” for “simplified food stamp program”, could not be executed because the term “simplified food stamp program” did not appear.

Subsec. (c)(4)(B), (C). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4001(b)](/us/pl/110/246/s4001/b), substituted “supplemental nutrition assistance program” for “food stamp program”.

Subsec. (f)(1). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4001(b)](/us/pl/110/246/s4001/b), substituted “supplemental nutrition assistance program” for “food stamp program”.

Subsec. (f)(3)(A). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4115(b)(16)(A)](/us/pl/110/246/s4115/b/16/A), substituted “subsections (a) through (f)” for “subsections (a) through (g)”.

Subsec. (f)(3)(E). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4115(b)(16)(B)](/us/pl/110/246/s4115/b/16/B), substituted “(15), (17), (18), (22), and (23)” for “(16), (18), (20), (24), and (25)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment of this section and repeal of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234), except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 8701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8701).

Amendment by sections 4001(b), 4002(a)(12), and 4115(b)(16) of [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective Oct. 1, 2008, see [section 4407 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4407), set out as a note under [section 1161 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1161), The Congress.
