---
title: "§ 5711. Bond"
identifier: "USC-T26-S5711"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section5711"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 711](/us/stat/68A/711); [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 202](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s202), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1421](/us/stat/72/1421); [Pub. L. 89–44, title V, § 502(b)(6)](/us/pl/89/44/tV/s502/b/6), June 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 151](/us/stat/79/151); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)"
---
# § 5711. Bond

##### § 5711. Bond

(a) When required Every person, before commencing business as a manufacturer of tobacco products or cigarette papers and tubes, or as an export warehouse proprietor, shall file such bond, conditioned upon compliance with this chapter and regulations issued thereunder, in such form, amount, and manner as the Secretary shall by regulation prescribe. A new or additional bond may be required whenever the Secretary considers such action necessary for the protection of the revenue.

(b) Approval or disapproval No person shall engage in such business until he receives notice of approval of such bond. A bond may be disapproved, upon notice to the principal on the bond, if the Secretary determines that the bond is not adequate to protect the revenue.

(c) Cancellation Any bond filed hereunder may be canceled, upon notice to the principal on the bond, whenever the Secretary determines that the bond no longer adequately protects the revenue.

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 711](/us/stat/68A/711); [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 202](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s202), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1421](/us/stat/72/1421); [Pub. L. 89–44, title V, § 502(b)(6)](/us/pl/89/44/tV/s502/b/6), June 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 151](/us/stat/79/151); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1976—[Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary” wherever appearing.

1965—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 89–44](/us/pl/89/44) struck out reference to dealers in tobacco materials.

1958—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859) included export warehouse proprietors, and substituted “manufacturer of tobacco products or cigarette papers and tubes” for “manufacturer of articles”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1965 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 89–44](/us/pl/89/44) applicable on and after January 1, 1966, see [section 701(d) of Pub. L. 89–44](/us/pl/89/44/s701/d), set out as a note under [section 5701 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5701).

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859) effective Sept. 3, 1958, see [section 210(a)(1) of Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859/s210/a/1), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 5001 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5001).

#### Transitional Rule

[Pub. L. 111–3, title VII, § 702(g)](/us/pl/111/3/tVII/s702/g), Feb. 4, 2009, [123 Stat. 111](/us/stat/123/111), provided that: “Any person who— “(1) on April 1, 2009[,] is engaged in business as a manufacturer of processed tobacco or as an importer of processed tobacco, and “(2) before the end of the 90-day period beginning on such date, submits an application under subchapter B of chapter 52 of such Code [this subchapter] to engage in such business, may, notwithstanding such subchapter B, continue to engage in such business pending final action on such application. Pending such final action, all provisions of such chapter 52 [this chapter] shall apply to such applicant in the same manner and to the same extent as if such applicant were a holder of a permit under such chapter 52 to engage in such business.”
