---
title: "§ 7505. Repayment for failure to satisfy requirements of agreement"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–163, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/111/163/tIII/s302/a), May 5, 2010, [124 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/124/1148).)"
---
# § 7505. Repayment for failure to satisfy requirements of agreement

##### § 7505. Repayment for failure to satisfy requirements of agreement

(a) In General.— An individual who receives educational assistance under the scholarship program under this chapter shall repay to the Secretary an amount equal to the unearned portion of such assistance if the individual fails to satisfy the requirements of the agreement entered into under [section 7504 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7504), except in circumstances authorized by the Secretary.

(b) Amount of Repayment.— The Secretary shall establish, by regulations, procedures for determining the amount of the repayment required under this section and the circumstances under which an exception to the required repayment may be granted.

(c) Waiver or Suspension of Compliance.— The Secretary shall prescribe regulations providing for the waiver or suspension of any obligation of an individual for service or payment under this chapter (or an agreement under this chapter) whenever—

(1) noncompliance by the individual is due to circumstances beyond the control of the individual; or

(2) the Secretary determines that the waiver or suspension of compliance is in the best interest of the United States.

(d) Obligation as Debt to United States.— An obligation to repay the Secretary under this section is, for all purposes, a debt owed the United States. A discharge in bankruptcy under title 11 does not discharge a person from such debt if the discharge order is entered less than five years after the date of the termination of the agreement or contract on which the debt is based.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–163, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/111/163/tIII/s302/a), May 5, 2010, [124 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/124/1148).)*
