---
title: "§ 2729. State Department records of overseas deaths of United States citizens from nonnatural causes"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2729"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2729"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 841](/us/act/1956-08-01/ch841), title I, § 57, as added [Pub. L. 107–228, div. A, title II, § 204](/us/pl/107/228/dA/tII/s204), Sept. 30, 2002, [116 Stat. 1363](/us/stat/116/1363).)"
---
# § 2729. State Department records of overseas deaths of United States citizens from nonnatural causes

##### § 2729. State Department records of overseas deaths of United States citizens from nonnatural causes

(a) Collection of information The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, collect, with respect to each foreign country, the following information with respect to each United States citizen who dies in that country from a nonnatural cause on or after September 30, 2002:

(1) The date of death.

(2) The locality where the death occurred (including the state or province and municipality, if available).

(3) The cause of death, including information on the circumstances of the death, and including, if the death resulted from an act of terrorism, a statement disclosing that information.

(4) Such other information as the Secretary shall prescribe.

(b) Database The Secretary shall establish and maintain a database containing the information collected under subsection (a).

(c) Public availability of information Beginning three months after September 30, 2002, the Secretary, shall make available, on a country-by-country basis, on the Internet website of the Department’s Bureau of Consular Affairs, the information from the database described in subsection (b) with respect to deaths occurring since September 30, 2002, or occurring during the preceding three calendar years, whichever period is shorter. The information shall be updated at least every six months.

*([Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 841](/us/act/1956-08-01/ch841), title I, § 57, as added [Pub. L. 107–228, div. A, title II, § 204](/us/pl/107/228/dA/tII/s204), Sept. 30, 2002, [116 Stat. 1363](/us/stat/116/1363).)*
