---
title: "§ 1602. Congressional declaration of policies"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1602"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1602"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–479, § 3](/us/pl/96/479/s3), Oct. 21, 1980, [94 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/94/2305); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VII, § 7002(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVII/s7002/b/1), (m)(2), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2563](/us/stat/134/2563), 2576.)"
---
# § 1602. Congressional declaration of policies

##### § 1602. Congressional declaration of policies

(1) identify materials needs and assist in the pursuit of measures that would assure the availability of materials critical to commerce, the economy, and national security;

(2) establish a mechanism for the coordination and evaluation of Federal materials programs, including those involving research and development so as to complement related efforts by the private sector as well as other domestic and international agencies and organizations;

(3) establish an analytical and forecasting capability for identifying critical mineral demand, supply, and other factors to allow informed actions to be taken to avoid supply shortages, mitigate price volatility, and prepare for demand growth and other market shifts;

(4) promote a vigorous, comprehensive, and coordinated program of materials research and development consistent with the policies and priorities set forth in the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 ([42 U.S.C. 6601](/us/usc/t42/s6601) et seq.);

(5) promote cooperative research and development programs with other nations for the equitable and frugal use of materials and energy;

(6) promote and encourage private enterprise in the development of economically sound and stable domestic materials industries;

(7) facilitate the availability, development, and environmentally responsible production of domestic resources to meet national material or critical mineral needs;

(8) avoid duplication of effort, prevent unnecessary paperwork, and minimize delays in the administration of applicable laws (including regulations) and the issuance of permits and authorizations necessary to explore for, develop, and produce critical minerals and to construct critical mineral manufacturing facilities in accordance with applicable environmental and land management laws;

(9) strengthen—

(A) educational and research capabilities at not lower than the secondary school level; and

(B) workforce training for exploration and development of critical minerals and critical mineral manufacturing;

(10) bolster international cooperation through technology transfer, information sharing, and other means;

(11) promote the efficient production, use, and recycling of critical minerals;

(12) develop alternatives to critical minerals; and

(13) establish contingencies for the production of, or access to, critical minerals for which viable sources do not exist within the United States.

*([Pub. L. 96–479, § 3](/us/pl/96/479/s3), Oct. 21, 1980, [94 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/94/2305); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VII, § 7002(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVII/s7002/b/1), (m)(2), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2563](/us/stat/134/2563), 2576.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976, referred to in par. (4), is [Pub. L. 94–282](/us/pl/94/282), May 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 459](/us/stat/90/459), which is classified principally to chapter 79 (§ 6601 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6601 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s6601) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2020—[Pub. L. 116–260, § 7002(m)(2)](/us/pl/116/260/s7002/m/2), in introductory provisions, substituted “It” for “The Congress declares that it” and “Implementation” for “The Congress further declares that implementation”.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 7002(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/116/260/s7002/b/1/A), added par. (3) and struck out former par. (3) which read as follows: “establish a long-range assessment capability concerning materials demands, supply and needs, and provide for the policies and programs necessary to meet those needs;”.

Pars. (7) to (13). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 7002(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/260/s7002/b/1/B), (C), added pars. (7) to (13) and struck out former par. (7) which read as follows: “encourage Federal agencies to facilitate availability and development of domestic resources to meet critical materials needs.”
