---
title: "§ 6012. Persons required to make returns of income"
identifier: "USC-T26-S6012"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section6012"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 732](/us/stat/68A/732); [Pub. L. 85–866, title I, § 72(a)](/us/pl/85/866/tI/s72/a), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1660](/us/stat/72/1660); [Pub. L. 88–272, title II, § 206(b)(1)](/us/pl/88/272/tII/s206/b/1), Feb. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 40](/us/stat/78/40); [Pub. L. 91–172, title IX, § 941(a)](/us/pl/91/172/tIX/s941/a), (d), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 726](/us/stat/83/726); [Pub. L. 92–178, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/92/178/tII/s204/a), Dec. 1"
---
# § 6012. Persons required to make returns of income

##### § 6012. Persons required to make returns of income

(a) General rule Returns with respect to income taxes under subtitle A shall be made by the following:

except that subject to such conditions, limitations, and exceptions and under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary, nonresident alien individuals subject to the tax imposed by section 871 and foreign corporations subject to the tax imposed by section 881 may be exempted from the requirement of making returns under this section.

(1)

(A) Every individual having for the taxable year gross income which equals or exceeds the exemption amount, except that a return shall not be required of an individual—

Clause (iv) shall not apply if for the taxable year such spouse makes a separate return or any other taxpayer is entitled to an exemption for such spouse under section 151(c).

(i) who is not married (determined by applying section 7703), is not a surviving spouse (as defined in section 2(a)), is not a head of a household (as defined in section 2(b)), and for the taxable year has gross income of less than the sum of the exemption amount plus the basic standard deduction applicable to such an individual,

(ii) who is a head of a household (as so defined) and for the taxable year has gross income of less than the sum of the exemption amount plus the basic standard deduction applicable to such an individual,

(iii) who is a surviving spouse (as so defined) and for the taxable year has gross income of less than the sum of the exemption amount plus the basic standard deduction applicable to such an individual, or

(iv) who is entitled to make a joint return and whose gross income, when combined with the gross income of his spouse, is, for the taxable year, less than the sum of twice the exemption amount plus the basic standard deduction applicable to a joint return, but only if such individual and his spouse, at the close of the taxable year, had the same household as their home.

(B) The amount specified in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A) shall be increased by the amount of 1 additional standard deduction (within the meaning of section 63(c)(3)) in the case of an individual entitled to such deduction by reason of section 63(f)(1)(A) (relating to individuals age 65 or more), and the amount specified in clause (iv) of subparagraph (A) shall be increased by the amount of the additional standard deduction for each additional standard deduction to which the individual or his spouse is entitled by reason of section 63(f)(1).

(C) The exception under subparagraph (A) shall not apply to any individual—

(i) who is described in section 63(c)(5) and who has—

(I) income (other than earned income) in excess of the sum of the amount in effect under section 63(c)(5)(A) plus the additional standard deduction (if any) to which the individual is entitled, or

(II) total gross income in excess of the standard deduction, or

(ii) for whom the standard deduction is zero under section 63(c)(6).

(D) For purposes of this subsection—

(i) The terms “standard deduction”, “basic standard deduction” and “additional standard deduction” have the respective meanings given such terms by section 63(c).

(ii) The term “exemption amount” has the meaning given such term by section 151(d). In the case of an individual described in section 151(d)(2), the exemption amount shall be zero.

(2) Every corporation subject to taxation under subtitle A;

(3) Every estate the gross income of which for the taxable year is $600 or more;

(4) Every trust having for the taxable year any taxable income, or having gross income of $600 or over, regardless of the amount of taxable income;

(5) Every estate or trust of which any beneficiary is a nonresident alien;

(6) Every political organization (within the meaning of section 527(e)(1)), and every fund treated under section 527(g) as if it constituted a political organization, which has political organization taxable income (within the meaning of section 527(c)(1)) for the taxable year;

(7) Every homeowners association (within the meaning of section 528(c)(1)) which has homeowners association taxable income (within the meaning of section 528(d)) for the taxable year; and

(8) Every estate of an individual under chapter 7 or 11 of title 11 of the United States Code (relating to bankruptcy) the gross income of which for the taxable year is not less than the sum of the exemption amount plus the basic standard deduction under section 63(c)(2)(C);

(b) Returns made by fiduciaries and receivers

(1) Returns of decedents If an individual is deceased, the return of such individual required under subsection (a) shall be made by his executor, administrator, or other person charged with the property of such decedent.

(2) Persons under a disability If an individual is unable to make a return required under subsection (a), the return of such individual shall be made by a duly authorized agent, his committee, guardian, fiduciary or other person charged with the care of the person or property of such individual. The preceding sentence shall not apply in the case of a receiver appointed by authority of law in possession of only a part of the property of an individual.

(3) Receivers, trustees and assignees for corporations In a case where a receiver, trustee in a case under title 11 of the United States Code, or assignee, by order of a court of competent jurisdiction, by operation of law or otherwise, has possession of or holds title to all or substantially all the property or business of a corporation, whether or not such property or business is being operated, such receiver, trustee, or assignee shall make the return of income for such corporation in the same manner and form as corporations are required to make such returns.

(4) Returns of estates and trusts Returns of an estate, a trust, or an estate of an individual under chapter 7 or 11 of title 11 of the United States Code shall be made by the fiduciary thereof.

(5) Joint fiduciaries Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, a return made by one of two or more joint fiduciaries shall be sufficient compliance with the requirements of this section. A return made pursuant to this paragraph shall contain a statement that the fiduciary has sufficient knowledge of the affairs of the person for whom the return is made to enable him to make the return, and that the return is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, true and correct.

(6) IRA share of partnership income In the case of a trust which is exempt from taxation under section 408(e), for purposes of this section, the trust’s distributive share of items of gross income and gain of any partnership to which subchapter C or D of chapter 63 applies shall be treated as equal to the trust’s distributive share of the taxable income of such partnership.

(c) Certain income earned abroad or from sale of residence For purposes of this section, gross income shall be computed without regard to the exclusion provided for in section 121 (relating to gain from sale of principal residence) and without regard to the exclusion provided for in section 911 (relating to citizens or residents of the United States living abroad).

(d) Tax-exempt interest required to be shown on return Every person required to file a return under this section for the taxable year shall include on such return the amount of interest received or accrued during the taxable year which is exempt from the tax imposed by chapter 1.

(e) Consolidated returns For provisions relating to consolidated returns by affiliated corporations, see chapter 6.

(f) Special rule for taxable years 2018 through 2025 In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 1, 2026, subsection (a)(1) shall not apply, and every individual who has gross income for the taxable year shall be required to make returns with respect to income taxes under subtitle A, except that a return shall not be required of—

(1) an individual who is not married (determined by applying section 7703) and who has gross income for the taxable year which does not exceed the standard deduction applicable to such individual for such taxable year under section 63, or

(2) an individual entitled to make a joint return if—

(A) the gross income of such individual, when combined with the gross income of such individual’s spouse, for the taxable year does not exceed the standard deduction which would be applicable to the taxpayer for such taxable year under section 63 if such individual and such individual’s spouse made a joint return,

(B) such individual and such individual’s spouse have the same household as their home at the close of the taxable year,

(C) such individual’s spouse does not make a separate return, and

(D) neither such individual nor such individual’s spouse is an individual described in section 63(c)(5) who has income (other than earned income) in excess of the amount in effect under section 63(c)(5)(A).

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 732](/us/stat/68A/732); [Pub. L. 85–866, title I, § 72(a)](/us/pl/85/866/tI/s72/a), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1660](/us/stat/72/1660); [Pub. L. 88–272, title II, § 206(b)(1)](/us/pl/88/272/tII/s206/b/1), Feb. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 40](/us/stat/78/40); [Pub. L. 91–172, title IX, § 941(a)](/us/pl/91/172/tIX/s941/a), (d), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 726](/us/stat/83/726); [Pub. L. 92–178, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/92/178/tII/s204/a), Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 511](/us/stat/85/511); [Pub. L. 93–443, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/93/443/tIV/s407), Oct. 15, 1974, [88 Stat. 1297](/us/stat/88/1297); [Pub. L. 93–625, § 10(b)](/us/pl/93/625/s10/b), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2119](/us/stat/88/2119); [Pub. L. 94–12, title II, § 201(b)](/us/pl/94/12/tII/s201/b), Mar. 29, 1975, [89 Stat. 29](/us/stat/89/29); [Pub. L. 94–164, § 2(a)(2)](/us/pl/94/164/s2/a/2), Dec. 23, 1975, [89 Stat. 970](/us/stat/89/970); [Pub. L. 94–455, title IV, § 401(b)(3)](/us/pl/94/455/tIV/s401/b/3), title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A), title XXI, § 2101(c), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1556](/us/stat/90/1556), 1834, 1899; [Pub. L. 95–30, title I, § 104](/us/pl/95/30/tI/s104), May 23, 1977, [91 Stat. 139](/us/stat/91/139); [Pub. L. 95–600, title I](/us/pl/95/600/tI), §§ 101(c), 102(b)(1), 105(d), title IV, § 404(c)(8), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2770](/us/stat/92/2770), 2771, 2776, 2870; [Pub. L. 95–615, § 202(g)(5)](/us/pl/95/615/s202/g/5), formerly § 202(f)(5), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3100](/us/stat/92/3100), renumbered § 202(g)(5), [Pub. L. 96–222, title I, § 108(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/96/222/tI/s108/a/1/A), Apr. 1, 1980, [94 Stat. 223](/us/stat/94/223); [Pub. L. 96–589](/us/pl/96/589), §§ 3(b), 6(i)(5), Dec. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 3400](/us/stat/94/3400), 3410; [Pub. L. 97–34, title I](/us/pl/97/34/tI), §§ 104(d)(1), 111(b)(3), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 189](/us/stat/95/189), 194; [Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title IV, § 412(b)(3)](/us/pl/98/369/dA/tIV/s412/b/3), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 792](/us/stat/98/792); [Pub. L. 99–514, title I, § 104(a)(1)](/us/pl/99/514/tI/s104/a/1), title XV, § 1525(a), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2103](/us/stat/100/2103), 2749; [Pub. L. 100–647, title I, § 1001(b)(2)](/us/pl/100/647/tI/s1001/b/2), Nov. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 3349](/us/stat/102/3349); [Pub. L. 105–34, title III, § 312(d)(11)](/us/pl/105/34/tIII/s312/d/11), title XII, § 1225, Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 840](/us/stat/111/840), 1019; [Pub. L. 106–230, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/106/230/s3/a/1), July 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 482](/us/stat/114/482); [Pub. L. 107–276, § 3(a)](/us/pl/107/276/s3/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1931](/us/stat/116/1931); [Pub. L. 111–226, title II, § 219(b)(1)](/us/pl/111/226/tII/s219/b/1), Aug. 10, 2010, [124 Stat. 2403](/us/stat/124/2403); [Pub. L. 115–97, title I, § 11041(e)](/us/pl/115/97/tI/s11041/e), Dec. 22, 2017, [131 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/131/2085); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. U, title IV, § 401(a)(255)](/us/pl/115/141/dU/tIV/s401/a/255)–(257), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1196](/us/stat/132/1196).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 401(a)(255)](/us/pl/115/141/s401/a/255), struck out “and” after “year;”.

Subsec. (a)(7). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 401(a)(256)](/us/pl/115/141/s401/a/256), substituted “year; and” for “year.”

Subsec. (a)(8). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 401(a)(257)](/us/pl/115/141/s401/a/257), substituted “section 63(c)(2)(C);” for “section 63(c)(2)(D).”

2017—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–97](/us/pl/115/97) added subsec. (f).

2010—Subsec. (a)(8), (9). [Pub. L. 111–226](/us/pl/111/226) redesignated par. (9) as (8) and struck out former par. (8) which read as follows: “Every individual who receives payments during the calendar year in which the taxable year begins under section 3507 (relating to advance payment of earned income credit).”

2002—Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 107–276](/us/pl/107/276) struck out “or which has gross receipts of $25,000 or more for the taxable year (other than an organization to which section 527 applies solely by reason of subsection (f)(1) of such section)” after “(within the meaning of section 527(c)(1)) for the taxable year”.

2000—Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 106–230](/us/pl/106/230) inserted “or which has gross receipts of $25,000 or more for the taxable year (other than an organization to which section 527 applies solely by reason of subsection (f)(1) of such section)” after “taxable year”.

1997—Subsec. (b)(6). [Pub. L. 105–34, § 1225](/us/pl/105/34/s1225), added par. (6).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 105–34, § 312(d)(11)](/us/pl/105/34/s312/d/11), substituted “(relating to gain from sale of principal residence)” for “(relating to one-time exclusion of gain from sale of principal residence by individual who has attained age 55)”.

1988—Subsec. (a)(1)(C)(i). [Pub. L. 100–647](/us/pl/100/647) amended subcl. (I) generally, substituting “the sum of the amount in effect under section 63(c)(5)(A) plus the additional standard deduction (if any) to which the individual is entitled” for “the amount in effect under section 63(c)(5)(A) (relating to limitation on standard deduction in the case of certain dependents)”.

1986—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 99–514, § 104(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/99/514/s104/a/1/A), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows:

“(1)(A) Every individual having for the taxable year a gross income of the exemption amount or more, except that a return shall not be required of an individual (other than an individual described in subparagraph (C))—

“(i) who is not married (determined by applying section 143), is not a surviving spouse (as defined in section 2(a)), and for the taxable year has a gross income of less than the sum of the exemption amount plus the zero bracket amount applicable to such an individual,

“(ii) who is a surviving spouse (as so defined) and for the taxable year has a gross income of less than the sum of the exemption amount plus the zero bracket amount applicable to such an individual, or

“(iii) who is entitled to make a joint return under section 6013 and whose gross income, when combined with the gross income of his spouse, is, for the taxable year, less than the sum of twice the exemption amount plus the zero bracket amount applicable to a joint return, but only if such individual and his spouse, at the close of the taxable year, had the same household as their home.

Clause (iii) shall not apply if for the taxable year such spouse makes a separate return or any other taxpayer is entitled to an exemption for such spouse under section 151(e).

“(B) The amount specified in clause (i) or (ii) of subparagraph (A) shall be increased by the exemption amount in the case of an individual entitled to an additional personal exemption under section 151(c)(1), and the amount specified in clause (iii) of subparagraph (A) shall be increased by the exemption amount for each additional personal exemption to which the individual or his spouse is entitled under section 151(c).

“(C) The exception under subparagraph (A) shall not apply to—

“(i) a nonresident alien individual;

“(ii) a citizen of the United States entitled to the benefits of section 931;

“(iii) an individual making a return under section 443(a)(1) for a period of less than 12 months on account of a change in his annual accounting period;

“(iv) an individual who has income (other than earned income) of the exemption amount or more and who is described in section 63(e)(1)(D); or

“(v) an estate or trust.

“(D) For purposes of this paragraph—

“(i) The term ‘zero bracket amount’ has the meaning given to such term by section 63(d).

“(ii) The term ‘exemption amount’ has the meaning given to such term by section 151(f).”

Subsec. (a)(9). [Pub. L. 99–514, § 104(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/99/514/s104/a/1/B), substituted “not less than the sum of the exemption amount plus the basic standard deduction under section 63(c)(2)(D)” for “$2,700 or more”.

Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 99–514, § 1525(a)](/us/pl/99/514/s1525/a), added subsec. (d) and redesignated former subsec. (d) as (e).

1984—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369) struck out “or section 6015(a)” after “subsection (a)”.

1981—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 97–34, § 104(d)(1)(D)](/us/pl/97/34/s104/d/1/D), substituted “the exemption amount” for “$1,000”, wherever appearing, substituted “the sum of the exemption amount plus the zero bracket amount applicable to such an individual” for “$3,300” in subpar. (A)(i) and for “$4,400” in subpar. (A)(ii), substituted “the sum of twice the exemption amount plus the zero bracket amount applicable to a joint return” for “$5,400” in subpar. (A)(iii), and added subpar. (D).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 97–34, § 111(b)(3)](/us/pl/97/34/s111/b/3), substituted “relating to citizens or residents of the United States living abroad” for “relating to income earned by employees in certain camps”.

1980—Subsec. (a)(9). [Pub. L. 96–589, § 3(b)(1)](/us/pl/96/589/s3/b/1), added par. (9).

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 96–589, § 6(i)(5)](/us/pl/96/589/s6/i/5), substituted “trustee in a case under title 11 of the United States Code” for “trustee in bankruptcy”.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 96–589, § 3(b)(2)](/us/pl/96/589/s3/b/2), inserted reference to estate of an individual under chapter 7 or 11 of title 11 of the United States Code.

1978—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600), §§ 101(c), 102(b)(1), substituted in provision preceding cl. (i), “$1,000” for “$750”, in cl. (i), “$3,050” for “$2,950” and “$3,300” for “$3,050”, in cl. (ii), “$4,150” for “$3,950” and “$4,400” for “$4,150”, and in cl. (iii), “$4,900” for “$4,700” and “$5,400” for “$4,900”.

Subsec. (a)(8). [Pub. L. 95–600, § 105(d)](/us/pl/95/600/s105/d), added par. (8).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 95–615](/us/pl/95/615) substituted “(relating to income earned by employees in certain camps)” for “(relating to earned income from sources without the United States)”.

[Pub. L. 95–600, § 404(c)(8)](/us/pl/95/600/s404/c/8), inserted provisions relating to a one-time exclusion and principal residence, and substituted “55” for “65”.

1977—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 95–30](/us/pl/95/30) substituted “(other than an individual described in subparagraph (C))” for “(other than an individual referred to in section 142(b))” in provisions preceding cl. (i), “$2,950” for “$2,450” in cl. (i), “$3,950” for “$2,850” in cl. (ii), and “$4,700” for “$3,600” in cl. (iii).

Subsec. (a)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 95–30](/us/pl/95/30) reenacted subpar. (B) without change.

Subsec. (a)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 95–30](/us/pl/95/30) substituted provisions that the exception under subparagraph (A) shall not apply to a nonresident alien individual, a citizen of the United States entitled to the benefits of section 931, an individual making a return under section 443(a)(1) for a period of less than 12 months on account of a change in his annual accounting period, an individual who has income (other than earned income) of $750 or more and who is described in section 63(e)(1)(D), or an estate or trust, for provisions requiring that a return with respect to income taxes under subtitle A be made by every individual having for the taxable year a gross income of $750 or more and to whom section 141(e) (relating to limitations in case of certain dependent taxpayers) applied.

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/s1906/b/13/A), struck out in provisions following par. (7) “or his delegate” after “Secretary”.

Subsec. (a)(1)(A), (B). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 401(b)(3)](/us/pl/94/455/s401/b/3), reenacted subpars. (A) and (B) without change.

Subsec. (a)(7). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 2101(c)](/us/pl/94/455/s2101/c), added par. (7).

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/s1906/b/13/A), struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary”.

1975—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 94–164](/us/pl/94/164) substituted “$2,450” for “$2,350” in cl. (i), “$2,850” for “$2,650” in cl. (ii), and “$3,600” for “$3,400” in cl. (iii).

[Pub. L. 94–12](/us/pl/94/12) substituted “(determined by applying section 143), is not a surviving spouse (as defined in section 2(a)), and for the taxable year has a gross income of less than $2,350” for “determined by applying section 143(a)) and for the taxable year has a gross income of less than $2,050, or” in cl. (i), added cl. (ii), redesignated existing cl. (ii) as (iii), in cl. (iii) as so redesignated substituted “$3,400” for “$2,800”, and in provisions following cl. (iii) substituted “Clause (iii)” for “Clause (ii)”.

Subsec. (a)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 94–12](/us/pl/94/12) substituted “The amount specified in clause (i) or (ii) of subparagraph (A) shall be increased by $750” for “The $2,050 amount specified in subparagraph (A)(i) shall be increased to $2,800” and “the amount specified in clause (iii) of subparagraph (A) shall be increased by $750” for “the $2,800 amount specified in subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be increased by $750”.

Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 93–625](/us/pl/93/625) added par. (6) and struck out provision that Secretary or his delegate shall, by regulation, exempt from requirement of making returns under this section any political committee (as defined in section 301(d) of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971) having no gross income for taxable year.

1974—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 93–443](/us/pl/93/443) provided for exemption from tax returns requirement of political committees having no gross income for taxable year.

1971—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 92–178](/us/pl/92/178) substituted “$750” for “$600” in subpars. (A) and (B); “$2,050” for “1,700” in subpars. (A)(i) and (B); and “2,800” for “2,300” in subpars. (A)(ii) and (B), twice; and added subpar. (C), respectively.

1969—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 91–172, § 941(a)](/us/pl/91/172/s941/a), (d), struck out after “$600 or more”, “(except that any individual who has attained the age of 65 before the close of his taxable year shall be required to make a return only if he has for the taxable year a gross income of $1,200 or more)”, designated remaining introductory text as subpar. (A), inserted remainder of subpars. (A) and (B), applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1969; and substituted “$750”, “$1,750”, and “$2,500” for “$600”, “$1,700”, and “$2,300” wherever appearing, effective with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1972.

1964—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 88–272](/us/pl/88/272) inserted provisions relating to sale of residence.

1958—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 85–866](/us/pl/85/866) added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–97](/us/pl/115/97) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2017, see [section 11041(f)(1) of Pub. L. 115–97](/us/pl/115/97/s11041/f/1), set out as a note under [section 151 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s151).

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–226](/us/pl/111/226) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2010, see [section 219(c) of Pub. L. 111–226](/us/pl/111/226/s219/c), set out as a note under [section 32 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s32).

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

[Pub. L. 107–276, § 3(d)](/us/pl/107/276/s3/d), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1932](/us/stat/116/1932), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 6033 and 6104 of this title] shall take effect as if included in the amendments made by [Public Law 106–230](/us/pl/106/230).”

#### Effective Date of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–230, § 3(d)](/us/pl/106/230/s3/d), July 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 483](/us/stat/114/483), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 6033, 6104, and 6652 of this title] shall apply to returns for taxable years beginning after June 30, 2000.”

#### Effective Date of 1997 Amendment

Amendment by [section 312(d)(11) of Pub. L. 105–34](/us/pl/105/34/s312/d/11) applicable to sales and exchanges after May 6, 1997, with certain exceptions, see section 312(d)[(e)] of [Pub. L. 105–34](/us/pl/105/34), set out as a note under [section 121 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s121).

Amendment by [section 1225 of Pub. L. 105–34](/us/pl/105/34/s1225) applicable to partnership taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1997, see [section 1226 of Pub. L. 105–34](/us/pl/105/34/s1226), as amended, set out as a note under [section 6011 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s6011).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–647](/us/pl/100/647) effective, except as otherwise provided, as if included in the provision of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514), to which such amendment relates, see [section 1019(a) of Pub. L. 100–647](/us/pl/100/647/s1019/a), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1).

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [section 104(a)(1) of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s104/a/1) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1986, see [section 151(a) of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s151/a), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1).

[Pub. L. 99–514, title XV, § 1525(b)](/us/pl/99/514/tXV/s1525/b), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2749](/us/stat/100/2749), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.”

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369) applicable with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1984, see [section 414(a) of Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369/s414/a), set out as a note under [section 6654 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s6654).

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by [section 104(d)(1) of Pub. L. 97–34](/us/pl/97/34/s104/d/1) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1984, see [section 104(e) of Pub. L. 97–34](/us/pl/97/34/s104/e), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1).

Amendment by [section 111(b)(3) of Pub. L. 97–34](/us/pl/97/34/s111/b/3) applicable with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1981, see [section 115 of Pub. L. 97–34](/us/pl/97/34/s115), set out as a note under [section 911 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s911).

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [section 6(i)(5) of Pub. L. 96–589](/us/pl/96/589/s6/i/5) effective Oct. 1, 1979, but not applicable to proceedings under title 11 commenced before Oct. 1, 1979, and amendment by [section 3(b) of Pub. L. 96–589](/us/pl/96/589/s3/b) applicable to bankruptcy cases commencing more than 90 days after Dec. 24, 1980, see section 7(b), (e) of [Pub. L. 96–589](/us/pl/96/589), set out as a note under [section 108 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s108).

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [section 101(c) of Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600/s101/c) effective with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1978, see [section 101(f)(1) of Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600/s101/f/1), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1).

Amendment by [section 102(b)(1) of Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600/s102/b/1) effective with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1978, see [section 102(d)(1) of Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600/s102/d/1), set out as a note under [section 151 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s151).

Amendment by [section 105(d) of Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600/s105/d) effective with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1978, see [section 105(g)(1) of Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600/s105/g/1), set out as a note under [section 32 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s32).

Amendment by [section 404(c)(8) of Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600/s404/c/8) applicable to sales or exchanges after July 26, 1978, in taxable years ending after such date, see [section 404(d)(1) of Pub. L. 95–600](/us/pl/95/600/s404/d/1), set out as a note under [section 121 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s121).

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment; Election of Prior Law

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–615](/us/pl/95/615) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1977, with provision for election of prior law, see [section 209 of Pub. L. 95–615](/us/pl/95/615/s209), set out as a note under [section 911 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s911).

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–30](/us/pl/95/30) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1976, see [section 106(a) of Pub. L. 95–30](/us/pl/95/30/s106/a), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s1).

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [section 401(b)(3) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s401/b/3) applicable to taxable years ending after Dec. 31, 1975, see [section 401(e) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s401/e), set out as a note under [section 32 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s32).

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 1975 Amendments

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–164](/us/pl/94/164) applicable to taxable years ending after Dec. 31, 1975 and before Jan. 1, 1977, see [section 2(g) of Pub. L. 94–164](/us/pl/94/164/s2/g), set out as a note under [section 32 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s32).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–12](/us/pl/94/12) applicable to taxable years ending after Dec. 31, 1974, and to cease to apply to taxable years ending after Dec. 31, 1976, see [section 209(a) of Pub. L. 94–12](/us/pl/94/12/s209/a), as amended, set out as a note under [section 3 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s3).

#### Effective Date of 1974 Amendments

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–625](/us/pl/93/625) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1974, see [section 10(e) of Pub. L. 93–625](/us/pl/93/625/s10/e), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 527 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s527).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–443](/us/pl/93/443) applicable with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1971, see [section 410(c)(2) of Pub. L. 93–443](/us/pl/93/443/s410/c/2), set out as a note under [section 30101 of Title 52](/us/usc/t52/s30101), Voting and Elections.

#### Effective Date of 1971 Amendment

[Pub. L. 92–178, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/92/178/tII/s204/a), Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 511](/us/stat/85/511), provided that the amendment made by section 204(a) is effective with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1971.

#### Effective Date of 1969 Amendment

Amendment by [section 941(a) of Pub. L. 91–172](/us/pl/91/172/s941/a) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1969, see [section 941(c) of Pub. L. 91–172](/us/pl/91/172/s941/c), set out as a note under [section 151 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s151).

Amendment by [section 941(d) of Pub. L. 91–172](/us/pl/91/172/s941/d), which substituted “$750”, “$1,750”, and “$2,500” for “$600”, “$1,700” and “$2,300” wherever appearing, effective with respect to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1972, was repealed by [Pub. L. 92–178, title II, § 204(b)](/us/pl/92/178/tII/s204/b), Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 511](/us/stat/85/511).

#### Effective Date of 1964 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 88–272](/us/pl/88/272) applicable to dispositions after Dec. 31, 1963, in taxable years ending after such date, see [section 206(c) of Pub. L. 88–272](/us/pl/88/272/s206/c), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 121 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s121).

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

[Pub. L. 85–866, title I, § 72(c)](/us/pl/85/866/tI/s72/c), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1660](/us/stat/72/1660), provided that: “The amendments [amending this section and [section 911 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s911)] made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957.”

#### Return-Free Tax System

[Pub. L. 105–206, title II, § 2004](/us/pl/105/206/tII/s2004), July 22, 1998, [112 Stat. 726](/us/stat/112/726), related to the development of procedures for the implementation of a return-free tax system for taxable years beginning after 2007 and required an annual report to Congress, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 116–25, title II, § 2401](/us/pl/116/25/tII/s2401), July 1, 2019, [133 Stat. 1014](/us/stat/133/1014).

#### No Return Required of Individual Whose Only Gross Income Is Grant of $1,000 From State

[Pub. L. 97–424, title V, § 542](/us/pl/97/424/tV/s542), Jan. 6, 1983, [96 Stat. 2195](/us/stat/96/2195), as amended by [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095), provided that: “(a) In General.—Nothing in section 6012(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [formerly I.R.C. 1954] shall be construed to require the filing of a return with respect to income taxes under subtitle A of such code by an individual whose only gross income for the taxable year is a grant of $1,000 received from a State which made such grants generally to residents of such State. “(b) Effective Date.—Subsection (a) shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1981.”

#### Exemption From Filing Requirement for Prior Years Where Income of Political Party was $100 or Less

[Pub. L. 93–625, § 10(f)](/us/pl/93/625/s10/f), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2119](/us/stat/88/2119), provided for exemption from filing requirement for a taxable year beginning after Dec. 31, 1971, and before Jan. 1, 1975, of any section 527(e)(1) organization where income of political organization was $100 or less.
