---
title: "§ 1137. Contracting for major acquisitions programs"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1137"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1137"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title III, § 311(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tIII/s311/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4249](/us/stat/132/4249); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXI](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXI) [LXXXI], § 8111(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4639](/us/stat/134/4639); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, § 1702(d)(2)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVII/s1702/d/2), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2156](/us/stat/135/2156).)"
---
# § 1137. Contracting for major acquisitions programs

##### § 1137. Contracting for major acquisitions programs

(a) In General.— In carrying out authorities provided to the Secretary to design, construct, accept, or otherwise acquire assets and systems under section 501(d), the Secretary, acting through the Commandant or the head of an integrated program office established for a major acquisition program, may enter into contracts for a major acquisition program and 3 Polar Security Cutters in addition to those approved as part of a major acquisition program on November 1, 2019.

(b) Authorized Methods.— Contracts entered into under subsection (a)—

(1) may be block buy contracts;

(2) may be incrementally funded;

(3) may include combined purchases, also known as economic order quantity purchases, of—

(A) materials and components; and

(B) long lead time materials; and

(4) as provided in [section 3501 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s3501), may be multiyear contracts.

(c) Subject to Appropriations.— Any contract entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract is subject to the availability of amounts specifically provided in advance for that purpose in subsequent appropriations Acts.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title III, § 311(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tIII/s311/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4249](/us/stat/132/4249); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXI](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXI) [LXXXI], § 8111(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4639](/us/stat/134/4639); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, § 1702(d)(2)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVII/s1702/d/2), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2156](/us/stat/135/2156).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) inserted “and 3 Polar Security Cutters in addition to those approved as part of a major acquisition program on November 1, 2019” before period at end.

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) substituted “section 3501” for “section 2306b”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Internal Regulations and Policy

[Pub. L. 115–282, title III, § 311(e)](/us/pl/115/282/tIII/s311/e), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4249](/us/stat/132/4249), provided that: “Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2018], the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall establish the internal regulations and policies necessary to exercise the authorities provided under this section [enacting this section, amending [section 501 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s501), enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 1133 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s1133), amending provisions formerly set out as a note under former [section 573 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s573), and repealing provisions set out as notes under former sections 87 and 577 of this title], including the amendments made in this section.”
