---
title: "§ 20143. Grants for young witness assistance"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20143"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20143"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1136](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1136), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3109](/us/stat/119/3109); [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(c)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/c), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 766](/us/stat/120/766).)"
---
# § 20143. Grants for young witness assistance

##### § 20143. Grants for young witness assistance

(a) In general The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance of the Office of Justice Programs may make grants to State and local prosecutors and law enforcement agencies in support of juvenile and young adult witness assistance programs.

(b) Use of funds Grants made available under this section may be used—

(1) to assess the needs of juvenile and young adult witnesses;

(2) to develop appropriate program goals and objectives; and

(3) to develop and administer a variety of witness assistance services, which includes—

(A) counseling services to young witnesses dealing with trauma associated in witnessing a violent crime;

(B) pre- and post-trial assistance for the youth and their family;

(C) providing education services if the child is removed from or changes their school for safety concerns;

(D) protective services for young witnesses and their families when a serious threat of harm from the perpetrators or their associates is made; and

(E) community outreach and school-based initiatives that stimulate and maintain public awareness and support.

(c) Definitions In this section:

(1) The term “juvenile” means an individual who is age 17 or younger.

(2) The term “young adult” means an individual who is age 21 or younger but not a juvenile.

(3) The term “State” includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2009.

*([Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1136](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1136), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3109](/us/stat/119/3109); [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(c)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/c), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 766](/us/stat/120/766).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3743 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3743), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–271](/us/pl/109/271) substituted “The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance of the Office of Justice Programs may” for “The Attorney General, acting through the Bureau of Justice Assistance, may”.
