---
title: "§ 857–15. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T33-S857–15"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section857–15"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–63, § 4](/us/pl/95/63/s4), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 266](/us/stat/91/266).)"
---
# § 857–15. Reports

##### § 857–15. Reports

(a) In general The Committee shall submit an annual report to the President and to the Congress setting forth an assessment, on a selective basis, of the status of the Nation’s marine and atmospheric activities, and shall submit such other reports as may from time to time be requested by the President or the Congress.

(b) Review by Secretary Each annual report shall also be submitted to the Secretary of Commerce, who shall, within 60 days after receipt thereof, transmit his or her comments and recommendations to the President and to the Congress.

(c) Annual report submittal The annual report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted on or before June 30 of each year, beginning with June 30, 1978.

*([Pub. L. 95–63, § 4](/us/pl/95/63/s4), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 266](/us/stat/91/266).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A provision similar to that contained in this section, which required an annual report, beginning June 30, 1972, from the National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere as originally established on Aug. 16, 1971, was contained in [section 857–9 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s857–9) prior to repeal by [section 7(a) of Pub. L. 95–63](/us/pl/95/63/s7/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (a) of this section relating to submitting an annual report to Congress and provisions in subsec. (b) of this section relating to annually transmitting comments and recommendations to Congress, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and pages 50 and 177 of House Document No. 103–7.

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
