---
title: "§ 8113. Property formerly owned by National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers"
identifier: "USC-T38-S8113"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section8113"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–22, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/96/22/tIII/s301/a), June 13, 1979, [93 Stat. 61](/us/stat/93/61), § 5013; renumbered § 8113, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238).)"
---
# § 8113. Property formerly owned by National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers

##### § 8113. Property formerly owned by National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers

If by reason of any defeasance or conditional clause or clauses contained in any deed of conveyance of property to the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, which property is owned by the United States, the full and complete enjoyment and use of such property is threatened, the Attorney General, upon request of the President, shall institute in the United States district court for the district in which the property is located such proceedings as may be proper to extinguish all outstanding adverse interests. The Attorney General may procure and accept, on behalf of the United States, by gift, purchase, cession, or otherwise, absolute title to, and complete jurisdiction over, all such property.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–22, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/96/22/tIII/s301/a), June 13, 1979, [93 Stat. 61](/us/stat/93/61), § 5013; renumbered § 8113, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in former [section 5006 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5006) prior to the general revision of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 96–22](/us/pl/96/22).

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 5013 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5013) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1979, but not applicable with respect to the acquisition, construction, or alteration of any medical facilities if the acquisition, construction, or alteration (not including exchange) was approved by the President before Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 302 of Pub. L. 96–22](/us/pl/96/22/s302), set out as a note under [section 8101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s8101).
