---
title: "§ 929. National security and other sensitive information"
identifier: "USC-T47-S929"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section929"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–538, title I, § 119](/us/pl/102/538/tI/s119), as added [Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6703](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6703), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 255](/us/stat/126/255).)"
---
# § 929. National security and other sensitive information

##### § 929. National security and other sensitive information

(a) Determination If the head of an Executive agency (as defined in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105)) determines that public disclosure of any information contained in a notification or report required by section 923 or 928 of this title would reveal classified national security information, or other information for which there is a legal basis for nondisclosure and the public disclosure of which would be detrimental to national security, homeland security, or public safety or would jeopardize a law enforcement investigation, the head of the Executive agency shall notify the Assistant Secretary of that determination prior to the release of such information.

(b) Inclusion in annex The head of the Executive agency shall place the information with respect to which a determination was made under subsection (a) in a separate annex to the notification or report required by section 923 or 928 of this title. The annex shall be provided to the subcommittee of primary jurisdiction of the congressional committee of primary jurisdiction in accordance with appropriate national security stipulations but shall not be disclosed to the public or provided to any unauthorized person through any means.

*([Pub. L. 102–538, title I, § 119](/us/pl/102/538/tI/s119), as added [Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6703](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6703), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 255](/us/stat/126/255).)*
