---
title: "§ 5735. Travel, transportation, and relocation expenses of employees transferring to the United States Postal Service"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5735"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5735"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, § 345(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIII/s345/a/1), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2723](/us/stat/108/2723).)"
---
# § 5735. Travel, transportation, and relocation expenses of employees transferring to the United States Postal Service

##### § 5735. Travel, transportation, and relocation expenses of employees transferring to the United States Postal Service

(a) In General.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, employees of the Department of Defense described in subsection (b) may be authorized travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances in connection with appointments referred to in such subsection under the same conditions and to the same extent authorized by this subchapter for transferred employees.

(b) Covered Employees.— Subsection (a) applies to any employee of the Department of Defense who—

(1) is scheduled for separation from the Department, other than for cause;

(2) is selected for appointment to a continuing position with the United States Postal Service; and

(3) accepts the appointment.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, § 345(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIII/s345/a/1), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2723](/us/stat/108/2723).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, § 345(b)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIII/s345/b), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2724](/us/stat/108/2724), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall apply to persons separated from employment with the Department of Defense on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 1994].”
