---
title: "§ 1813. Electronic Visa Update System fee"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1813"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1813"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–21, title X, § 100015](/us/pl/119/21/tX/s100015), July 4, 2025, [139 Stat. 382](/us/stat/139/382).)"
---
# § 1813. Electronic Visa Update System fee

##### § 1813. Electronic Visa Update System fee

(a) In general In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall require the payment of a fee, in the amount specified in subsection (b), by any alien subject to the Electronic Visa Update System at the time of such alien’s enrollment in such system.

(b) Amount specified

(1) In general For fiscal year 2025, the amount specified in this subsection shall be the greater of—

(A) $30; or

(B) such amount as the Secretary of Homeland Security may establish, by rule.

(2) Annual adjustments for inflation During fiscal year 2026 and each subsequent fiscal year, the amount specified in this subsection shall be equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount of the fee required under this subsection during the most recently concluded fiscal year; and

(B) the product resulting from the multiplication of the amount referred to in subparagraph (A) by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year, rounded to the next lowest multiple of $0.25.

(c) Disposition of Electronic Visa Update System fees

(1) Omitted

(2) Remaining fees Of the fees collected pursuant to this section, an amount equal to $5 multiplied by the number of payments collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited to the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) No fee waiver Fees required to be paid under this section shall not be waived or reduced.

*([Pub. L. 119–21, title X, § 100015](/us/pl/119/21/tX/s100015), July 4, 2025, [139 Stat. 382](/us/stat/139/382).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 100015 of Pub. L. 119–21](/us/pl/119/21/s100015). Subsec. (c)(1) of [section 100015 of Pub. L. 119–21](/us/pl/119/21/s100015) amended [section 1356 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1356).
