---
title: "§ 20504. Grant program for support of AMBER Alert communications plans"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–21, title III, § 304](/us/pl/108/21/tIII/s304), Apr. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 663](/us/stat/117/663); [Pub. L. 115–166, § 2](/us/pl/115/166/s2), Apr. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1274](/us/stat/132/1274); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title C, § 10001(c)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tC/s10001/c), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4862](/us/stat/134/4862).)"
---
# § 20504. Grant program for support of AMBER Alert communications plans

##### § 20504. Grant program for support of AMBER Alert communications plans

(a) Program required The Attorney General shall carry out a program to provide grants to States and Indian tribes for—

(1) the development or enhancement of programs and activities for the support of AMBER Alert communications plans; and

(2) the integration of tribal AMBER Alert systems into State AMBER Alert systems.

(b) Activities Activities funded by grants under the program under subsection (a) may include—

(1) the development and implementation of education and training programs, and associated materials, relating to AMBER Alert communications plans;

(2) the development and implementation of law enforcement programs, and associated equipment, relating to AMBER Alert communications plans;

(3) the development and implementation of new technologies to improve AMBER Alert communications;

(4) the integration of State or regional AMBER Alert communication plans with a territorial government or an Indian tribe; and

(5) such other activities as the Attorney General considers appropriate for supporting the AMBER Alert communications program.

(c) Federal share

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Federal share of the cost of any activities funded by a grant under this section may not exceed 50 percent.

(2) Waiver If the Attorney General determines that American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or an Indian tribe is unable to comply with the requirement under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall waive such requirement.

(d) Distribution of grant amounts on geographic basis The Attorney General shall, to the maximum extent practicable, ensure the distribution of grants under the program under subsection (a) on an equitable basis throughout the various regions of the United States, including territories of the United States.

(e) Administration The Attorney General shall prescribe requirements, including application requirements, and standards to improve accountability and transparency for grants awarded under the program under subsection (a).

(f) Definition of Indian tribe In this section, the term “Indian tribe” means a federally recognized Indian tribe or a Native village, Regional Corporation, or Village Corporation (as those terms are defined in [section 1602 of title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1602)).

(g) Authorization of appropriations

(1) There is authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Justice $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2019 to carry out this section and, in addition, $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2019 to carry out paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (b).

(2) Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 108–21, title III, § 304](/us/pl/108/21/tIII/s304), Apr. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 663](/us/stat/117/663); [Pub. L. 115–166, § 2](/us/pl/115/166/s2), Apr. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1274](/us/stat/132/1274); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title C, § 10001(c)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tC/s10001/c), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4862](/us/stat/134/4862).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5791c of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5791c), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 10001(c)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s10001/c/1), inserted “a territorial government or” after “with”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 10001(c)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/s10001/c/2), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Federal share of the cost of any activities funded by a grant under the program under subsection (a) may not exceed 50 percent.

“(2) Waiver of Federal share.—If the Attorney General determines that an Indian tribe does not have sufficient funds available to comply with the Federal share requirement under paragraph (1) for the cost of activities funded by a grant for the purpose described in subsection (b)(4), the Attorney General may increase the Federal share of the costs for such activities to the extent the Attorney General determines necessary.”

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 10001(c)(3)](/us/pl/116/283/s10001/c/3), inserted “, including territories of the United States” before period at end.

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–166, § 2(1)](/us/pl/115/166/s2/1), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Attorney General shall carry out a program to provide grants to States for the development or enhancement of programs and activities for the support of AMBER Alert communications plans.”

Subsec. (b)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 115–166, § 2(2)](/us/pl/115/166/s2/2), added par. (4) and redesignated former par. (4) as (5).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–166, § 2(3)](/us/pl/115/166/s2/3), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and inserted heading, substituted “Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Federal” for “The Federal”, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 115–166, § 2(4)](/us/pl/115/166/s2/4), substituted “and standards to improve accountability and transparency for grants awarded under” for “for grants under”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–166, § 2(6)](/us/pl/115/166/s2/6), added subsec. (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 115–166, § 2(5)](/us/pl/115/166/s2/5), (7), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g) and, in par. (1), substituted “2019” for “2004” in two places and “paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (b)” for “subsection (b)(3)”.
