---
title: "§ 2349aa–2. Limitations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2349aa–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2349aa–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. II, § 573, as added [Pub. L. 98–151, § 101(b)(2)](/us/pl/98/151/s101/b/2), Nov. 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 972](/us/stat/97/972); amended [Pub. L. 99–83, title V, § 501(b)](/us/pl/99/83/tV/s501/b), (c), Aug. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 220](/us/stat/99/220); [Pub. L. 99–399, title V, § 507](/us/pl/99/399/tV/s507), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 873](/us/stat/100/873); [Pub. L. 101–604, title II, § 213(b)](/us/pl/101/604/tII/s213/b), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3086](/us/stat/104/3"
---
# § 2349aa–2. Limitations

##### § 2349aa–2. Limitations

(a) Services and commodities furnished by agency of United States Government; advance payment Whenever the President determines it to be consistent with and in furtherance of the purposes of this part, and on such terms and conditions consistent with this chapter as he may determine, any agency of the United States Government is authorized to furnish services and commodities, without charge to funds available to carry out this part, to an eligible foreign country, subject to payment in advance of the value thereof (within the meaning of [section 2403(m) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2403/m)) in United States dollars by the foreign country. Credits and the proceeds of guaranteed loans made available to such countries pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act [[22 U.S.C. 2751](/us/usc/t22/s2751) et seq.] shall not be used for such payments. Collections under this part shall be credited to the currently applicable appropriation, account, or fund of the agency providing such services and commodities and shall be available for the purposes for which such appropriation, account, or fund is authorized to be used.

(b) Consultation in development and implementation of assistance The Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor shall be consulted in the determinations of the foreign countries that will be furnished assistance under this part and determinations of the nature of assistance to be furnished to each such country.

(c) Arms and ammunition; value of equipment and commodities

(1) Arms and ammunition may be provided under this part only if they are directly related to antiterrorism assistance.

(2) The value (in terms of original acquisition cost) of all equipment and commodities provided under this part in any fiscal year shall not exceed 30 percent of the funds made available to carry out this part for that fiscal year.

(d) Information exchange activities This part does not apply to information exchange activities conducted by agencies of the United States Government under other authority for such purposes.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. II, § 573, as added [Pub. L. 98–151, § 101(b)(2)](/us/pl/98/151/s101/b/2), Nov. 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 972](/us/stat/97/972); amended [Pub. L. 99–83, title V, § 501(b)](/us/pl/99/83/tV/s501/b), (c), Aug. 8, 1985, [99 Stat. 220](/us/stat/99/220); [Pub. L. 99–399, title V, § 507](/us/pl/99/399/tV/s507), Aug. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 873](/us/stat/100/873); [Pub. L. 101–604, title II, § 213(b)](/us/pl/101/604/tII/s213/b), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3086](/us/stat/104/3086); [Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 162(e)(3)](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s162/e/3), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 405](/us/stat/108/405); [Pub. L. 104–132, title III, § 328(a)](/us/pl/104/132/tIII/s328/a), Apr. 24, 1996, [110 Stat. 1257](/us/stat/110/1257); [Pub. L. 104–164, title I, § 121(b)](/us/pl/104/164/tI/s121/b), July 21, 1996, [110 Stat. 1428](/us/stat/110/1428).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424), known as the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

The Arms Export Control Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/82/1320), which is classified principally to chapter 39 (§ 2751 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2751 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2751) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Section 573 of Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195/s573) is based on section 201 of title II of H.R. 2992, Ninety-eighth Congress, as reported May 17, 1983, and enacted into law by [Pub. L. 98–151](/us/pl/98/151).

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–164, § 121(b)(1)](/us/pl/104/164/s121/b/1), substituted “Limitations” for “Specific authorities and limitations” as section catchline.

Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 104–164, § 121(b)(2)](/us/pl/104/164/s121/b/2), (3), redesignated subsecs. (b) and (c) as (a) and (b), respectively, and struck out former subsec. (a) which read as follows: “Notwithstanding [section 2420 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2420), services and commodities may be granted for the purposes of this part to eligible foreign countries, subject to reimbursement of the value thereof (within the meaning of [section 2403(m) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2403/m)) pursuant to [section 2392 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2392) from funds available to carry out this part.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 104–164, § 121(b)(4)](/us/pl/104/164/s121/b/4), which directed the amendment of subsec. (c) by striking out pars. (1) and (2), redesignating pars. (3) to (5) as (1) to (3), respectively, and amending par. (2) generally, could not be executed because subsec. (c) [formerly (d)] did not contain pars. (3) to (5) subsequent to amendment by [Pub. L. 104–132, § 328(a)(2)](/us/pl/104/132/s328/a/2), see below.

[Pub. L. 104–164, § 121(b)(3)](/us/pl/104/164/s121/b/3), redesignated subsec. (d) as (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (b).

[Pub. L. 104–132, § 328(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/132/s328/a/1), struck out “development and implementation of the antiterrorism assistance program under this part, including” after “shall be consulted in the”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 104–164, § 121(b)(3)](/us/pl/104/164/s121/b/3), redesignated subsecs. (e) as (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (c).

[Pub. L. 104–132, § 328(a)(2)](/us/pl/104/132/s328/a/2), amended subsec. (d) generally, substituting pars. (1) and (2) for former pars. (1) to (5) which related to location for training and advice, law enforcement personnel training, availability of items on United States Munitions List, and services, equipment, personnel, and facilities involved in collection of intelligence.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 104–164, § 121(b)(3)](/us/pl/104/164/s121/b/3), which directed redesignation of subsec. (f) as (e), could not be executed because of prior amendment by [Pub. L. 104–132, § 328(a)(3)](/us/pl/104/132/s328/a/3), see below. Former subsec. (e) redesignated (d).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 104–132, § 328(a)(3)](/us/pl/104/132/s328/a/3), struck out subsec. (f) which read as follows: “Funds made available to carry out this part may not be used for personnel compensation or benefits.”

1994—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) substituted “Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor” for “Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs”.

1990—Subsec. (d)(1) to (3). [Pub. L. 101–604](/us/pl/101/604) added pars. (1) to (3) and struck out former pars. (1) to (3) which read as follows:

“(1) Training services provided pursuant to this part shall not be conducted outside the United States.

“(2) Personnel of the United States Government authorized to advise eligible foreign countries on anti­terrorism matters shall carry out their responsibilities, to the maximum extent possible, within the United States. Such personnel may provide advice outside the United States on antiterrorism matters to eligible foreign countries for periods not to exceed thirty consecutive calendar days.

“(3) Employees of the Department of State shall not engage in the training of law enforcement personnel or provision of services under this part, except that employees of the Office of Security of the Department of State may provide training and services to law enforcement personnel for the physical protection of internationally protected persons and related facilities.”

1986—Subsec. (d)(4). [Pub. L. 99–399](/us/pl/99/399), in amending par. (4) generally, included articles in category X and articles in par. (b), (c), or (d) of category XIII as articles on the United States Munitions List which could be made available, struck out availability of articles only for fiscal years 1986 and 1987, substituted provision that the value in any fiscal year not exceed 25 percent of the funds available to carry out this part for that fiscal year for provision that the value not exceed $325,000 in fiscal year 1986 or 1987, and provided that no shock batons or similar devices be provided under this part.

1985—Subsec. (d)(4). [Pub. L. 99–83, § 501(b)](/us/pl/99/83/s501/b), in amending par. (4) generally, designated existing provisions as subpar. (A), inserted provisions excepting subpar. (B), and added subpars. (B) and (C).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 99–83, § 501(c)](/us/pl/99/83/s501/c), added subsec. (f).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) applicable with respect to officials, offices, and bureaus of Department of State when executive orders, regulations, or departmental directives implementing the amendments by sections 161 and 162 of [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) become effective, or 90 days after Apr. 30, 1994, whichever comes earlier, see [section 161(b) of Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236/s161/b), as amended, set out as a note under [section 2651a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651a).

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–83](/us/pl/99/83) effective Oct. 1, 1985, see [section 1301 of Pub. L. 99–83](/us/pl/99/83/s1301), set out as a note under [section 2151–1 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151–1).

#### Authority of Secretary of State

Except as otherwise provided, Secretary of State to have and exercise any authority vested by law in any official or office of Department of State and references to such officials or offices deemed to refer to Secretary of State or Department of State, as appropriate, see [section 2651a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651a) and [section 161(d) of Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236/s161/d), set out as a note under [section 2651a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651a).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
