---
title: "§ 80a–49. Construction with other laws"
identifier: "USC-T15-S80a–49"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section80a–49"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686](/us/act/1940-08-22/ch686), title I, § 50, [54 Stat. 846](/us/stat/54/846); [Pub. L. 111–203, title IX, § 986(c)(4)](/us/pl/111/203/tIX/s986/c/4), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1936](/us/stat/124/1936).)"
---
# § 80a–49. Construction with other laws

##### § 80a–49. Construction with other laws

Except where specific provision is made to the contrary, nothing in this subchapter shall affect (1) the jurisdiction of the Commission under the Securities Act of 1933 [[15 U.S.C. 77a](/us/usc/t15/s77a) et seq.], the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [[15 U.S.C. 78a](/us/usc/t15/s78a) et seq.], the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 [[15 U.S.C. 77aaa](/us/usc/t15/s77aaa) et seq.], or subchapter II of this chapter, over any person, security, or transaction, or (2) the rights, obligations, duties, or liabilities of any person under such Acts; nor shall anything in this subchapter affect the jurisdiction of any other commission, board, agency, or officer of the United States or of any State or political subdivision of any State, over any person, security, or transaction, insofar as such jurisdiction does not conflict with any provision of this subchapter or of any rule, regulation, or order hereunder.

*([Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686](/us/act/1940-08-22/ch686), title I, § 50, [54 Stat. 846](/us/stat/54/846); [Pub. L. 111–203, title IX, § 986(c)(4)](/us/pl/111/203/tIX/s986/c/4), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1936](/us/stat/124/1936).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Securities Act of 1933, referred to in text, is [act May 27, 1933, ch. 38, title I](/us/act/1933-05-27/ch38/tI), [48 Stat. 74](/us/stat/48/74), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 77a et seq.) of chapter 2A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 77a of this title](/us/usc/t15/s77a) and Tables.

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in text, is [act June 6, 1934, ch. 404](/us/act/1934-06-06/ch404), [48 Stat. 881](/us/stat/48/881), which is classified principally to chapter 2B (§ 78a et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 78a of this title](/us/usc/t15/s78a) and Tables.

The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, referred to in text, is title III of [act May 27, 1933, ch. 38](/us/act/1933-05-27/ch38), as added [Aug. 3, 1939, ch. 411](/us/act/1939-08-03/ch411), [53 Stat. 1149](/us/stat/53/1149), which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 77aaa et seq.) of chapter 2A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 77aaa of this title](/us/usc/t15/s77aaa) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) struck out “the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935,” after “the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 5301 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s5301), Banks and Banking.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of Securities and Exchange Commission, with certain exceptions, to Chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 10 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, [64 Stat. 1265](/us/stat/64/1265), set out under [section 78d of this title](/us/usc/t15/s78d).
