---
title: "§ 2071. Inland navigation rules"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2071"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2071"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–591, § 3](/us/pl/96/591/s3), Dec. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 3433](/us/stat/94/3433); [Pub. L. 108–293, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/108/293/tIII/s303/b), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1042](/us/stat/118/1042).)"
---
# § 2071. Inland navigation rules

##### § 2071. Inland navigation rules

The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating may issue inland navigation regulations applicable to all vessels upon the inland waters of the United States and technical annexes that are as consistent as possible with the respective annexes to the International Regulations.

*([Pub. L. 96–591, § 3](/us/pl/96/591/s3), Dec. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 3433](/us/stat/94/3433); [Pub. L. 108–293, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/108/293/tIII/s303/b), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1042](/us/stat/118/1042).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The International Regulations, referred to in text, came into effect pursuant to the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972. See International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972 note under [section 1602 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1602).

#### Amendments

2004—[Pub. L. 108–293](/us/pl/108/293) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary may issue regulations necessary to implement and interpret this chapter. The Secretary shall establish the following technical annexes to these Rules: Annex I, Positioning and Technical Details of Lights and Shapes; Annex II, Additional Signals for Fishing Vessels Fishing in Close Proximity; Annex III, Technical Details of Sound Appliances; and Annex IV, Distress Signals. These annexes shall be as consistent as possible with the respective annexes to the International Regulations. The Secretary may establish other technical annexes, including local pilot rules.”
