---
title: "§ 12495. Right to report crime and emergencies from one’s home"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12495"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12495"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41415](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41415), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVI/s603), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 885](/us/stat/136/885).)"
---
# § 12495. Right to report crime and emergencies from one’s home

##### § 12495. Right to report crime and emergencies from one’s home

(a) Definition In this section, the term “covered governmental entity” means any municipal, county, or State government that receives funding under [section 5306 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5306).

(b) Right to report

(1) In general Landlords, homeowners, tenants, residents, occupants, and guests of, and applicants for, housing—

(A) shall have the right to seek law enforcement or emergency assistance on their own behalf or on behalf of another person in need of assistance; and

(B) shall not be penalized based on their requests for assistance or based on criminal activity of which they are a victim or otherwise not at fault under statutes, ordinances, regulations, or policies adopted or enforced by covered governmental entities.

(2) Prohibited penalties Penalties that are prohibited under paragraph (1) include—

(A) actual or threatened assessment of monetary or criminal penalties, fines, or fees;

(B) actual or threatened eviction;

(C) actual or threatened refusal to rent or renew tenancy;

(D) actual or threatened refusal to issue an occupancy permit or landlord permit; and

(E) actual or threatened closure of the property, or designation of the property as a nuisance or a similarly negative designation.

(c) Reporting Consistent with the process described in [section 5304(b) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5304/b), covered governmental entities shall—

(1) report any of their laws or policies, or, as applicable, the laws or policies adopted by subgrantees, that impose penalties on landlords, homeowners, tenants, residents, occupants, guests, or housing applicants based on requests for law enforcement or emergency assistance or based on criminal activity that occurred at a property; and

(2) certify that they are in compliance with the protections under this part or describe the steps the covered governmental entities will take within 180 days to come into compliance, or to ensure compliance among subgrantees.

(d) Implementation The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Attorney General shall implement and enforce this subpart consistent with, and in a manner that provides, the same rights and remedies as those provided for in title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3601](/us/usc/t42/s3601) et seq.).

(e) Subgrantees For those covered governmental entities that distribute funds to subgrantees, compliance with subsection (c)(1) includes inquiring about the existence of laws and policies adopted by subgrantees that impose penalties on landlords, homeowners, tenants, residents, occupants, guests, or housing applicants based on requests for law enforcement or emergency assistance or based on criminal activity that occurred at a property.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41415](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41415), as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVI/s603), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 885](/us/stat/136/885).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Civil Rights Act of 1968, referred to in subsec. (d), is [Pub. L. 90–284](/us/pl/90/284), Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 73](/us/stat/82/73). Title VIII of the Act, known as the Fair Housing Act, is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 3601 et seq.) of chapter 45 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3601 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3601) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVI/s603), which directed the addition of this section to chapter 2 of subtitle N of title IV of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 ([34 U.S.C. 12491](/us/usc/t34/s12491) et seq.), was executed by adding this section to chapter 2 of subtitle N of title IV of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.
