---
title: "§ 10207. Mobilization forces: maintenance"
identifier: "USC-T10-S10207"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section10207"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1661(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1661/a/1), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2977](/us/stat/108/2977).)"
---
# § 10207. Mobilization forces: maintenance

##### § 10207. Mobilization forces: maintenance

(a) Whenever units or members of the reserve components are ordered to active duty (other than for training) during a period of partial mobilization, the Secretary concerned shall continue to maintain mobilization forces by planning and budgeting for the continued organization and training of the reserve components not mobilized, and make the fullest practicable use of the Federal facilities vacated by mobilized units, consistent with approved joint mobilization plans.

(b) In this section, the term “partial mobilization” means the mobilization resulting from action by Congress or the President, under any law, to bring units of any reserve component, and members not assigned to units organized to serve as units, to active duty for a limited expansion of the active armed forces.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1661(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1661/a/1), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2977](/us/stat/108/2977).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 276 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s276), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–337, § 1661(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/103/337/s1661/a/2/A).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 1, 1994, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1691 of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691), set out as a note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).
