---
title: "§ 460l–33. Management of reclamation lands"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460l–33"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460l–33"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–575, title XXVIII, § 2805](/us/pl/102/575/tXXVIII/s2805), Oct. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 4692](/us/stat/106/4692).)"
---
# § 460l–33. Management of reclamation lands

##### § 460l–33. Management of reclamation lands

(a) Administration

(1) Upon a determination that any such fee, charge, or commission is reasonable and appropriate, the Secretary acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, is authorized to establish—

(A) filing fees for applications and other documents concerning entry upon and use of Reclamation lands;

(B) recreation user fees; and

(C) charges or commissions for the use of Reclamation lands.

(2) The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, shall promulgate such regulations as the Secretary determines to be necessary—

(A) to carry out the provisions of this section and section 460*l*–34 of this title;

(B) to ensure the protection, comfort, and well-being of the public (including the protection of public safety) with respect to the use of Reclamation lands; and

(C) to ensure the protection of resource values.

(b) Inventory The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, is authorized to—

(1) prepare and maintain on a continuing basis an inventory of resources and uses made of Reclamation lands and resources, keep records of such inventory, and make such records available to the public; and

(2) ascertain the boundaries of Reclamation lands and provide a means for public identification (including, where appropriate, providing signs and maps).

(c) Planning

(1)

(A) 11 So in original. No par. (2) has been enacted. The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, is authorized to develop, maintain, and revise resource management plans for Reclamation lands.

(B) Each plan described in subparagraph (A)—

(i) shall be consistent with applicable laws (including any applicable statute, regulation, or Executive order);

(ii) shall be developed in consultation with—

(I) such heads of Federal and non-Federal departments or agencies as the Secretary determines to be appropriate; and

(II) the authorized beneficiaries (as determined by the Secretary) of any Reclamation project included in the plan; and

(iii) shall be developed with appropriate public participation.

(C) Each plan described in subparagraph (A) shall provide for the development, use, conservation, protection, enhancement, and management of resources of Reclamation lands in a manner that is compatible with the authorized purposes of the Reclamation project associated with the Reclamation lands.

(d) Nonreimbursable funds Funds expended by the Secretary in carrying out the provisions of this part shall be nonreimbursable under the Federal reclamation laws (the Act of June 17, 1902 ([32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), chapter 1093; [43 U.S.C. 371](/us/usc/t43/s371)),22 See References in Text note below. and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof).

*([Pub. L. 102–575, title XXVIII, § 2805](/us/pl/102/575/tXXVIII/s2805), Oct. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 4692](/us/stat/106/4692).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in subsec. (d), was in the original “this title”, meaning title XXVIII of [Pub. L. 102–575](/us/pl/102/575), Oct. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 4690](/us/stat/106/4690), which enacted sections 460*l*–31 to 460*l*–34 of this title and amended sections 460*l*–13 to 460*l*–15 and 460*l*–18 of this title.

Act of June 17, 1902, referred to in subsec. (d), is [act June 17, 1902, ch. 1093](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093), [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to chapter 12 (§ 371 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. However, [section 371 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s371) is [act Dec. 5, 1924, ch. 4, § 4](/us/act/1924-12-05/ch4/s4), subsec. A, [43 Stat. 701](/us/stat/43/701). For complete classification of act June 17, 1902, to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.
