---
title: "§ 1607. National Forest System renewable resources; development and administration by Secretary in accordance with multiple use and sustained yield concepts for products and services; target year for operational posture of resources; budget requests"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1607"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1607"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–378, § 9](/us/pl/93/378/s9), formerly § 8, Aug. 17, 1974, [88 Stat. 479](/us/stat/88/479), renumbered § 9, [Pub. L. 94–588, § 2](/us/pl/94/588/s2), Oct. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 2949](/us/stat/90/2949); amended [Pub. L. 115–141, div. O, title II, § 208(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/141/dO/tII/s208/b/2), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1066](/us/stat/132/1066); [Pub. L. 117–58, div. G, title III, § 70302(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dG/tIII/s70302/a/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1260](/us/stat/135/1260).)"
---
# § 1607. National Forest System renewable resources; development and administration by Secretary in accordance with multiple use and sustained yield concepts for products and services; target year for operational posture of resources; budget requests

##### § 1607. National Forest System renewable resources; development and administration by Secretary in accordance with multiple use and sustained yield concepts for products and services; target year for operational posture of resources; budget requests

The Secretary shall take such action as will assure that the development and administration of the renewable resources of the National Forest System are in full accord with the concepts for multiple use and sustained yield of products and services as set forth in the Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act of 1960 [[16 U.S.C. 528–531](/us/usc/t16/s528–531)]. To further these concepts, the Congress hereby sets the year 2030 as the target year when the renewable resources of the National Forest System shall be in an operating posture whereby all backlogs of needed treatment for their restoration shall be reduced to a current basis and the major portion of planned intensive multiple-use sustained-yield management procedures shall be installed and operating on an environmentally-sound basis. The annual budget shall contain requests for funds for an orderly program to eliminate such backlogs: *Provided*, That when the Secretary finds that (1) the backlog of areas that will benefit by such treatment has been eliminated, (2) the cost of treating the remainder of such area exceeds the economic and environmental benefits to be secured from their treatment, or (3) the total supplies of the renewable resources of the United States are adequate to meet the future needs of the American people, the budget request for these elements of restoration may be adjusted accordingly.

*([Pub. L. 93–378, § 9](/us/pl/93/378/s9), formerly § 8, Aug. 17, 1974, [88 Stat. 479](/us/stat/88/479), renumbered § 9, [Pub. L. 94–588, § 2](/us/pl/94/588/s2), Oct. 22, 1976, [90 Stat. 2949](/us/stat/90/2949); amended [Pub. L. 115–141, div. O, title II, § 208(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/141/dO/tII/s208/b/2), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1066](/us/stat/132/1066); [Pub. L. 117–58, div. G, title III, § 70302(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dG/tIII/s70302/a/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1260](/us/stat/135/1260).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act of 1960, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 86–517](/us/pl/86/517), June 12, 1960, [74 Stat. 215](/us/stat/74/215), which is classified generally to sections 528 to 531 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 528 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s528) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) substituted “year 2030” for “year 2000”.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–141](/us/pl/115/141) substituted “Secretary shall take” for “Secretary of Agriculture shall take”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of Agriculture under this subchapter to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1601).
