---
title: "§ 9652. Effective dates; savings provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9652"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9652"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–510, title III, § 302](/us/pl/96/510/tIII/s302), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2808](/us/stat/94/2808).)"
---
# § 9652. Effective dates; savings provisions

##### § 9652. Effective dates; savings provisions

(a) Unless otherwise provided, all provisions of this chapter shall be effective on December 11, 1980.

(b) Any regulation issued pursuant to any provisions of [section 1321 of title 33](/us/usc/t33/s1321) which is repealed or superseded by this chapter and which is in effect on the date immediately preceding the effective date of this chapter shall be deemed to be a regulation issued pursuant to the authority of this chapter and shall remain in full force and effect unless or until superseded by new regulations issued thereunder.

(c) Any regulation—

(1) respecting financial responsibility,

(2) issued pursuant to any provision of law repealed or superseded by this chapter, and

(3) in effect on the date immediately preceding the effective date of this chapter shall be deemed to be a regulation issued pursuant to the authority of this chapter and shall remain in full force and effect unless or until superseded by new regulations issued thereunder.

(d) Nothing in this chapter shall affect or modify in any way the obligations or liabilities of any person under other Federal or State law, including common law, with respect to releases of hazardous substances or other pollutants or contaminants. The provisions of this chapter shall not be considered, interpreted, or construed in any way as reflecting a determination, in part or whole, of policy regarding the inapplicability of strict liability, or strict liability doctrines, to activities relating to hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants or other such activities.

*([Pub. L. 96–510, title III, § 302](/us/pl/96/510/tIII/s302), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2808](/us/stat/94/2808).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b), (c)(2), (3), and (d), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 96–510](/us/pl/96/510), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2767](/us/stat/94/2767), known as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9601 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9601) and Tables.
