---
title: "§ 510. Forfeiture of communications devices"
identifier: "USC-T47-S510"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section510"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title V, § 510, as added [Pub. L. 97–259, title I, § 125](/us/pl/97/259/tI/s125), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1098](/us/stat/96/1098).)"
---
# § 510. Forfeiture of communications devices

##### § 510. Forfeiture of communications devices

(a) Violation with willful and knowing intent Any electronic, electromagnetic, radio frequency, or similar device, or component thereof, used, sent, carried, manufactured, assembled, possessed, offered for sale, sold, or advertised with willful and knowing intent to violate section 301 or 302a of this title, or rules prescribed by the Commission under such sections, may be seized and forfeited to the United States.

(b) Seizure Any property subject to forfeiture to the United States under this section may be seized by the Attorney General of the United States upon process issued pursuant to the supplemental rules for certain admiralty and maritime claims by any district court of the United States having jurisdiction over the property, except that seizure without such process may be made if the seizure is incident to a lawful arrest or search.

(c) Laws applicable to seizure and forfeiture All provisions of law relating to—

shall apply to seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged to have been incurred, under the provisions of this section, insofar as applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this section, except that such seizures and forfeitures shall be limited to the communications device, devices, or components thereof.

(1) the seizure, summary and judicial forfeiture, and condemnation of property for violation of the customs laws;

(2) the disposition of such property or the proceeds from the sale thereof;

(3) the remission or mitigation of such forfeitures; and

(4) the compromise of claims with respect to such forfeitures;

(d) Disposition of forfeited property Whenever property is forfeited under this section, the Attorney General of the United States may forward it to the Commission or sell any forfeited property which is not harmful to the public. The proceeds from any such sale shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury of the United States.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title V, § 510, as added [Pub. L. 97–259, title I, § 125](/us/pl/97/259/tI/s125), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1098](/us/stat/96/1098).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The supplemental rules for certain admiralty and maritime claims, referred to in subsec. (b), were renamed the Supplemental Rules for Admiralty or Maritime Claims and Asset Forfeiture Actions and are set out as part of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 510, [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652, title V, § 510](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652/tV/s510), as added May 11, 1962, [Pub. L. 87–448, § 1](/us/pl/87/448/s1), [76 Stat. 68](/us/stat/76/68), related to forfeitures for violations of rules and regulations by radio stations operating in common carrier, safety and special radio fields, prior to repeal effective the thirtieth day after Feb. 21, 1978, by [Pub. L. 95–234](/us/pl/95/234), §§ 4, 7, Feb. 21, 1978, [92 Stat. 35](/us/stat/92/35).
