---
title: "§ 2621. Study and recommendations"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2621"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2621"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–688, title IV, § 4201](/us/pl/100/688/tIV/s4201), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4159](/us/stat/102/4159).)"
---
# § 2621. Study and recommendations

##### § 2621. Study and recommendations

(a) Study The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall conduct a study to determine the need for, and effectiveness of additional tracking systems for vessels to assure that municipal or commercial waste is not deposited in coastal waters. In conducting this study, the Administrator shall use the data collected from its permitting and enforcement activities under this chapter. In determining the effectiveness of tracking systems, the Administrator shall rely on the information provided by the Secretary under subsection (b) of this section. The report shall include a recommendation whether additional tracking systems are needed. This study shall be submitted to Congress within 24 months after November 18, 1988.

(b) Recommendations The Secretary shall provide recommendations to the Administrator concerning the various tracking systems that might be applicable to vessels transporting municipal or commercial waste which the Secretary currently is studying. The Secretary shall consider the relative effectiveness of various systems and the relative costs of the systems both to the United States Government and to the vessel owner.

*([Pub. L. 100–688, title IV, § 4201](/us/pl/100/688/tIV/s4201), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4159](/us/stat/102/4159).)*
