---
title: "§ 1556. Bonded warehouses; regulations for establishing"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1556"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1556"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 556, [46 Stat. 743](/us/stat/46/743).)"
---
# § 1556. Bonded warehouses; regulations for establishing

##### § 1556. Bonded warehouses; regulations for establishing

The Secretary of the Treasury shall from time to time establish such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the establishment of bonded warehouses and to protect the interests of the Government in the conduct, management, and operation of such warehouses and in the withdrawal of and accounting for merchandise deposited therein.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 556, [46 Stat. 743](/us/stat/46/743).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 556](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s556), [42 Stat. 976](/us/stat/42/976). That section was superseded by section 556 of act June 17, 1930, comprising this section, and repealed by section 651(a)(1) of the 1930 act.

Prior provisions on the subject matter of this section were contained in R.S. § 2989, as amended by [act Feb. 27, 1877, ch. 69, § 1](/us/act/1877-02-27/ch69/s1), [19 Stat. 247](/us/stat/19/247), authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to establish rules and regulations for the execution of the provisions of that chapter (chapter 7 of Title 34 of the Revised Statutes, The Bond and Warehouse System); and in [act June 22, 1874, ch. 391, § 24](/us/act/1874-06-22/ch391/s24), [18 Stat. 191](/us/stat/18/191), authorizing the Secretary to make regulations for the conduct and management of bonded warehouses, general order stores and other depositories, and to revise, alter or revoke regulations or orders, issued by collectors, prohibiting the bonding of warehouses or the establishment of general order stores without his authority and approval, and making it his duty to require warehouses to be located contiguous, or as near as might be, to landing places of vessels. These sections were repealed by [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV), §§ 642, 643, [42 Stat. 989](/us/stat/42/989).
