---
title: "§ 290g–11. Additional authorization for payment of United States contribution"
identifier: "USC-T22-S290g–11"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section290g–11"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–302, title II, § 212](/us/pl/94/302/tII/s212), as added [Pub. L. 96–259, title III, § 301(2)](/us/pl/96/259/tIII/s301/2), June 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 430](/us/stat/94/430).)"
---
# § 290g–11. Additional authorization for payment of United States contribution

##### § 290g–11. Additional authorization for payment of United States contribution

(a) United States share The United States Governor of the Fund is authorized to contribute on behalf of the United States $125,000,000 to the Fund as the United States contribution to the second replenishment of the resources of the Fund, except that any commitment to make such contribution shall be made subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations.

(b) Authorization of appropriations In order to pay for the United States contribution provided for in this section, there is authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $125,000,000 for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(c) Funding requirements For the purpose of keeping to a minimum the cost to the United States, the Secretary of the Treasury—

(1) shall pay the United States contribution to the African Development Fund authorized by this section by letter of credit in three annual installments; and

(2) shall take the steps necessary to obtain a certification from the Fund that any undisbursed balances resulting from draw-downs on such letter of credit will not exceed at any time the United States share of expected disbursement requirements for the following three-month period.

*([Pub. L. 94–302, title II, § 212](/us/pl/94/302/tII/s212), as added [Pub. L. 96–259, title III, § 301(2)](/us/pl/96/259/tIII/s301/2), June 3, 1980, [94 Stat. 430](/us/stat/94/430).)*
