---
title: "§ 9304. Comprehensive program management plan; submittal to Congressional committees"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–386, § 5](/us/pl/96/386/s5), Oct. 7, 1980, [94 Stat. 1541](/us/stat/94/1541).)"
---
# § 9304. Comprehensive program management plan; submittal to Congressional committees

##### § 9304. Comprehensive program management plan; submittal to Congressional committees

(a) The Secretary shall prepare a comprehensive program management plan for the conduct of the research, development, and demonstration activities under this chapter. Such plan shall include at a minimum—

(1) a presentation of the program strategy which will be used to achieve the purposes of this chapter;

(2) a five-year program implementation schedule, including identification of detailed milestone goals, with associated budget and program resources requirements;

(3) risk assessments;

(4) supporting research and development needed to solve problems which may inhibit or limit development of magnetic fusion energy systems; and

(5) an analysis of institutional, environmental, and economic considerations which are limiting the national magnetic fusion program.

(b) The Secretary shall transmit the comprehensive program management plan to the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate not later than January 1, 1982.

*([Pub. L. 96–386, § 5](/us/pl/96/386/s5), Oct. 7, 1980, [94 Stat. 1541](/us/stat/94/1541).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.
