---
title: "§ 508. Reenlistment: qualifications"
identifier: "USC-T10-S508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–235, § 2(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/90/235/s2/a/1/B), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 755](/us/stat/81/755); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 924(b)(5)(C)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s924/b/5/C), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3822](/us/stat/134/3822); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1717(b)(4)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1717/b/4), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 655](/us/stat/137/655).)"
---
# § 508. Reenlistment: qualifications

##### § 508. Reenlistment: qualifications

(a) No person whose service during his last term of enlistment was not honest and faithful may be reenlisted in an armed force. However, the Secretary concerned may authorize the reenlistment in the armed force under his jurisdiction of such a person if his conduct after that service has been good.

(b) A person discharged from a Regular component may be reenlisted in the Regular Army, Regular Navy, Regular Air Force, Regular Marine Corps, Space Force, or Regular Coast Guard, as the case may be, under such regulations as the Secretary concerned may prescribe.

(c) This section does not deprive a person of any right to be reenlisted in the Regular Army, Regular Navy, Regular Air Force, Regular Marine Corps, Space Force, or Regular Coast Guard under any other provision of law.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–235, § 2(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/90/235/s2/a/1/B), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 755](/us/stat/81/755); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 924(b)(5)(C)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s924/b/5/C), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3822](/us/stat/134/3822); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1717(b)(4)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1717/b/4), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 655](/us/stat/137/655).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) struck out “Regular” before “Space Force”.

2021—Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “Regular Marine Corps, Regular Space Force,” for “Regular Marine Corps,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
