---
title: "§ 1771. General Accounting Office study"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1771"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1771"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–173, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/107/173/tVI/s602), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 564](/us/stat/116/564).)"
---
# § 1771. General Accounting Office study

##### § 1771. General Accounting Office study

(a) Requirement for study

(1) In general The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study to determine the feasibility and utility of implementing a requirement that each nonimmigrant alien in the United States submit to the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization each year a current address and, where applicable, the name and address of an employer.

(2) Nonimmigrant alien defined In paragraph (1), the term “nonimmigrant alien” means an alien described in [section 1101(a)(15) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101/a/15).

(b) Report Not later than 1 year after May 14, 2002, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the study under subsection (a). The report shall include the Comptroller General’s findings, together with any recommendations that the Comptroller General considers appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 107–173, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/107/173/tVI/s602), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 564](/us/stat/116/564).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

General Accounting Office redesignated Government Accountability Office by [section 8 of Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271/s8), set out as a note under [section 702 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s702), Money and Finance.

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1551).
