---
title: "§ 1805. Deputy Architect of the Capitol"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1805"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1805"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1203](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1203), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 373](/us/stat/117/373); [Pub. L. 108–11, title II, § 2601(a)](/us/pl/108/11/tII/s2601/a), Apr. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 599](/us/stat/117/599); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814); [Pub. L. 111–316, § 1(b)](/us/pl/111/316/s1/b), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3452](/us/stat/124/3452); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. O, title VII, § 701(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dO/tVI"
---
# § 1805. Deputy Architect of the Capitol

##### § 1805. Deputy Architect of the Capitol

(a) Establishment of Deputy Architect of the Capitol The Architect of the Capitol (in this section referred to as the “Architect”) shall appoint a suitable individual to be the Deputy Architect of the Capitol (in this section referred to as the “Deputy Architect”). The Architect may delegate to the Deputy Architect such duties as the Architect determines are necessary or appropriate.

(b) Deadline The Architect shall appoint a Deputy Architect under subsection (a) not later than 120 days after—

(1) the date on which the Architect is appointed under [section 1801a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1801a), if there is no Deputy Architect on the date of the appointment; or

(2) the date on which a vacancy arises in the office of the Deputy Architect.

(c) Compensation The Deputy Architect shall be paid at an annual rate of pay to be determined by the Architect but not to exceed $1,500 less than the annual rate of pay for the Architect.

(d) Failure to appoint If the Architect does not appoint a Deputy Architect on or before the applicable date specified in subsection (b), the congressional commission described in [section 1801a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1801a/a) shall appoint the Deputy Architect by a majority vote of the members of the commission.

(e) Notification If the position of Deputy Architect becomes vacant, the Architect shall immediately notify the members of the congressional commission described in [section 1801a(a) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1801a/a).

*([Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1203](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1203), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 373](/us/stat/117/373); [Pub. L. 108–11, title II, § 2601(a)](/us/pl/108/11/tII/s2601/a), Apr. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 599](/us/stat/117/599); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814); [Pub. L. 111–316, § 1(b)](/us/pl/111/316/s1/b), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3452](/us/stat/124/3452); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. O, title VII, § 701(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dO/tVII/s701/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2154](/us/stat/134/2154); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. E, title LVII, § 5703](/us/pl/118/31/dE/tLVII/s5703), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 961](/us/stat/137/961).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003, which is div. H of [Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7).

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 5703(1)](/us/pl/118/31/s5703/1), inserted “(in this section referred to as the ‘Architect’)” after “The Architect of the Capitol” and “(in this section referred to as the ‘Deputy Architect’)” after “Deputy Architect of the Capitol”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 5703(3)](/us/pl/118/31/s5703/3), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 5703(2)](/us/pl/118/31/s5703/2), (4), redesignated subsec. (b) as (c) and struck out “of the Capitol” after “The Deputy Architect” and after “pay for the Architect”.

Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 5703(5)](/us/pl/118/31/s5703/5), added subsecs. (d) and (e).

2020—[Pub. L. 116–260, § 701(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/260/s701/b/1), substituted “Capitol” for “Capitol/Chief Operating Officer” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 701(b)(2)](/us/pl/116/260/s701/b/2), inserted text of subsec. (a) and struck out former text of subsec. (a) which read as follows: “There shall be a Deputy Architect of the Capitol who shall serve as the Chief Operating Officer of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol. The Deputy Architect of the Capitol shall be appointed by the Architect of the Capitol and shall report directly to the Architect of the Capitol and shall be subject to the authority of the Architect of the Capitol. The Architect of the Capitol shall appoint the Deputy Architect of the Capitol not later than 180 days after February 20, 2003. The Architect of the Capitol shall consult with the Comptroller General or his designee before making the appointment.”

Subsecs. (b) to (h). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 701(b)(3)](/us/pl/116/260/s701/b/3), (4), redesignated subsec. (h) as (b) and struck out former subsecs. (b) to (g) which related to Deputy Architect qualifications and responsibilities, submission of an action plan and annual evaluation of its implementation, and removal of the Deputy Architect.

Subsecs. (i), (j). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 702(b)(5)](/us/pl/116/260/s702/b/5), struck out subsecs. (i) and (j) which required the Deputy Architect to prepare and transmit an annual performance report and terminated the role of the Comptroller General and the Government Accountability Office in this section as of Oct. 1, 2006.

2010—Subsec. (e)(3). [Pub. L. 111–316](/us/pl/111/316) struck out par. (3). Text read as follows: “Notwithstanding [section 1849(a) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1849/a), as amended by section 129(c) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2002, the Architect of the Capitol may fix the rate of basic pay for not more than 3 additional positions at a rate not to exceed the highest total rate of pay for the Senior Executive Service under subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of title 5 for the locality involved.”

2004—Subsecs. (f), (j). [Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271) substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office”.

2003—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–11](/us/pl/108/11), substituted “not later than 180 days” for “not later than 90 days”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–316, § 1(c)](/us/pl/111/316/s1/c), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3452](/us/stat/124/3452), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and [section 1849 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1849)] shall apply with respect to pay periods beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 18, 2010].”

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–11, title II, § 2601(b)](/us/pl/108/11/tII/s2601/b), Apr. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 599](/us/stat/117/599), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 [[Pub. L. 108–7, div. H](/us/pl/108/7/dH)].”
