---
title: "§ 2996. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2996"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2996"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–452, title X, § 1001](/us/pl/88/452/tX/s1001), as added [Pub. L. 93–355, § 2](/us/pl/93/355/s2), July 25, 1974, [88 Stat. 378](/us/stat/88/378); amended [Pub. L. 95–222, § 2](/us/pl/95/222/s2), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1619](/us/stat/91/1619).)"
---
# § 2996. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose

##### § 2996. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose

(1) there is a need to provide equal access to the system of justice in our Nation for individuals who seek redress of grievances;

(2) there is a need to provide high quality legal assistance to those who would be otherwise unable to afford adequate legal counsel and to continue the present vital legal services program;

(3) providing legal assistance to those who face an economic barrier to adequate legal counsel will serve best the ends of justice and assist in improving opportunities for low-income persons consistent with the purposes of this chapter;

(4) for many of our citizens, the availability of legal services has reaffirmed faith in our government of laws;

(5) to preserve its strength, the legal services program must be kept free from the influence of or use by it of political pressures; and

(6) attorneys providing legal assistance must have full freedom to protect the best interests of their clients in keeping with the Code of Professional Responsibility, the Canons of Ethics, and the high standards of the legal profession.

*([Pub. L. 88–452, title X, § 1001](/us/pl/88/452/tX/s1001), as added [Pub. L. 93–355, § 2](/us/pl/93/355/s2), July 25, 1974, [88 Stat. 378](/us/stat/88/378); amended [Pub. L. 95–222, § 2](/us/pl/95/222/s2), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1619](/us/stat/91/1619).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1977—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 95–222](/us/pl/95/222) inserted provision relating to assistance in improving opportunities for low-income persons consistent with this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

[Pub. L. 95–222, § 17(b)](/us/pl/95/222/s17/b), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1624](/us/stat/91/1624), provided that: “The amendments made by provisions of this Act other than sections 11 and 15 [amending this section and sections 2996c, 2996e, 2996f, 2996g, 2996h, 2996i, and 2996j of this title] shall be effective on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 28, 1977].”

#### Short Title

This subchapter is known as the “Legal Services Corporation Act”, see Short Title note set out under [section 2701 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2701).
