---
title: "§ 463. Programs of compliance; electronic processing of travel claims"
identifier: "USC-T37-S463"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section463"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, § 631(b)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tVI/s631/b), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1459](/us/stat/125/1459).)"
---
# § 463. Programs of compliance; electronic processing of travel claims

##### § 463. Programs of compliance; electronic processing of travel claims

(a) Programs of Compliance.— The administering Secretaries shall provide for compliance with the requirements of this chapter through programs of compliance established and maintained for that purpose.

(b) Elements.— The programs of compliance under subsection (a) shall—

(1) minimize the provision of benefits under this chapter based on inaccurate claims, unauthorized claims, overstated or inflated claims, and multiple claims for the same benefits through the electronic verification of travel claims on a near-time basis and such other means as the administering Secretaries may establish for purposes of the programs of compliance; and

(2) ensure that benefits provided under this chapter do not exceed reasonable or actual and necessary expenses of travel claimed or reasonable allowances based on commercial travel rates.

(c) Electronic Processing of Travel Claims.—

(1) By not later than the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, any travel claim under this chapter shall be processed electronically.

(2) The administering Secretary, or the Secretary’s designee, may waive the requirement in paragraph (1) with respect to a particular claim in the interests of the department concerned.

(3) The electronic processing of claims under this subsection shall be subject to the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense under [section 464 of this title](/us/usc/t37/s464) which shall apply uniformly to all members of the uniformed services and, to the extent practicable, to all other authorized travelers.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, § 631(b)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tVI/s631/b), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1459](/us/stat/125/1459).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 112–81](/us/pl/112/81), which was approved Dec. 31, 2011.
