---
title: "§ 4091. Authorities for certain positions at science and technology reinvention laboratories"
identifier: "USC-T10-S4091"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section4091"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XI, § 1122(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXI/s1122/a/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2453](/us/stat/130/2453), § 2358a; amended [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XI, § 1111](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tXI/s1111), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1636](/us/stat/131/1636); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XI, § 1112(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXI/s1112/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2012](/us/stat/132/2012); renumbered § 4091, [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1843(a)](/us/pl/116/283/d"
---
# § 4091. Authorities for certain positions at science and technology reinvention laboratories

##### § 4091. Authorities for certain positions at science and technology reinvention laboratories

(a) Authority to Make Direct Appointments.—

(1) Candidates for scientific and engineering positions at science and technology reinvention laboratories.— The director of any Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratory (hereinafter in this section referred to as an “STRL”) may appoint qualified candidates possessing a bachelor’s or advanced degree to positions described in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) as an employee in a laboratory described in that paragraph without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5 (other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title).

(2) Veteran candidates for similar positions at research and engineering facilities.— The director of any STRL may appoint qualified veteran candidates to positions described in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) as an employee at a laboratory, agency, or organization specified in that paragraph without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5.

(3) Students enrolled in scientific and engineering programs.— The director of any STRL may appoint qualified candidates enrolled in a program of undergraduate or graduate instruction leading to a bachelor’s or an advanced degree in a scientific, technical, engineering or mathematical course of study at an institution of higher education (as that term is defined in sections 101 and 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001](/us/usc/t20/s1001), 1002)) to positions described in paragraph (3) of subsection (b) as an employee in a laboratory described in that paragraph without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5 (other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title).

(4) Noncompetitive conversion of appointments.— With respect to any student appointed by the director of an STRL under paragraph (3) to a temporary or term appointment, upon graduation from the applicable institution of higher education (as defined in such paragraph), the director may noncompetitively convert such student to another temporary appointment or to a term or permanent appointment within the STRL without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5 (other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title), provided the student meets all eligibility and Office of Personnel Management qualification requirements for the position.

(b) Covered Positions.—

(1) Candidates for scientific and engineering positions.— The positions described in this paragraph are scientific and engineering positions that may be temporary, term, or permanent in any laboratory designated by [section 4121(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4121/b) as a Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratory.

(2) Qualified veteran candidates.— The positions described in this paragraph are scientific, technical, engineering, and mathematics positions, including technicians, in the following:

(A) Any laboratory referred to in paragraph (1).

(B) Any other Department of Defense research and engineering agency or organization designated by the Secretary for purposes of subsection (a)(2).

(3) Candidates enrolled in scientific and engineering programs.— The positions described in this paragraph are scientific and engineering positions that may be temporary or term in any laboratory designated by [section 4121(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4121/b) as a Department of Defense science and technology reinvention laboratory.

(c) Limitation on Number of Appointments Allowable in a Fiscal Year.— The authority under subsection (a) may not, in any fiscal year and with respect to any laboratory, agency, or organization described in subsection (b), be exercised with respect to a number of candidates greater than the following:

(1) In the case of a laboratory described in subsection (b)(1), with respect to appointment authority under subsection (a)(1), the number equal to 11 percent of the total number of scientific and engineering positions in such laboratory that are filled as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.

(2) In the case of a laboratory, agency, or organization described in subsection (b)(2), with respect to appointment authority under subsection (a)(2), the number equal to 3 percent of the total number of scientific, technical, engineering, mathematics, and technician positions in such laboratory, agency, or organization that are filled as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.

(3) In the case of a laboratory described in subsection (b)(3), with respect to appointment authority under subsection (a)(3), the number equal to 10 percent of the total number of scientific and engineering positions in such laboratory that are filled as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.

(d) Senior Scientific Technical Managers.—

(1) Establishment.— There is hereby established in each STRL, each facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, and the Defense Test Resource Management Center a category of senior professional scientific and technical positions, the incumbents of which shall be designated as “senior scientific technical managers” and which shall be positions classified above GS–15 of the General Schedule, notwithstanding [section 5108(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5108/a). The primary functions of such positions shall be—

(A) to engage in research and development in the physical, biological, medical, or engineering sciences, or another field closely related to the mission of such STRL, of such facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, or the Defense Test Resource Management Center; and

(B) to carry out technical supervisory responsibilities.

(2) Appointments.—

(A) The laboratory positions described in paragraph (1) may be filled, and shall be managed, by the director of the STRL involved, under criteria established pursuant to [section 4121(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4121/a), relating to personnel demonstration projects at laboratories of the Department of Defense, except that the director of the laboratory involved shall determine the number of such positions at such laboratory, not to exceed 2 percent of the number of scientists and engineers employed at such laboratory as of the close of the last fiscal year before the fiscal year in which any appointments subject to that numerical limitation are made.

(B) The test and evaluation positions described in paragraph (1) may be filled, and shall be managed, by the director of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, in the case of a position at a facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, and the director of the Defense Test Resource Management Center, in the case of a position at such center, under criteria established pursuant to [section 4121(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4121/a), relating to personnel demonstration projects at laboratories of the Department of Defense, except that the director involved shall determine the number of such positions at each facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base and the Defense Test Resource Management Center, not to exceed two percent of the number of scientists and engineers, but at least one position, employed at the Major Range and Test Facility Base or the Defense Test Resource Management Center, as the case may be, as of the close of the last fiscal year before the fiscal year in which any appointments subject to those numerical limitations are made.

(e) Exclusion From Personnel Limitations.—

(1) In general.— The director of an STRL shall manage the workforce strength, structure, positions, and compensation of such STRL—

(A) without regard to any limitation on appointments, positions, or funding with respect to such STRL, subject to subparagraph (B); and

(B) in a manner consistent with the budget available with respect to such STRL.

(2) Exceptions.— Paragraph (1) shall not apply to Senior Executive Service positions (as defined in [section 3132(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3132/a)) or scientific and professional positions authorized under section 3104 of such title.

(f) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “Defense Test Resource Management Center” means the Department of Defense Test Resource Management Center established under [section 4173 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4173).

(2) The term “employee” has the meaning given that term in [section 2105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2105).

(3) The term “Major Range and Test Facility Base” means the test and evaluation facilities and resources that are designated by the Secretary of Defense as facilities and resources comprising the Major Range and Test Facility Base.

(4) The term “veteran” has the meaning given that term in [section 101 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s101).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XI, § 1122(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXI/s1122/a/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2453](/us/stat/130/2453), § 2358a; amended [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title XI, § 1111](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tXI/s1111), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1636](/us/stat/131/1636); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XI, § 1112(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXI/s1112/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2012](/us/stat/132/2012); renumbered § 4091, [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1843(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1843/a), as added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(u)(4)(A)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tXVII/s1701/u/4/A), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2153](/us/stat/135/2153); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII), §§ 1843(b)(2), 1845(c)(5), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4245](/us/stat/134/4245), 4247; [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title II](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tII), §§ 212(a), 215(d)(13), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1588](/us/stat/135/1588), 1595; [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XI, § 1103](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXI/s1103), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 427](/us/stat/137/427).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1103(1)](/us/pl/118/31/s1103/1), substituted “bachelor’s or advanced degree” for “bachelor’s degree”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1103(2)(A)](/us/pl/118/31/s1103/2/A), (B), (D), substituted “Fiscal Year” for “Calendar Year” in heading, “fiscal year” for “calendar year” in introductory provisions, and “the preceding fiscal year” for “the fiscal year last ending before the start of such calendar year” in pars. (1) to (3).

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1103(2)(C)](/us/pl/118/31/s1103/2/C), substituted “11 percent” for “6 percent”.

Subsecs. (f), (g). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1103(3)](/us/pl/118/31/s1103/3), (4), redesignated subsec. (g) as (f) and struck out former subsec. (f) which related to direct hire authority at personnel demonstration laboratories for advanced degree holders.

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283, § 1843(a)](/us/pl/116/283/s1843/a), as added by [Pub. L. 117–81, § 1701(u)(4)(A)](/us/pl/117/81/s1701/u/4/A), renumbered [section 2358a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2358a) as this section.

[Pub. L. 116–283, § 1843(b)(2)](/us/pl/116/283/s1843/b/2), which directed the renumbering of [section 2358a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2358a) as section 4111 instead of this section, was repealed by [Pub. L. 117–81, § 1701(u)(4)(A)](/us/pl/117/81/s1701/u/4/A), effective as if included therein, so that such renumbering was no longer directed.

Subsec. (b)(1), (3). [Pub. L. 117–81, § 215(d)(13)(A)](/us/pl/117/81/s215/d/13/A), substituted “designated by [section 4121(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4121/b)” for “designated by section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 ([Public Law 111–84](/us/pl/111/84); [10 U.S.C. 2358](/us/usc/t10/s2358) note)”.

Subsec. (d)(2)(A), (B). [Pub. L. 117–81, § 215(d)(13)(B)](/us/pl/117/81/s215/d/13/B), substituted “pursuant to [section 4121(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4121/a)” for “pursuant to section 342(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 ([Public Law 103–337](/us/pl/103/337); [10 U.S.C. 2358](/us/usc/t10/s2358) note)”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 117–81, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/81/s212/a/2), added subsec. (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 117–81, § 212(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/81/s212/a/1), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g).

Subsec. (g)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1845(c)(5)](/us/pl/116/283/s1845/c/5), which directed amendment of subsec. (f)(1) of this section, as transferred and redesignated by [section 503(b)(2) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s503/b/2), by substituting “section 4173” for “section 196”, was executed to subsec. (g)(1) of this section, as transferred and redesignated by [section 1843(a) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1843/a), to reflect the probable intent of Congress and the amendments by [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81), §§ 212(a)(1), 1701(u)(4)(A). See notes above.

2018—Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) substituted “of appointments” for “to permanent appointment” in heading and “to another temporary appointment or to a term or permanent appointment” for “to a permanent appointment” in text.

2017—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1111(1)(A)(i)](/us/pl/115/91/s1111/1/A/i), inserted “, each facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, and the Defense Test Resource Management Center” after “each STRL” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (d)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1111(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/115/91/s1111/1/A/ii), which directed insertion of “, of such facility of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, or the Defense Test Resource Management Center”, was executed by making the insertion after “such STRL”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1111(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/91/s1111/1/B), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A), substituted “The laboratory positions” for “The positions”, and added subpar. (B).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 1111(2)](/us/pl/115/91/s1111/2), added pars. (1) and (3) and redesignated former pars. (1) and (2) as (2) and (4), respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title II, § 215(e)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tII/s215/e), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1595](/us/stat/135/1595), provided that: “This section [enacting [section 4121 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4121), amending this section and sections 4094 and 4124 of this title, amending provisions set out as notes preceding [section 1580 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1580) and under sections 2223a, 2358, 4001, and 4121 of this title, and repealing provisions set out as notes under [section 2358 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2358)] and the amendments and repeals made by this section shall take effect immediately after the effective date of the amendments made by title XVIII of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ([Public Law 116–283](/us/pl/116/283)) [Jan. 1, 2022].”

Amendment by [section 1701(u)(4)(A) of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s1701/u/4/A) applicable as if included in the enactment of title XVIII of [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) as enacted, see [section 1701(a)(2) of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s1701/a/2), set out in a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001) and note below.

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
