---
title: "§ 8521. Increasing youth recreation visits to Federal land"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8521"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8521"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title II, § 231](/us/pl/118/234/tII/s231), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2890](/us/stat/138/2890).)"
---
# § 8521. Increasing youth recreation visits to Federal land

##### § 8521. Increasing youth recreation visits to Federal land

(a) Strategy Not later than 2 years after January 4, 2025, the Secretaries, acting jointly, shall develop and make public a strategy to increase the number of youth recreation visits to Federal recreational lands and waters.

(b) Requirements A strategy developed under subsection (a)—

(1) shall—

(A) emphasize increased recreation opportunities on Federal recreational lands and waters for underserved youth;

(B) establish objectives and quantifiable targets for increasing youth recreation visits; and

(C) provide the anticipated costs to achieve the objectives and meet the targets established under subparagraph (B); and

(2) shall not establish any preference between similar recreation facilitated by noncommercial or commercial entities.

(c) Update to strategy Not later than 5 years after the date of the publication of the strategy required under subsection (a), and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretaries shall update the strategy and make public the update.

(d) Agreements The Secretaries may enter into contracts or cost-share agreements (including contracts or agreements for the acquisition of vehicles) to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title II, § 231](/us/pl/118/234/tII/s231), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2890](/us/stat/138/2890).)*
