---
title: "§ 15705. Savings clause"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15705"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15705"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–360, title II, § 206](/us/pl/108/360/tII/s206), Oct. 25, 2004, [118 Stat. 1679](/us/stat/118/1679).)"
---
# § 15705. Savings clause

##### § 15705. Savings clause

Nothing in this chapter supersedes any provision of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 [[42 U.S.C. 5401](/us/usc/t42/s5401) et seq.]. No design, construction method, practice, technology, material, mitigation methodology, or hazard reduction measure of any kind developed under this chapter shall be required for a home certified under section 616 of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 ([42 U.S.C. 5415](/us/usc/t42/s5415)), pursuant to standards issued under such Act, without being subject to the consensus development process and rulemaking procedures of that Act.

*([Pub. L. 108–360, title II, § 206](/us/pl/108/360/tII/s206), Oct. 25, 2004, [118 Stat. 1679](/us/stat/118/1679).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title II of [Pub. L. 108–360](/us/pl/108/360), Oct. 25, 2004, [118 Stat. 1675](/us/stat/118/1675), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 15701 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15701) and Tables.

The National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, referred to in text, is title VI of [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 700](/us/stat/88/700), which is classified generally to chapter 70 (§ 5401 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5401) and Tables.
