---
title: "§ 459h–2. Designation of hunting and fishing zones; regulation of maritime activities"
identifier: "USC-T16-S459h–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section459h–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–660, § 3](/us/pl/91/660/s3), Jan. 8, 1971, [84 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/84/1968); [Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title I, § 137(c)]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/4/dB/tI/s137/c), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–232.)"
---
# § 459h–2. Designation of hunting and fishing zones; regulation of maritime activities

##### § 459h–2. Designation of hunting and fishing zones; regulation of maritime activities

(a) In general The Secretary shall permit hunting and fishing on lands and waters within the seashore in accordance with applicable Federal and States laws: *Provided*, That he may designate zones where, and establish periods when, no hunting or fishing will be permitted for reasons of public safety, administration, fish or wildlife management, or public use and enjoyment. Except in emergencies, any regulations issued by the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be put into effect only after consultation with the appropriate State agencies responsible for hunting and fishing activities.

(b) No authority to regulate maritime activities Nothing in sections 459h to 459h–10 of this title 11 See References in Text note below. or any other provision of law shall affect any right of the State of Mississippi, or give the Secretary any authority, to regulate maritime activities, including nonseashore fishing activities (including shrimping), in any area that, on December 21, 2000, is outside the designated boundary of the seashore (including the buffer zone).

*([Pub. L. 91–660, § 3](/us/pl/91/660/s3), Jan. 8, 1971, [84 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/84/1968); [Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title I, § 137(c)]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/4/dB/tI/s137/c), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–232.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 459h to 459h–10 of this title, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this title”, and was translated as reading “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–660](/us/pl/91/660), which enacted sections 459h to 459h–10 of this title, to reflect the probable intent of Congress, because [Pub. L. 91–660](/us/pl/91/660) does not contain titles.

#### Amendments

2000—[Pub. L. 106–554](/us/pl/106/554) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).
