---
title: "§ 4214. Trust Fund"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4214"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4214"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–383, title I, § 104](/us/pl/100/383/tI/s104), Aug. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 905](/us/stat/102/905); [Pub. L. 102–371, § 2](/us/pl/102/371/s2), Sept. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 1167](/us/stat/106/1167).)"
---
# § 4214. Trust Fund

##### § 4214. Trust Fund

(a) Establishment There is established in the Treasury of the United States the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund, which shall be administered by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(b) Investment of amounts in the Fund Amounts in the Fund shall be invested in accordance with [section 9702 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s9702).

(c) Uses of the Fund Amounts in the Fund shall be available only for disbursement by the Attorney General under [section 4215 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4215) and by the Board under [section 4216 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4216).

(d) Termination The Fund shall terminate not later than the earlier of the date on which an amount has been expended from the Fund which is equal to the amount authorized to be appropriated to the Fund by subsection (e), and any income earned on such amount, or 10 years after August 10, 1988. If all of the amounts in the Fund have not been expended by the end of that 10-year period, investments of amounts in the Fund shall be liquidated and receipts thereof deposited in the Fund and all funds remaining in the Fund shall be deposited in the miscellaneous receipts account in the Treasury.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Fund $1,650,000,000, of which not more than $500,000,000 may be appropriated for any fiscal year. Any amounts appropriated pursuant to this section are authorized to remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 100–383, title I, § 104](/us/pl/100/383/tI/s104), Aug. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 905](/us/stat/102/905); [Pub. L. 102–371, § 2](/us/pl/102/371/s2), Sept. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 1167](/us/stat/106/1167).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1989b–3 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 102–371](/us/pl/102/371) substituted “$1,650,000,000” for “$1,250,000,000”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Maximum Amount Authorized for Fund

[Pub. L. 101–162, title II](/us/pl/101/162/tII), Nov. 21, 1989, [103 Stat. 996](/us/stat/103/996), provided that: “Subject to the provisions of section 104(e) of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 ([Public Law 100–383](/us/pl/100/383); 50 U.S.C. App. 1989(b-3(e) [1989b–3(e)]) [now [50 U.S.C. 4214(e)](/us/usc/t50/s4214/e)], the maximum amount authorized under such section for any fiscal year is appropriated, from money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for each fiscal year beginning on or after October 1, 1990, to the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund established by section 104(a) of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 [[50 U.S.C. 4214(a)](/us/usc/t50/s4214/a)], for payments to eligible individuals under section 105 of that Act [[50 U.S.C. 4215](/us/usc/t50/s4215)].”
