---
title: "§ 4341. Motion picture prints, transfer of title"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4341"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4341"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 43](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s43), as added [Pub. L. 87–861, § 2](/us/pl/87/861/s2), Oct. 23, 1962, [76 Stat. 1140](/us/stat/76/1140).)"
---
# § 4341. Motion picture prints, transfer of title

##### § 4341. Motion picture prints, transfer of title

(a) Prints in custody of Library of Congress; exception The Attorney General is authorized and directed to transfer to the Library of Congress the title to all prints of motion pictures now in the custody of the Library, which prints were vested in or transferred to the Alien Property Custodian or the Attorney General pursuant to this chapter after December 17, 1941, except prints of motion pictures which are the subject of suits or claims under section 4309(a) or [section 4329 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4329).

(b) Prints in custody of Attorney General; exception; right of selection by Library of Congress; disposal of unselected prints by Attorney General Subject to the right of selection by the Library of Congress, the authorization, direction, and exception contained in subsection (a) hereof shall apply with respect to such prints now in the custody of the Attorney General. Prints not selected by the Library of Congress may be disposed of by the Attorney General in any manner he deems appropriate.

(c) Retention, reproduction, and disposal of prints by Library of Congress With respect to all prints concerning which title is transferred to the Library of Congress pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) hereof, the Library shall have complete discretion to retain such prints and to reproduce copies thereof, or to dispose of them in any manner it deems appropriate.

*([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 43](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s43), as added [Pub. L. 87–861, § 2](/us/pl/87/861/s2), Oct. 23, 1962, [76 Stat. 1140](/us/stat/76/1140).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106](/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106), [40 Stat. 411](/us/stat/40/411), known as the Trading with the enemy Act, also known as the Trading with the Enemy Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4301 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 44 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions vested by law in Alien Property Custodian and Office of Alien Property Custodian transferred to Attorney General by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1947, § 101, eff. July 1, 1947, 12 F.R. 4534, [61 Stat. 951](/us/stat/61/951), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
