---
title: "§ 13293. Protection of proprietary information"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13293"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13293"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title VI, § 623](/us/pl/102/486/tVI/s623), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2904](/us/stat/106/2904).)"
---
# § 13293. Protection of proprietary information

##### § 13293. Protection of proprietary information

(a) In general In the case of activities, including joint venture activities, under this subchapter, and in the case of any existing or future activities, including joint venture activities, related primarily to battery technology for electric motor vehicles under other provisions of law, where the knowledge resulting from research and development activities conducted pursuant to such activities, including joint venture activities, is for the benefit of the participants (particularly domestic companies) that provide financial resources to a project under this subchapter, the Secretary, for a period of up to 5 years after the development of information that—

shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law, provide appropriate protections against the dissemination of such information to the public, and the provisions of [section 1905 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1905) shall apply to such information. Nothing in this subsection provides protections against the dissemination of such information to Congress.

(1) results from research and development activities conducted under this subchapter; and

(2) would be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential if the information had been obtained from a participant,

(b) “Domestic companies” defined For purposes of subsection (a), the term “domestic companies” means entities which are substantially involved in the United States in the domestic production of motor vehicles for sale in the United States and have a substantial percentage of their production facilities in the United States.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title VI, § 623](/us/pl/102/486/tVI/s623), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2904](/us/stat/106/2904).)*
