---
title: "§ 7317. Personnel matters"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7317"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7317"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–127, title I, § 187](/us/pl/104/127/tI/s187), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 941](/us/stat/110/941).)"
---
# § 7317. Personnel matters

##### § 7317. Personnel matters

(a) Compensation Each member of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by [section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703), when engaged in the performance of Commission duties.

(b) Staff

(1) Appointment The Commission shall appoint a staff director, who shall be paid at a rate not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay under [section 5376 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376), and such professional and clerical personnel as may be reasonable and necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its duties under this subchapter without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title, or any other provision of law, relating to the number, classification, and General Schedule rates.

(2) Limitation on compensation No employee appointed under this subsection (other than the staff director) may be compensated at a rate to exceed the maximum rate applicable to level GS–15 of the General Schedule.

(c) Detailed personnel On the request of the chairperson of the Commission, the head of any department or agency of the Federal Government is authorized to detail, without reimbursement, any personnel of the department or agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties under this section. The detail of any individual may not result in the interruption or loss of civil service status or other privilege of the individual.

*([Pub. L. 104–127, title I, § 187](/us/pl/104/127/tI/s187), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 941](/us/stat/110/941).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (b), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### References to Maximum Rate Under [5 U.S.C. 5376](/us/usc/t5/s5376)

For reference to maximum rate under [section 5376 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376), Government Organization and Employees, see [section 2(d)(3) of Pub. L. 110–372](/us/pl/110/372/s2/d/3), set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under [section 5376 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376).
