---
title: "§ 280g–18. Maternal mental health hotline"
identifier: "USC-T42-S280g–18"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section280g–18"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 399V–7, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1112](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1112), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5643](/us/stat/136/5643).)"
---
# § 280g–18. Maternal mental health hotline

##### § 280g–18. Maternal mental health hotline

(a) In general The Secretary shall maintain, by grant or contract, a national maternal mental health hotline to provide emotional support, information, brief intervention, and mental health and substance use disorder resources to pregnant and postpartum women at risk of, or affected by, maternal mental health and substance use disorders, and to their families or household members.

(b) Requirements for hotline The hotline under subsection (a) shall—

(1) be a 24/7 real-time hotline;

(2) provide voice and text support;

(3) be staffed by certified peer specialists, licensed health care professionals, or licensed mental health professionals who are trained on—

(A) maternal mental health and substance use disorder prevention, identification, and intervention; and

(B) providing culturally and linguistically appropriate support; and

(4) provide maternal mental health and substance use disorder assistance and referral services to meet the needs of underserved populations, individuals with disabilities, and family and household members of pregnant or postpartum women at risk of experiencing maternal mental health and substance use disorders.

(c) Additional requirements In maintaining the hotline under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—

(1) consult with the Domestic Violence Hotline, National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, and Veterans Crisis Line to ensure that pregnant and postpartum women are connected in real-time to the appropriate specialized hotline service, when applicable;

(2) conduct a public awareness campaign for the hotline;

(3) consult with Federal departments and agencies, including the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs, to increase awareness regarding the hotline; and

(4) consult with appropriate State, local, and Tribal public health officials, including officials who administer programs that serve low-income pregnant and postpartum individuals.

(d) Annual report The Secretary shall submit an annual report to the Congress on the hotline under subsection (a) and implementation of this section, including—

(1) an evaluation of the effectiveness of activities conducted or supported under subsection (a);

(2) a directory of entities or organizations to which staff maintaining the hotline funded under this section may make referrals; and

(3) such additional information as the Secretary determines appropriate.

(e) Authorization of appropriations To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 399V–7, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1112](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1112), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5643](/us/stat/136/5643).)*
