---
title: "§ 15813. Enhancing energy efficiency in management of Federal lands"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15813"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15813"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 111](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s111), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 615](/us/stat/119/615).)"
---
# § 15813. Enhancing energy efficiency in management of Federal lands

##### § 15813. Enhancing energy efficiency in management of Federal lands

(a) Sense of the Congress It is the sense of the Congress that Federal agencies should enhance the use of energy efficient technologies in the management of natural resources.

(b) Energy efficient buildings To the extent practicable, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Agriculture shall seek to incorporate energy efficient technologies in public and administrative buildings associated with management of the National Park System, National Wildlife Refuge System, National Forest System, National Marine Sanctuaries System, and other public lands and resources managed by the Secretaries.

(c) Energy efficient vehicles To the extent practicable, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Agriculture shall seek to use energy efficient motor vehicles, including vehicles equipped with biodiesel or hybrid engine technologies, in the management of the National Park System, National Wildlife Refuge System, National Forest System, National Marine Sanctuaries System, and other public lands and resources managed by the Secretaries.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 111](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s111), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 615](/us/stat/119/615).)*
