---
title: "§ 3520. General Counsel of Central Intelligence Agency"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3520"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3520"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 20](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s20), as added [Pub. L. 104–293, title VIII, § 813(a)](/us/pl/104/293/tVIII/s813/a), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3483](/us/stat/110/3483); amended [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(b)(2)(D)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/b/2/D), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3690](/us/stat/118/3690).)"
---
# § 3520. General Counsel of Central Intelligence Agency

##### § 3520. General Counsel of Central Intelligence Agency

(a) Appointment There is a General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency, appointed from civilian life by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

(b) Chief legal officer The General Counsel is the chief legal officer of the Central Intelligence Agency.

(c) Functions The General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency shall perform such functions as the Director may prescribe.

*([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 20](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s20), as added [Pub. L. 104–293, title VIII, § 813(a)](/us/pl/104/293/tVIII/s813/a), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3483](/us/stat/110/3483); amended [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(b)(2)(D)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/b/2/D), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3690](/us/stat/118/3690).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403t of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403t) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) struck out “of Central Intelligence” after “Director”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

For Determination by President that amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

#### Applicability of Appointment Requirements

[Pub. L. 104–293, title VIII, § 813(b)](/us/pl/104/293/tVIII/s813/b), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3483](/us/stat/110/3483), provided that: “The requirement established by section 20 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 [[50 U.S.C. 3520](/us/usc/t50/s3520)], as added by subsection (a), for the appointment by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of an individual to the position of General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency shall apply as follows: “(1) To any vacancy in such position that occurs after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 11, 1996]. “(2) To the incumbent serving in such position on the date of the enactment of this Act as of the date that is six months after such date of enactment, if such incumbent has served in such position continuously between such date of enactment and the date that is six months after such date of enactment.”
