---
title: "§ 8561. Extension of seasonal recreation opportunities"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8561"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8561"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 331](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s331), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2911](/us/stat/138/2911).)"
---
# § 8561. Extension of seasonal recreation opportunities

##### § 8561. Extension of seasonal recreation opportunities

(a) Definition of seasonal closure In this section, the term “seasonal closure” means any period during which—

(1) a unit, or portion of a unit, of Federal recreational lands and waters is closed to the public for a continuous period of 30 days or more, excluding temporary closures relating to wildlife conservation or public safety; and

(2) permitted or allowable recreational activities, which provide an economic benefit, including off-season or winter-season tourism, do not take place at the unit, or portion of a unit, of Federal recreational lands and waters.

(b) Coordination

(1) In general The Secretaries shall consult and coordinate with outdoor recreation-related businesses operating on, or adjacent to, a unit of Federal recreational lands and waters, State offices of outdoor recreation, local destination marketing organizations, applicable trade organizations, nonprofit organizations, Indian Tribes, local governments, and institutions of higher education—

(A) to better understand—

(i) trends with respect to visitors to the unit of Federal recreational lands and waters;

(ii) the effect of seasonal closures on areas of, or infrastructure on, units of Federal recreational lands and waters on outdoor recreation opportunities, adjacent businesses, and local tax revenue; and

(iii) opportunities to extend the period of time during which areas of, or infrastructure on, units of Federal recreational lands and waters are open to the public to increase outdoor recreation opportunities and associated revenues for businesses and local governments; and

(B) to solicit input from, and provide information for, outdoor recreation marketing campaigns.

(2) Local coordination As part of the consultation and coordination required under subparagraph 11 So in original. Probably should be “paragraph”. (1), the Secretaries shall encourage relevant unit managers of Federal recreational lands and waters managed by the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the National Park Service to consult and coordinate with local governments, Indian Tribes, outdoor recreation-related businesses, and other local stakeholders operating on or adjacent to the relevant unit of Federal recreational lands and waters.

(d) 22 So in original. There is no subsec. (c). Extensions beyond seasonal closures

(1) Extension of recreational season In the case of a unit of Federal recreational lands and waters managed by the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, or the National Park Service in which recreational use is highly seasonal, the Secretary concerned, acting through the relevant unit manager, may—

(A) as appropriate, extend the recreation season or increase recreation use in a sustainable manner during the offseason; and

(B) make information about extended season schedules and related recreational opportunities available to the public and local communities.

(2) Determination In determining whether to extend the recreation season under this subsection, the Secretary concerned, acting through the relevant unit manager, shall consider the benefits of extending the recreation season—

(A) for the duration of income to gateway communities; and

(B) to provide more opportunities to visit resources on units of Federal recreational lands and waters to reduce crowding during peak visitation.

(3) Clarification Nothing in this subsection precludes the Secretary concerned, acting through the relevant unit manager, from providing for additional recreational opportunities and uses at times other than those described in this subsection.

(4) Inclusions An extension of a recreation season or an increase in recreation use during the offseason under paragraph (1) may include—

(A) the addition of facilities that would increase recreation use during the offseason; and

(B) improvement of access to the relevant unit to extend the recreation season.

(5) Requirement An extension of a recreation season or increase in recreation use during the offseason under paragraph (1) shall be done in compliance with all applicable Federal laws, regulations, and policies, including land use plans.

(6) Agreements

(A) In general The Secretary concerned may enter into agreements with businesses, local governments, or other entities to share the cost of additional expenses necessary to extend the period of time during which an area of, or infrastructure on, a unit of Federal recreational lands and waters is made open to the public.

(B) In-kind contributions The Secretary concerned may accept in-kind contributions of goods and services provided by businesses, local governments, or other entities for purposes of paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 331](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s331), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2911](/us/stat/138/2911).)*
