---
title: "§ 285n–1. Associate Director for Prevention"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285n–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285n–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 464I, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 122(c)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s122/c), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 359](/us/stat/106/359).)"
---
# § 285n–1. Associate Director for Prevention

##### § 285n–1. Associate Director for Prevention

(a) In general There shall be in the Institute an Associate Director for Prevention who shall be responsible for the full-time coordination and promotion of the programs in the Institute concerning the prevention of alcohol abuse and alcoholism. The Associate Director shall be appointed by the Director of the Institute from individuals who because of their professional training or expertise are experts in alcohol abuse and alcoholism or the prevention of such.

(b) Biennial report The Associate Director for Prevention shall prepare for inclusion in the biennial report made under section 284b 11 See References in Text note below. of this title a description of the prevention activities of the Institute, including a description of the staff and resources allocated to those activities.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 464I, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 122(c)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s122/c), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 359](/us/stat/106/359).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 284b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s284b), referred to in subsec. (b), was repealed by [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/b/1/C), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3693](/us/stat/120/3693).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1992, with provision for programs providing financial assistance, see section 801(c), (d) of [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 236 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s236).
