---
title: "§ 8301. Findings; statement of purposes"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–620, title I, § 102](/us/pl/95/620/tI/s102), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3291](/us/stat/92/3291); [Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/100/42/s1/c/1), May 21, 1987, [101 Stat. 310](/us/stat/101/310).)"
---
# § 8301. Findings; statement of purposes

##### § 8301. Findings; statement of purposes

(a) Findings The Congress finds that—

(1) the protection of public health and welfare, the preservation of national security, and the regulation of interstate commerce require the establishment of a program for the expended 11 So in original. Probably should be “expanded”. use, consistent with applicable environmental requirements, of coal and other alternate fuels as primary energy sources for existing and new electric powerplants; and

(2) the purposes of this chapter are furthered in cases in which coal or other alternate fuels are used by electric powerplants, consistent with applicable environmental requirements, as primary energy sources in lieu of natural gas or petroleum.

(b) Statement of purposes The purpose 22 So in original. Probably should be “purposes”. of this chapter, which shall be carried out in a manner consistent with applicable environmental requirements, are—

(1) to reduce the importation of petroleum and increase the Nation’s capability to use indigenous energy resources of the United States to the extent such reduction and use further the goal of national energy self-sufficiency and otherwise are in the best interests of the United States;

(2) to encourage and foster the greater use of coal and other alternate fuels, in lieu of natural gas and petroleum, as a primary energy source;

(3) to the extent permitted by this chapter, to encourage the use of synthetic gas derived from coal or other alternate fuels;

(4) to encourage the rehabilitation and upgrading of railroad service and equipment necessary to transport coal to regions or States which can use coal in greater quantities;

(5) to encourage the modernization or replacement of existing and new electric powerplants which utilize natural gas or petroleum as a primary energy source and which cannot utilize coal or other alternate fuels where to do so furthers the conservation of natural gas and petroleum;

(6) to require that existing and new electric powerplants which utilize natural gas, petroleum, or coal or other alternate fuels pursuant to this chapter comply with applicable environmental requirements;

(7) to insure that all Federal agencies utilize their authorities fully in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter by carrying out programs designed to prohibit or discourage the use of natural gas and petroleum as a primary energy source and by taking such actions as lie within their authorities to maximize the efficient use of energy and conserve natural gas and petroleum in programs funded or carried out by such agencies;

(8) to insure that adequate supplies of natural gas are available for essential agricultural uses (including crop drying, seed drying, irrigation, fertilizer production, and production of essential fertilizer ingredients for such uses);

(9) to reduce the vulnerability of the United States to energy supply interruptions; and

(10) to regulate interstate commerce.

*([Pub. L. 95–620, title I, § 102](/us/pl/95/620/tI/s102), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3291](/us/stat/92/3291); [Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/100/42/s1/c/1), May 21, 1987, [101 Stat. 310](/us/stat/101/310).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–620](/us/pl/95/620), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3289](/us/stat/92/3289), known as the Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### Amendments

1987—Subsec. (a)(1), (2). [Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/100/42/s1/c/1/A), struck out “and major fuel-burning installations” after “electric powerplants”.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(1)(B)](/us/pl/100/42/s1/c/1/B), redesignated par. (3) as (2) and struck out former par. (2) relating to conservation of natural gas and petroleum for uses for which there are no alternatives.

Subsec. (b)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(1)(B)](/us/pl/100/42/s1/c/1/B), redesignated pars. (4) and (5) as (3) and (4), respectively. Former par. (3) redesignated (2).

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/100/42/s1/c/1), redesignated par. (7) as (5) and struck out “and major fuel-burning installations” after “electric powerplants”. Former par. (5) redesignated (4).

Subsec. (b)(6). [Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(1)](/us/pl/100/42/s1/c/1), redesignated par. (8) as (6) and struck out “and major fuel-burning installations” after “electric powerplants”, and struck out former par. (6) which related to prohibition or minimization of use of natural gas and petroleum as a primary energy source.

Subsec. (b)(7) to (10). [Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(1)(B)](/us/pl/100/42/s1/c/1/B), redesignated former pars. (9) to (12) as (7) to (10), respectively. Former pars. (7) and (8) redesignated (5) and (6), respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 95–620, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/95/620/tIX/s901), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3349](/us/stat/92/3349), provided that: “Unless otherwise provided in this Act [see Short Title note set out below] the provisions of this Act shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 9, 1978], except that the Secretary may issue rules pursuant to such provisions at any time after such date of enactment, which rules may take effect no earlier than 180 days after such date of enactment.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 95–620, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/95/620/tI/s101/a), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3289](/us/stat/92/3289), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, amending sections 6211 and 7193 of this title, [section 796 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s796), Commerce and Trade, [section 1202 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1202), Customs Duties, sections 821, 822 and 825 of Title 45, Railroads, and section 26b of former Title 49, Transportation, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 822 of Title 45](/us/usc/t45/s822)] may be cited as the ‘Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978’.”

#### Exemption for Certain Electric Powerplants and Temporary Exemption Issued Under Section 8321(d) as Effective Prior to 180 Days After November 9, 1978

[Pub. L. 95–620, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/95/620/tIX/s902), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3349](/us/stat/92/3349), provided that: “(a) Exemptions in the Case of Certain Powerplants.—In the case of—“(1) any electric powerplant which, as of April 20, 1977, has received a final decision from the appropriate State agency authorizing the construction of such powerplant, and “(2) any electric powerplant (A) consisting of one or more combined cycle units owned or operated by an electric utility which serves at least 2,000,000 customers and (B) for which an application has been filed for at least one year before the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 9, 1978] with the appropriate State agency for authorization to construct such powerplant, the Secretary may receive, consider, and grant (or deny) any petition for an exemption under title II or III [subchapters II and III of this chapter] notwithstanding section 901 [[section 901 of Pub. L. 95–620](/us/pl/95/620/s901), set out as a note above] or the fact that all rules related to such petition have not been prescribed at the time. “(b) Exemptions Under Section 211(d).—The Secretary may receive, consider, and grant (or deny) any petition for any exemption under section 211(d) [[section 8321(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8321/d)] notwithstanding section 901 [[section 901 of Pub. L. 95–620](/us/pl/95/620/s901), set out as a note above], or the fact that all rules related to such petition have not been prescribed at the time.”
