---
title: "§ 2241. Farm Credit Administration"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2241"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2241"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–181, title V, § 5](/us/pl/92/181/tV/s5).7, Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 617](/us/stat/85/617); [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 201(1)](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s201/1), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/99/1688).)"
---
# § 2241. Farm Credit Administration

##### § 2241. Farm Credit Administration

The Farm Credit Administration shall be an independent agency in the executive branch of the Government. It shall be composed of the Farm Credit Administration Board and such other personnel as are employed in carrying out the functions, powers, and duties vested in the Farm Credit Administration by this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 92–181, title V, § 5](/us/pl/92/181/tV/s5).7, Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 617](/us/stat/85/617); [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 201(1)](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s201/1), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/99/1688).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1985—[Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205) amended section generally, substituting “Farm Credit Administration Board and such other personnel” for “Federal Farm Credit Board, the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration, and such other personnel”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205) effective thirty days after Dec. 23, 1985, see [section 401 of Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205/s401), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2001).

#### Interim Implementation of 1985 Amendment

[Pub. L. 99–205, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/99/205/tIV/s402), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/99/1709), provided that: “(a) Until the Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration Board provided for under the amendment made by section 201(1) of this Act [see [section 2242 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2242)] is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration, under the Farm Credit Act of 1971 [this chapter] as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 1985], shall perform the functions of the Chairman prescribed for the Chairman by this Act [[Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205), see Short Title of 1985 Amendment note set out under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2001)]. “(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), until at least two members of the Farm Credit Administration Board provided under the amendment made by section 201(1) of this Act [see [section 2242 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2242)] are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration, under the Farm Credit Act of 1971 [this chapter] as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 1985], shall perform the functions of the Farm Credit Administration Board prescribed for such Board by this Act [[Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205), see Short Title of 1985 Amendment note set out under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2001)]. “(2) When the Chairman of such Board is so appointed and confirmed, the Chairman shall assume any responsibilities and powers of the Board being exercised by the Governor under this subsection. “(c) In carrying out the duties and functions specified in subsections (a) and (b), the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration shall serve at the pleasure of the President. “(d) All regulations of the Farm Credit Administration or the institutions of the System, and all charters, bylaws, resolutions, stock classifications, and policy directives issued or approved by the Farm Credit Administration, and all elections held and appointments made under the Farm Credit Act of 1971 [this chapter], before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 1985], shall be continuing and remain valid until superseded, modified, or replaced under the authority of this Act [[Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205), see Short Title of 1985 Amendment note set out under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2001)].”
