---
title: "§ 60146. Radio frequency allocation"
identifier: "USC-T51-S60146"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section60146"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3420](/us/stat/124/3420).)"
---
# § 60146. Radio frequency allocation

##### § 60146. Radio frequency allocation

(a) Application to Federal Communications Commission.— To the extent required by the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t47/s151) et seq.), an application shall be filed with the Federal Communications Commission for any radio facilities involved with commercial remote sensing space systems licensed under subchapter III.

(b) Deadline for FCC Action.— It is the intent of Congress that the Federal Communications Commission complete the radio licensing process under the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t47/s151) et seq.), upon the application of any private sector party or consortium operator of any commercial land remote sensing space system subject to this chapter, within 120 days of the receipt of an application for such licensing. If final action has not occurred within 120 days of the receipt of such an application, the Federal Communications Commission shall inform the applicant of any pending issues and of actions required to resolve them.

(c) Development and Construction of United States Systems.— Authority shall not be required from the Federal Communications Commission for the development and construction of any United States land remote sensing space system (or component thereof), other than radio transmitting facilities or components, while any licensing determination is being made.

(d) Consistency With International Obligations and Public Interest.— Frequency allocations made pursuant to this section by the Federal Communications Commission shall be consistent with international obligations and with the public interest.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3420](/us/stat/124/3420).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 60146 | 15 U.S.C. 5656. | Pub. L. 102–555, title V, § 506, Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 4177. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Communications Act of 1934, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), which is classified principally to chapter 5 (§ 151 et seq.) of Title 47, Telecommunications. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of Title 47](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.
