---
title: "§ 20983. Grants to combat sexual abuse of children"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20983"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20983"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 625](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s625), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 636](/us/stat/120/636).)"
---
# § 20983. Grants to combat sexual abuse of children

##### § 20983. Grants to combat sexual abuse of children

(a) In general The Bureau of Justice Assistance is authorized to make grants under this section—

(1) to any law enforcement agency that serves a jurisdiction with 50,000 or more residents; and

(2) to any law enforcement agency that serves a jurisdiction with fewer than 50,000 residents, upon a showing of need.

(b) Use of grant amounts Grants under this section may be used by the law enforcement agency to—

(1) hire additional law enforcement personnel or train existing staff to combat the sexual abuse of children through community education and outreach, investigation of complaints, enforcement of laws relating to sex offender registries, and management of released sex offenders;

(2) investigate the use of the Internet to facilitate the sexual abuse of children; and

(3) purchase computer hardware and software necessary to investigate sexual abuse of children over the Internet, access local, State, and Federal databases needed to apprehend sex offenders, and facilitate the creation and enforcement of sex offender registries.

(c) Criteria The Attorney General shall give priority to law enforcement agencies making a showing of need.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2007 through 2009 to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 625](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s625), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 636](/us/stat/120/636).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16983 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16983), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
