---
title: "§ 1447a. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1447a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1447a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–532, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/92/532/tIV/s402), as added [Pub. L. 101–593, title III, § 301](/us/pl/101/593/tIII/s301), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2963](/us/stat/104/2963).)"
---
# § 1447a. Definitions

##### § 1447a. Definitions

(1) “Board” means any Regional Marine Research board 11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. established pursuant to [section 1447b(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1447b/a);

(2) “Federal agency” means any department, agency, or other instrumentality of the Federal Government, including any independent agency or establishment of the Federal Government and any government corporation;

(3) “local government” means any city, town, borough, county, parish, district, or other public body which is a political subdivision of a State and which is created pursuant to State law;

(4) “marine and coastal waters” means estuaries, waters of the estuarine zone, including wetlands, any other waters seaward of the historic height of tidal influence, the territorial seas, the contiguous zone, and the ocean;

(5) “nonprofit organization” means any organization, association, or institution described in [section 501(c)(3) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3) which is exempt from taxation pursuant to [section 501(a) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/a);

(6) “region” means 1 of the 9 regions described in [section 1447b(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1447b/a); and

(7) “State” means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

*([Pub. L. 92–532, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/92/532/tIV/s402), as added [Pub. L. 101–593, title III, § 301](/us/pl/101/593/tIII/s301), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2963](/us/stat/104/2963).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone of United States

For extension of territorial sea and contiguous zone of United States, see Proc. No. 5928 and Proc. No. 7219, respectively, set out as notes under [section 1331 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1331), Public Lands.
