---
title: "§ 2214. Assistant to the Chief Executive Officer"
identifier: "USC-T2-S2214"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section2214"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–437, title II, § 204](/us/pl/110/437/tII/s204), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4988](/us/stat/122/4988).)"
---
# § 2214. Assistant to the Chief Executive Officer

##### § 2214. Assistant to the Chief Executive Officer

(a) In general The Architect of the Capitol shall—

(1) upon recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, appoint an assistant who shall perform the responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer during the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, or during a vacancy in the position of the Chief Executive Officer; and

(2) notwithstanding [section 2213(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s2213/b/1), fix the rate of basic pay for the position of the assistant appointed under subparagraph (A) 11 So in original. Probably should be a reference to paragraph (1). at a rate not to exceed the highest total rate of pay for the Senior Executive Service under subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of title 5 for the locality involved.

(b) Transition for current Assistant Chief Executive Officer

(1) Appointment The individual who serves as the assistant under [section 1807 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1807) as of October 20, 2008, shall be the first Assistant Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services appointed by the Architect under this section.

(2) Omitted

*([Pub. L. 110–437, title II, § 204](/us/pl/110/437/tII/s204), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4988](/us/stat/122/4988).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1807 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1807), referred to in subsec. (b)(1), was repealed by [Pub. L. 110–437, title II, § 204(b)(2)](/us/pl/110/437/tII/s204/b/2), Oct. 20, 2008, [122 Stat. 4988](/us/stat/122/4988).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 204 of Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437/s204). Subsec. (b)(2) of [section 204 of Pub. L. 110–437](/us/pl/110/437/s204) repealed [section 1807 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1807).
