---
title: "§ 705. Navy Department"
identifier: "USC-T14-S705"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section705"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 506](/us/stat/63/506), § 145; [Aug. 3, 1950, ch. 536, § 3](/us/act/1950-08-03/ch536/s3), [64 Stat. 406](/us/stat/64/406); [Pub. L. 94–546, § 1(11)](/us/pl/94/546/s1/11), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2519](/us/stat/90/2519); [Pub. L. 98–557, § 15(a)(3)(D)](/us/pl/98/557/s15/a/3/D), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2865](/us/stat/98/2865); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1704(a)](/us/pl/107/296/tXVII/s1704/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2314](/us/st"
---
# § 705. Navy Department

##### § 705. Navy Department

(a) The Secretary of the Navy, at the request of the Secretary may, with or without reimbursement for the cost thereof, as agreed:

(1) build any vessel for the Coast Guard at such Navy yards as the Secretary of the Navy may designate;

(2) receive members of the Coast Guard for instruction in any school, including any aviation school maintained by the Navy, and such members shall be subject to the regulations governing such schools;

(3) permit personnel of the Coast Guard and their dependents to occupy any public quarters maintained by the Navy and available for the purpose; and

(4) detail personnel from the Chaplain Corps to provide services, pursuant to [section 1789 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1789), to the Coast Guard.

(b) Officers and enlisted members of the Coast Guard shall be permitted to purchase quartermaster supplies from the Navy and the Marine Corps at the same price as is charged the officers and enlisted members of the Navy and Marine Corps.

(c) When the Coast Guard is operating in the Department of Homeland Security, the Secretary shall provide for such peacetime training and planning of reserve strength and facilities as is necessary to insure an organized, manned, and equipped Coast Guard when it is required for wartime operation in the Navy. To this end, the Secretary of the Navy for the Navy, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, for the Coast Guard, may from time to time exchange such information, make available to each other such personnel, vessels, facilities, and equipment, and agree to undertake such assignments and functions for each other as they may agree are necessary and advisable.

(d)

(1) As part of the services provided by the Secretary of the Navy pursuant to subsection (a)(4), the Secretary may provide support services to chaplain-led programs to assist members of the Coast Guard on active duty and their dependents, and members of the reserve component in an active status and their dependents, in building and maintaining a strong family structure.

(2) In this subsection, the term “support services” include transportation, food, lodging, child care, supplies, fees, and training materials for members of the Coast Guard on active duty and their dependents, and members of the reserve component in an active status and their dependents, while participating in programs referred to in paragraph (1), including participation at retreats and conferences.

(3) In this subsection, the term “dependents” has the same meaning as defined in [section 1072(2) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1072/2).

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 506](/us/stat/63/506), § 145; [Aug. 3, 1950, ch. 536, § 3](/us/act/1950-08-03/ch536/s3), [64 Stat. 406](/us/stat/64/406); [Pub. L. 94–546, § 1(11)](/us/pl/94/546/s1/11), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2519](/us/stat/90/2519); [Pub. L. 98–557, § 15(a)(3)(D)](/us/pl/98/557/s15/a/3/D), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2865](/us/stat/98/2865); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1704(a)](/us/pl/107/296/tXVII/s1704/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2314](/us/stat/116/2314); [Pub. L. 111–281, title II, § 223](/us/pl/111/281/tII/s223), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2921](/us/stat/124/2921); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3533(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3533/c/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2321](/us/stat/132/2321); renumbered § 705, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 106(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s106/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4203](/us/stat/132/4203).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Subsection (a) is based on title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed., §§ 28, 42, 57 ([Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 417](/us/act/1916-08-29/ch417), [39 Stat. 601](/us/stat/39/601); [July 3, 1926, ch. 742, § 11](/us/act/1926-07-03/ch742/s11), [44 Stat. 817](/us/stat/44/817).) Subsection is enlarged to make reimbursement for the building of ships or the training of personnel dependent on agreement of the Secretaries, and to include all schools operated by the Navy, rather than aviation schools only.

Subsection (b) is based on title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 31 ([Mar. 6, 1920, ch. 94, § 1](/us/act/1920-03-06/ch94/s1), [41 Stat. 506](/us/stat/41/506)).

Subsection (c) is new. This subsection enacts what has been the practice of the Navy and Coast Guard in keeping the Coast Guard trained to “come on board with some muscle” in time of emergency.

[Section 3 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s3) deals with the relationship of the Coast Guard to the Navy Department. This section deals with cooperation with the Navy. Whereas the status of the Coast Guard in time of war was treated in chapter 1 of this title, this section has application in time of peace when the Coast Guard is not under the Navy Department.

Changes were made in phraseology. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 705 was renumbered [section 3705 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s3705).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 145 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s145) as this section.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) substituted “enlisted members” for “enlisted men” in two places.

2010—Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 223(1)](/us/pl/111/281/s223/1), added par. (4).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–281, § 223(2)](/us/pl/111/281/s223/2), added subsec. (d).

2002—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) substituted “of Homeland Security” for “of Transportation” in two places.

1984—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 98–557](/us/pl/98/557) substituted “members” for “officers and enlisted men” in two places.

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–546, § 1(11)(a)](/us/pl/94/546/s1/11/a), substituted “at the request of the Secretary” for “at the request of the Secretary of the Treasury”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 94–546, § 1(11)(b)](/us/pl/94/546/s1/11/b), substituted in first sentence “Department of Transportation” for “Treasury Department” and in second sentence “Secretary of Transportation” for “Secretary of the Treasury”.

1950—Subsec. (a)(3). Act Aug. 3, 1950, added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) effective on the date of transfer of the Coast Guard to the Department of Homeland Security, see [section 1704(g) of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s1704/g), set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.
