---
title: "§ 2017. Limitation on establishment of postsecondary educational institutions pending notice to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2017"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2017"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 553(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s553/b/1), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1387](/us/stat/133/1387).)"
---
# § 2017. Limitation on establishment of postsecondary educational institutions pending notice to Congress

##### § 2017. Limitation on establishment of postsecondary educational institutions pending notice to Congress

(a) Limitation.— The Secretary of Defense may not establish a postsecondary educational institution within the Department of Defense until a period of one year has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees of the intent of the Secretary to establish the institution.

(b) Postsecondary Educational Institution Defined.— In this section, the term “postsecondary educational institution” means a school or other educational institution that is intended to provide students with a course of instruction that is comparable, in length and academic rigor, to a course of instruction for which an associate’s, bachelor’s, or graduate degree may be awarded.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 553(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s553/b/1), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1387](/us/stat/133/1387).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Applicability

[Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 553(b)(3)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s553/b/3), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1387](/us/stat/133/1387), provided that: “[Section 2017 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2017), United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with respect to postsecondary educational institutions intended to be established by the Secretary of Defense on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 20, 2019].”
