---
title: "§ 7713a. School facilities for children of Government employees and other residents in Indian reservations, national parks, and national monuments"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7713a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7713a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([July 16, 1940, ch. 629](/us/act/1940-07-16/ch629), [54 Stat. 761](/us/stat/54/761).)"
---
# § 7713a. School facilities for children of Government employees and other residents in Indian reservations, national parks, and national monuments

##### § 7713a. School facilities for children of Government employees and other residents in Indian reservations, national parks, and national monuments

In order to facilitate the providing of educational opportunities for children of Government employees and other residents in Indian reservations, the national parks and national monuments the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized in his discretion to make available for elementary school purposes therein, without charge, space in Government-owned buildings, when such space may be available for such purposes without detriment to the official business of such Indian reservations, national parks and national monuments.

*([July 16, 1940, ch. 629](/us/act/1940-07-16/ch629), [54 Stat. 761](/us/stat/54/761).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 244a of this title](/us/usc/t20/s244a). Prior thereto, section was classified to [section 76a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s76a) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).
