---
title: "§ 17321. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s901), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/121/1725).)"
---
# § 17321. Definitions

##### § 17321. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Environment and Public Works, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

(2) Clean and efficient energy technology The term “clean and efficient energy technology” means an energy supply or end-use technology that, compared to a similar technology already in widespread commercial use in a recipient country, will—

(A) reduce emissions of greenhouse gases; or

(B)

(i) increase efficiency of energy production; or

(ii) decrease intensity of energy usage.

(3) Greenhouse gas The term “greenhouse gas” means—

(A) carbon dioxide;

(B) methane;

(C) nitrous oxide;

(D) hydrofluorocarbons;

(E) perfluorocarbons; or

(F) sulfur hexafluoride.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s901), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/121/1725).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title IX of [Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/121/1725), which enacted this subchapter and amended [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees, [section 9101 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s9101), Money and Finance, and [section 3021 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s3021), War and National Defense. For complete classification of title IX to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
