---
title: "§ 4556. Jurisdiction of courts; injunctions; venue; process; effect of termination of provisions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4556"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4556"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title VII, § 706, [64 Stat. 817](/us/stat/64/817); [July 31, 1951, ch. 275](/us/act/1951-07-31/ch275), title I, § 109(e), [65 Stat. 139](/us/stat/65/139).)"
---
# § 4556. Jurisdiction of courts; injunctions; venue; process; effect of termination of provisions

##### § 4556. Jurisdiction of courts; injunctions; venue; process; effect of termination of provisions

(a) Whenever in the judgment of the President any person has engaged or is about to engage in any acts or practices which constitute or will constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter, he may make application to the appropriate court for an order enjoining such acts or practices, or for an order enforcing compliance with such provision, and upon a showing by the President that such person has engaged or is about to engage in any such acts or practices a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order, with or without such injunction or restraining order, shall be granted without bond.

(b) The district courts of the United States and the United States courts of any Territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall have jurisdiction of violations of this chapter or any rule, regulation, order, or subpena thereunder, and of all civil actions under this chapter to enforce any liability or duty created by, or to enjoin any violation of, this chapter or any rule, regulation, order, or subpena thereunder. Any criminal proceeding on account of any such violation may be brought in any district in which any act, failure to act, or transaction constituting the violation occurred. Any such civil action may be brought in any such district or in the district in which the defendant resides or transacts business. Process in such cases, criminal or civil, may be served in any district wherein the defendant resides or transacts business or wherever the defendant may be found; the subpena for witnesses who are required to attend a court in any district in such case may run into any other district. The termination of the authority granted in any subchapter or section of this chapter, or of any rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder, shall not operate to defeat any suit, action, or prosecution, whether theretofore or thereafter commenced, with respect to any right, liability, or offense incurred or committed prior to the termination date of such subchapter or of such rule, regulation, or order. No costs shall be assessed against the United States in any proceeding under this chapter. All litigation arising under this chapter or the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be under the supervision and control of the Attorney General.

*([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title VII, § 706, [64 Stat. 817](/us/stat/64/817); [July 31, 1951, ch. 275](/us/act/1951-07-31/ch275), title I, § 109(e), [65 Stat. 139](/us/stat/65/139).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section, see [section 4564(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4564/a).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), [64 Stat. 798](/us/stat/64/798), known as the Defense Production Act of 1950, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4501 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4501) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1951—Subsec. (a). Act July 31, 1951, broadened relief a court may grant when Government seeks to enjoin violations.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Authority of President to implement the Defense Production Act of 1950 (this chapter) in this subchapter—

(1) with respect to hoarding of health and medical resources necessary to respond to the spread of COVID–19 within the United States delegated to Secretary of Health and Human Services, see section 2(a)(ii) of Ex. Ord. 13910, Mar. 23, 2020, 85 F.R. 17001, set out as a note under [section 4512 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4512);

(2) with respect to responding to the spread of COVID–19 within the United States delegated to Secretary of Health and Human Services and Secretary of Homeland Security, see section 2(a) of Ex. Ord. No. 13911, Mar. 27, 2020, 85 F.R. 18403, set out as a note under [section 4511 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4511); and

(3) in addition to the delegation of authority in Ex. Ord. No. 13911, delegated to Chief Executive Officer of the United States International Development Finance Corporation, see section 2 of Ex. Ord. No. 13922, May 14, 2020, 85 F.R. 30583, set out as a note under [section 4532 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4532).

Functions of President under this chapter relating to production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy, delegated to Secretary of Energy, see section 4 of Ex. Ord. No. 11790, June 25, 1974, 39 F.R. 23185, set out as a note under [section 761 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s761), Commerce and Trade.
