---
title: "§ 2624. Valuation"
identifier: "USC-T26-S2624"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section2624"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–514, title XIV, § 1431(a)](/us/pl/99/514/tXIV/s1431/a), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2721](/us/stat/100/2721).)"
---
# § 2624. Valuation

##### § 2624. Valuation

(a) General rule Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, property shall be valued as of the time of the generation-skipping transfer.

(b) Alternate valuation and special use valuation elections apply to certain direct skips In the case of any direct skip of property which is included in the transferor’s gross estate, the value of such property for purposes of this chapter shall be the same as its value for purposes of chapter 11 (determined with regard to sections 2032 and 2032A).

(c) Alternate valuation election permitted in the case of taxable terminations occurring at death If 1 or more taxable terminations with respect to the same trust occur at the same time as and as a result of the death of an individual, an election may be made to value all of the property included in such terminations in accordance with section 2032.

(d) Reduction for consideration provided by trans­feree For purposes of this chapter, the value of the property transferred shall be reduced by the amount of any consideration provided by the transferee.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–514, title XIV, § 1431(a)](/us/pl/99/514/tXIV/s1431/a), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2721](/us/stat/100/2721).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to generation-skipping transfers (within the meaning of [section 2611 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2611)) made after Oct. 22, 1986, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1433 of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s1433), set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2601).
