---
title: "§ 3334q. Detail of individuals from intelligence community to Department of Commerce"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3334q"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3334q"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7501](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7501), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1079](/us/stat/137/1079).)"
---
# § 3334q. Detail of individuals from intelligence community to Department of Commerce

##### § 3334q. Detail of individuals from intelligence community to Department of Commerce

(a) Authority In order to better facilitate the sharing of actionable intelligence on foreign adversary intent, capabilities, threats, and operations that pose a threat to the interests or security of the United States, particularly as they relate to the procurement, development, and use of dual-use and emerging technologies, the Director of National Intelligence may, acting through the Intelligence Community Civilian Joint Duty Program and in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, advertise joint duty positions and detail or facilitate the detail of civilian employees from across the intelligence community to the Bureau of Industry and Security of the Department of Commerce.

(b) Detail Detailees on a joint duty assignment (JDA) assigned pursuant to subsection (a) shall be drawn from such elements of the intelligence community as the Director considers appropriate, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce.

(c) Expertise The Director shall ensure that detailees referred to in subsection (a) have subject matter expertise on countries of concern, including China, Iran, North Korea, and Russia, as well as functional areas such as illicit procurement, counterproliferation, emerging and foundational technology, economic and financial intelligence, information and communications technology systems, supply chain vulnerability, and counterintelligence.

(d) Duty credit The detail of an employee of the intelligence community to the Department of Commerce under subsection (a) shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title V, § 7501](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tV/s7501), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1079](/us/stat/137/1079).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “intelligence community” as used in this section, see [section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s7002), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
