---
title: "§ 2405. Executive Director and additional staff personnel; appointment and compensation; experts and consultants; employment and compensation; audits by Comptroller General"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2405"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2405"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–495, title II, § 205](/us/pl/93/495/tII/s205), Oct. 28, 1974, [88 Stat. 1510](/us/stat/88/1510).)"
---
# § 2405. Executive Director and additional staff personnel; appointment and compensation; experts and consultants; employment and compensation; audits by Comptroller General

##### § 2405. Executive Director and additional staff personnel; appointment and compensation; experts and consultants; employment and compensation; audits by Comptroller General

(a) The Commission—

(1) may appoint with the advice and consent of the Senate and fix the compensation of an Executive Director, and such additional staff personnel as he deems necessary, without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and without regard to chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, but at rates not in excess of the maximum rate for GS–18 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of such title; and

(2) may procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109), but at rates not to exceed $150 a day for individuals.

(b) The Comptroller General is authorized to make detailed audits of the books and records of the Commission, and shall report the results of any such audit to the Commission and to the Congress.

*([Pub. L. 93–495, title II, § 205](/us/pl/93/495/tII/s205), Oct. 28, 1974, [88 Stat. 1510](/us/stat/88/1510).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay Rates

References in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of [Pub. L. 101–509](/us/pl/101/509), set out in a note under [section 5376 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376).
