---
title: "§ 3720. Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3720"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3720"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–480, § 25](/us/pl/96/480/s25), as added [Pub. L. 111–358, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/111/358/tVI/s601), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4026](/us/stat/124/4026).)"
---
# § 3720. Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship

##### § 3720. Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship

(a) In general The Secretary shall establish an Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship to foster innovation and the commercialization of new technologies, products, processes, and services with the goal of promoting productivity and economic growth in the United States.

(b) Duties The Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship shall be responsible for—

(1) developing policies to accelerate innovation and advance the commercialization of research and development, including federally funded research and development;

(2) identifying existing barriers to innovation and commercialization, including access to capital and other resources, and ways to overcome those barriers, particularly in States participating in the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research;

(3) providing access to relevant data, research, and technical assistance on innovation and commercialization;

(4) strengthening collaboration on and coordination of policies relating to innovation and commercialization, including those focused on the needs of small businesses and rural communities, within the Department of Commerce, between the Department of Commerce and other Federal agencies, and between the Department of Commerce and appropriate State government agencies and institutions, as appropriate; and

(5) any other duties as determined by the Secretary.

(c) Advisory committee The Secretary shall establish an Advisory Council on Innovation and Entrepreneurship to provide advice to the Secretary on carrying out subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 96–480, § 25](/us/pl/96/480/s25), as added [Pub. L. 111–358, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/111/358/tVI/s601), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4026](/us/stat/124/4026).)*
