---
title: "§ 10502. Shipping articles agreements"
identifier: "USC-T46-S10502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section10502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 570](/us/stat/97/570); [Pub. L. 103–206, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/103/206/tIV/s413), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2437](/us/stat/107/2437).)"
---
# § 10502. Shipping articles agreements

##### § 10502. Shipping articles agreements

(a) The owner, charterer, managing operator, master, or individual in charge shall make a shipping agreement in writing with each seaman before the seaman commences employment.

(b) The agreement shall include the date and hour on which the seaman must be on board to begin the voyage.

(c) The agreement may not contain a provision on the allotment of wages or a scale of provisions.

(d) Each shipping agreement must be signed by the master or individual in charge or a representative of the owner, charterer, or managing operator, and by each seaman employed.

(e) The owner, charterer, managing operator, master, or individual in charge shall maintain the shipping agreement and make the shipping agreement available to the seaman.

(f) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations requiring shipping companies to maintain records of seamen on matters of engagement, discharge, and service. The shipping companies shall make these records available to the seaman and the Coast Guard on request.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 570](/us/stat/97/570); [Pub. L. 103–206, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/103/206/tIV/s413), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2437](/us/stat/107/2437).)*

Section 10502 requires the master on a vessel engaged on a coastwise voyage to sign a shipping agreement with each member of the crew and lists provisions which must be and provisions which may not be included in the agreement.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 10502 | 46:574 |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–206, § 413(1)](/us/pl/103/206/s413/1), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: “Before proceeding on a voyage, the master of a vessel to which this chapter applies shall make a shipping articles agreement in writing with each seaman on board, declaring the nature of the voyage or the period of time for which the seaman is engaged.”

Subsecs. (d) to (f). [Pub. L. 103–206, § 413(2)](/us/pl/103/206/s413/2), added subsecs. (d) to (f).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
