---
title: "§ 1554. Annual report to Congress regarding Federal court rulings"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1554"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1554"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–4, title III, § 304](/us/pl/104/4/tIII/s304), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 70](/us/stat/109/70).)"
---
# § 1554. Annual report to Congress regarding Federal court rulings

##### § 1554. Annual report to Congress regarding Federal court rulings

No later than 4 months after March 22, 1995, and no later than March 15 of each year thereafter, the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations shall submit to the Congress, including the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and to the President a report describing any Federal court case to which a State, local, or tribal government was a party in the preceding calendar year that required such State, local, or tribal government to undertake responsibilities or activities, beyond those such government would otherwise have undertaken, to comply with Federal statutes and regulations.

*([Pub. L. 104–4, title III, § 304](/us/pl/104/4/tIII/s304), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 70](/us/stat/109/70).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Governmental Affairs of Senate changed to Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of Senate, effective Jan. 4, 2005, by Senate Resolution No. 445, One Hundred Eighth Congress, Oct. 9, 2004.

Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Government Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999. Committee on Government Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007. Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2019. Committee on Oversight and Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Accountability of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.
