---
title: "§ 12754. Limitation on jurisdictions under court order"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12754"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12754"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 224](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s224), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4113](/us/stat/104/4113).)"
---
# § 12754. Limitation on jurisdictions under court order

##### § 12754. Limitation on jurisdictions under court order

(a) In general Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Secretary shall ensure that funds provided under this part are not employed to carry out housing remedies or to pay fines, penalties, or costs associated with an action in which—

(1) a participating jurisdiction has been adjudicated, by a Federal, State, or local court, to be in violation of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [[42 U.S.C. 2000d](/us/usc/t42/s2000d) et seq.], the Fair Housing Act [[42 U.S.C. 3601](/us/usc/t42/s3601) et seq.], or any other Federal, State, or local law promoting fair housing or prohibiting discrimination, or

(2) a settlement has been entered into in any case where claims of such violations have been asserted against a participating jurisdiction, except to the extent permitted by subsection (b).

(b) Remedial use of funds permitted In the case of settlement described in subsection (a)(2), a jurisdiction may use funds provided under this Act to carry out housing remedies with eligible activities.

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 224](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s224), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4113](/us/stat/104/4113).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 101–625](/us/pl/101/625), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4079](/us/stat/104/4079), known as the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 12701 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12701) and Tables.

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VI of the Act is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 2000d et seq.) of chapter 21 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.

The Fair Housing Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is title VIII of [Pub. L. 90–284](/us/pl/90/284), Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 81](/us/stat/82/81), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 3601 et seq.) of chapter 45 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3601 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3601) and Tables.
