---
title: "§ 379j–41. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T21-S379j–41"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section379j–41"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 744A](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s744A), as added [Pub. L. 112–144, title III, § 302](/us/pl/112/144/tIII/s302), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1008](/us/stat/126/1008); amended [Pub. L. 115–52, title III, § 302](/us/pl/115/52/tIII/s302), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1020](/us/stat/131/1020).)"
---
# § 379j–41. Definitions

##### § 379j–41. Definitions

(1) The term “abbreviated new drug application”—

(A) means an application submitted under [section 355(j) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s355/j), an abbreviated application submitted under [section 357 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s357) (as in effect on the day before November 21, 1997), or an abbreviated new drug application submitted pursuant to regulations in effect prior to the implementation of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984; and

(B) does not include an application—

(i) for a positron emission tomography drug; or

(ii) submitted by a State or Federal governmental entity for a drug that is not distributed commercially.

(2) The term “active pharmaceutical ingredient” means—

(A) a substance, or a mixture when the substance is unstable or cannot be transported on its own, intended—

(i) to be used as a component of a drug; and

(ii) to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or any function of the human body; or

(B) a substance intended for final crystallization, purification, or salt formation, or any combination of those activities, to become a substance or mixture described in subparagraph (A).

(3) The term “adjustment factor” means a factor applicable to a fiscal year that is the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (all items; United States city average) for October of the preceding fiscal year divided by such Index for October 2011.

(4) The term “affiliate” means a business entity that has a relationship with a second business entity if, directly or indirectly—

(A) one business entity controls, or has the power to control, the other business entity; or

(B) a third party controls, or has power to control, both of the business entities.

(5) The term “contract manufacturing organization facility” means a manufacturing facility of a finished dosage form of a drug approved pursuant to an abbreviated new drug application, where such manufacturing facility is not identified in an approved abbreviated new drug application held by the owner of such facility or an affiliate of such owner or facility.

(6)

(A) The term “facility”—

(i) means a business or other entity—

(I) under one management, either direct or indirect; and

(II) at one geographic location or address engaged in manufacturing or processing an active pharmaceutical ingredient or a finished dosage form; and

(ii) does not include a business or other entity whose only manufacturing or processing activities are one or more of the following: repackaging, relabeling, or testing.

(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), separate buildings within close proximity are considered to be at one geographic location or address if the activities in them are—

(i) closely related to the same business enterprise;

(ii) under the supervision of the same local management; and

(iii) capable of being inspected by the Food and Drug Administration during a single inspection.

(C) If a business or other entity would meet the definition of a facility under this paragraph but for being under multiple management, the business or other entity is deemed to constitute multiple facilities, one per management entity, for purposes of this paragraph.

(7) The term “finished dosage form” means—

(A) a drug product in the form in which it will be administered to a patient, such as a tablet, capsule, solution, or topical application;

(B) a drug product in a form in which reconstitution is necessary prior to administration to a patient, such as oral suspensions or lyophilized powders; or

(C) any combination of an active pharmaceutical ingredient with another component of a drug product for purposes of production of a drug product described in subparagraph (A) or (B).

(8) The term “generic drug submission” means an abbreviated new drug application, an amendment to an abbreviated new drug application, or a prior approval supplement to an abbreviated new drug application.

(9) The term “human generic drug activities” means the following activities of the Secretary associated with generic drugs and inspection of facilities associated with generic drugs:

(A) The activities necessary for the review of generic drug submissions, including review of drug master files referenced in such submissions.

(B) The issuance of—

(i) approval letters which approve abbreviated new drug applications or supplements to such applications; or

(ii) complete response letters which set forth in detail the specific deficiencies in such applications and, where appropriate, the actions necessary to place such applications in condition for approval.

(C) The issuance of letters related to Type II active pharmaceutical drug master files which—

(i) set forth in detail the specific deficiencies in such submissions, and where appropriate, the actions necessary to resolve those deficiencies; or

(ii) document that no deficiencies need to be addressed.

(D) Inspections related to generic drugs.

(E) Monitoring of research conducted in connection with the review of generic drug submissions and drug master files.

(F) Postmarket safety activities with respect to drugs approved under abbreviated new drug applications or supplements, including the following activities:

(i) Collecting, developing, and reviewing safety information on approved drugs, including adverse event reports.

(ii) Developing and using improved adverse-event data-collection systems, including information technology systems.

(iii) Developing and using improved analytical tools to assess potential safety problems, including access to external data bases.

(iv) Implementing and enforcing section 355(*o*) of this title (relating to postapproval studies and clinical trials and labeling changes) and [section 355(p) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s355/p) (relating to risk evaluation and mitigation strategies) insofar as those activities relate to abbreviated new drug applications.

(v) Carrying out [section 355(k)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s355/k/5) (relating to adverse-event reports and postmarket safety activities).

(G) Regulatory science activities related to generic drugs.

(10) The term “positron emission tomography drug” has the meaning given to the term “compounded positron emission tomography drug” in [section 321(ii) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s321/ii), except that paragraph (1)(B) of such section shall not apply.

(11) The term “prior approval supplement” means a request to the Secretary to approve a change in the drug substance, drug product, production process, quality controls, equipment, or facilities covered by an approved abbreviated new drug application when that change has a substantial potential to have an adverse effect on the identity, strength, quality, purity, or potency of the drug product as these factors may relate to the safety or effectiveness of the drug product.

(12) The term “resources allocated for human generic drug activities” means the expenses for—

(A) officers and employees of the Food and Drug Administration, contractors of the Food and Drug Administration, advisory committees, and costs related to such officers and employees and to contracts with such contractors;

(B) management of information, and the acquisition, maintenance, and repair of computer resources;

(C) leasing, maintenance, renovation, and repair of facilities and acquisition, maintenance, and repair of fixtures, furniture, scientific equipment, and other necessary materials and supplies; and

(D) collecting fees under subsection (a) and accounting for resources allocated for the review of abbreviated new drug applications and supplements and inspection related to generic drugs.

(13) The term “Type II active pharmaceutical ingredient drug master file” means a submission of information to the Secretary by a person that intends to authorize the Food and Drug Administration to reference the information to support approval of a generic drug submission without the submitter having to disclose the information to the generic drug submission applicant.

*([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 744A](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s744A), as added [Pub. L. 112–144, title III, § 302](/us/pl/112/144/tIII/s302), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1008](/us/stat/126/1008); amended [Pub. L. 115–52, title III, § 302](/us/pl/115/52/tIII/s302), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1020](/us/stat/131/1020).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 3004(a) of Pub. L. 117–180](/us/pl/117/180/s3004/a), see Effective and Termination Dates note set out below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 357 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s357), referred to in par. (1)(A), was repealed by [Pub. L. 105–115, title I, § 125(b)(1)](/us/pl/105/115/tI/s125/b/1), Nov. 21, 1997, [111 Stat. 2325](/us/stat/111/2325).

The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to in par. (1)(A), is [Pub. L. 98–417](/us/pl/98/417), Sept. 24, 1984, [98 Stat. 1585](/us/stat/98/1585). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1984 Amendment note set out under [section 301 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s301) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2017—Par. (1)(B). [Pub. L. 115–52, § 302(1)](/us/pl/115/52/s302/1), substituted “application—” for “application for a positron emission tomography drug.” and added cls. (i) and (ii).

Pars. (5) to (13). [Pub. L. 115–52, § 302(2)](/us/pl/115/52/s302/2), (3), added par. (5) and redesignated former pars. (5) to (12) as (6) to (13), respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–180, div. F, title III, § 3005](/us/pl/117/180/dF/tIII/s3005), Sept. 30, 2022, [136 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/136/2159), provided that: “The amendments made by this title [amending sections 379j–42 and 379j–43 of this title and repealing provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 379j–43 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–43)] shall take effect on October 1, 2022, or the date of the enactment of this Act [Sept. 30, 2022], whichever is later, except that fees under part 7 of subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ([21 U.S.C. 379j–41](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41) et seq.) shall be assessed for all abbreviated new drug applications received on or after October 1, 2022, regardless of the date of the enactment of this Act.”

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–52, title III, § 306](/us/pl/115/52/tIII/s306), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1027](/us/stat/131/1027), provided that: “The amendments made by this title [see [section 301(a) of Pub. L. 115–52](/us/pl/115/52/s301/a), set out as a Short Title of 2017 Amendment note under [section 301 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s301)] shall take effect on October 1, 2017, or the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 18, 2017], whichever is later, except that fees under part 7 of subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 379j–41](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41) et seq.] shall be assessed for all abbreviated new drug applications received on or after October 1, 2017, regardless of the date of the enactment of this Act.”

#### Effective and Termination Dates

[Pub. L. 117–180, div. F, title III, § 3004(a)](/us/pl/117/180/dF/tIII/s3004/a), Sept. 30, 2022, [136 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/136/2159), provided that: “Sections 744A and 744B of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ([21 U.S.C. 379j–41](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41); 379j–42) shall cease to be effective October 1, 2027.”

[Pub. L. 115–52, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/115/52/tIII/s305/a), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1027](/us/stat/131/1027), which provided that this section and [section 379j–42 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–42) would cease to be effective Oct. 1, 2022, was repealed by [Pub. L. 117–180, div. F, title III, § 3004(c)](/us/pl/117/180/dF/tIII/s3004/c), Sept. 30, 2022, [136 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/136/2159).

[[Pub. L. 117–180, div. F, title III, § 3004(c)](/us/pl/117/180/dF/tIII/s3004/c), Sept. 30, 2022, [136 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/136/2159), provided that the repeal of [section 305(a) of Pub. L. 115–52](/us/pl/115/52/s305/a), formerly set out above, is effective Oct. 1, 2022.]

[Pub. L. 112–144, title III, § 304(a)](/us/pl/112/144/tIII/s304/a), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1024](/us/stat/126/1024), which provided that this section and [section 379j–42 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–42) would cease to be effective Oct. 1, 2017, was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–52, title III, § 305(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/52/tIII/s305/c/1), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1027](/us/stat/131/1027).

[[Pub. L. 115–52, title III, § 305(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/52/tIII/s305/c/1), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1027](/us/stat/131/1027), provided that the repeal of [section 304(a) of Pub. L. 112–144](/us/pl/112/144/s304/a), formerly set out above, is effective Oct. 1, 2017.]

[Pub. L. 112–144, title III, § 305](/us/pl/112/144/tIII/s305), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1024](/us/stat/126/1024), provided that: “The amendments made by this title [enacting this section and sections 379d–4, 379j–42, and 379j–43 of this title and amending sections 352 and 379d–3 of this title] shall take effect on October 1, 2012, or the date of the enactment of this title [July 9, 2012], whichever is later, except that fees under section 302 [enacting this section and sections 379j–42 and 379j–43 of this title] shall be assessed for all human generic drug submissions and Type II active pharmaceutical drug master files received on or after October 1, 2012, regardless of the date of enactment of this title.”

#### Savings Clause

[Pub. L. 117–180, div. F, title III, § 3006](/us/pl/117/180/dF/tIII/s3006), Sept. 30, 2022, [136 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/136/2159), provided that: “Notwithstanding the amendments made by this title [amending sections 379j–42 and 379j–43 of this title and repealing provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 379j–43 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–43)], part 7 of subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ([21 U.S.C. 379j–41](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41) et seq.), as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this title [Sept. 30, 2022], shall continue to be in effect with respect to abbreviated new drug applications (as defined in such part as of such day) that were received by the Food and Drug Administration within the meaning of section 505(j)(5)(A) of such Act ([21 U.S.C. 355(j)(5)(A)](/us/usc/t21/s355/j/5/A)), prior approval supplements that were submitted, and drug master files for Type II active pharmaceutical ingredients that were first referenced on or after October 1, 2017, but before October 1, 2022, with respect to assessing and collecting any fee required by such part for a fiscal year prior to fiscal year 2023.”

[Pub. L. 115–52, title III, § 307](/us/pl/115/52/tIII/s307), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1027](/us/stat/131/1027), provided that: “Notwithstanding the amendments made by this title [amending this section and sections 379j–42 and 379j–43 of this title and repealing provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 379j–43 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–43)], part 7 of subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 379j–41](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41) et seq.], as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this title [Aug. 18, 2017], shall continue to be in effect with respect to abbreviated new drug applications (as defined in such part as of such day) that were received by the Food and Drug Administration within the meaning of section 505(j)(5)(A) of such Act ([21 U.S.C. 355(j)(5)(A)](/us/usc/t21/s355/j/5/A)), prior approval supplements that were submitted, and drug master files for Type II active pharmaceutical ingredients that were first referenced on or after October 1, 2012, but before October 1, 2017, with respect to assessing and collecting any fee required by such part for a fiscal year prior to fiscal year 2018.”

#### Congressional Findings Concerning Fees Relating to Human Generic Drugs

[Pub. L. 117–180, div. F, title III, § 3001(b)](/us/pl/117/180/dF/tIII/s3001/b), Sept. 30, 2022, [136 Stat. 2155](/us/stat/136/2155), provided that: “Congress finds that the fees authorized by the amendments made by this title [amending sections 379j–42 and 379j–43 of this title and repealing provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 379j–43 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–43)] will be dedicated to human generic drug activities, as set forth in the goals identified for purposes of part 7 of subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ([21 U.S.C. 379j–41](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41) et seq.), in the letters from the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the Chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, as set forth in the Congressional Record.”

[Pub. L. 115–52, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/115/52/tIII/s301/b), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1020](/us/stat/131/1020), provided that: “The Congress finds that the fees authorized by the amendments made in this title [amending this section and sections 379j–42 and 379j–43 of this title and repealing provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 379j–43 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–43)] will be dedicated to human generic drug activities, as set forth in the goals identified for purposes of part 7 of subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 379j–41](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41) et seq.], in the letters from the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the Chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, as set forth in the Congressional Record.”

[Pub. L. 112–144, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/112/144/tIII/s301/b), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1008](/us/stat/126/1008), provided that: “The Congress finds that the fees authorized by the amendments made in this title [enacting this section and sections 379d–4, 379j–42, and 379j–43 of this title and amending sections 352 and 379d–3 of this title] will be dedicated to human generic drug activities, as set forth in the goals identified for purposes of part 7 of subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [this subpart], in the letters from the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the Chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, as set forth in the Congressional Record.”
