---
title: "§ 721. Congressional Directory"
identifier: "USC-T44-S721"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section721"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1251](/us/stat/82/1251); [Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/95/94/tIV/s404), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 682](/us/stat/91/682).)"
---
# § 721. Congressional Directory

##### § 721. Congressional Directory

(a) There shall be prepared under the direction of the Joint Committee on Printing (1) a Congressional Directory, which shall be printed and distributed as early as practicable during the first session of each Congress and (2) a supplement to each Congressional Directory, which shall be printed and distributed as early as practicable during the second regular session of each Congress. The Joint Committee shall control the number and distribution of the Congressional Directory and each supplement.

(b) One copy of the Congressional Directory delivered to Members of the Senate and the House of Representatives (including Delegates and the Resident Commissioner) shall be bound in cloth and imprinted on the cover with the name of the Member. Copies of the Congressional Directory delivered to depository libraries may be bound in cloth. All other copies of the Congressional Directory shall be bound in paper and names shall not be imprinted thereon, except that copies printed for sale under section 722 may be bound in cloth.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1251](/us/stat/82/1251); [Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, § 404](/us/pl/95/94/tIV/s404), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 682](/us/stat/91/682).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 149 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 73](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s73), [28 Stat. 617](/us/stat/28/617); [July 1, 1902, ch. 1351](/us/act/1902-07-01/ch1351), [32 Stat. 583](/us/stat/32/583)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1977—[Pub. L. 95–94](/us/pl/95/94) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), substituted provisions relating to distribution of initial and supplementary Directories for provisions requiring preparation of three editions of the Directory during the first session of each Congress and two editions during each second regular session of Congress, struck out provisions relating to distribution of the first edition and provisions relating to cloth binding for copies delivered to Senators and Representatives, and added subsec. (b).
