---
title: "§ 80a–37. Rules, regulations, and orders"
identifier: "USC-T15-S80a–37"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section80a–37"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686](/us/act/1940-08-22/ch686), title I, § 38, [54 Stat. 841](/us/stat/54/841); [Pub. L. 111–203, title IX, § 986(c)(3)](/us/pl/111/203/tIX/s986/c/3), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1936](/us/stat/124/1936).)"
---
# § 80a–37. Rules, regulations, and orders

##### § 80a–37. Rules, regulations, and orders

(a) Powers of Commission The Commission shall have authority from time to time to make, issue, amend, and rescind such rules and regulations and such orders as are necessary or appropriate to the exercise of the powers conferred upon the Commission elsewhere in this subchapter, including rules and regulations defining accounting, technical, and trade terms used in this subchapter, and prescribing the form or forms in which information required in registration statements, applications, and reports to the Commission shall be set forth. For the purposes of its rules or regulations the Commission may classify persons, securities, and other matters within its jurisdiction and prescribe different requirements for different classes of persons, securities, or matters.

(b) Filing of information and documents The Commission, by such rules and regulations or order as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, may authorize the filing of any information or documents required to be filed with the Commission under this subchapter, subchapter II of this chapter, the Securities Act of 1933 [[15 U.S.C. 77a](/us/usc/t15/s77a) et seq.], the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [[15 U.S.C. 78a](/us/usc/t15/s78a) et seq.], or the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 [[15 U.S.C. 77aaa](/us/usc/t15/s77aaa) et seq.], by incorporating by reference any information or documents theretofore or concurrently filed with the Commission under this subchapter or any of such Acts.

(c) Good faith conformance with rules, regulations, and orders No provision of this subchapter imposing any liability shall apply to any act done or omitted in good faith in conformity with any rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, notwithstanding that such rule, regulation, or order may, after such act or omission, by amended or rescinded or be determined by judicial or other authority to be invalid for any reason.

*([Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686](/us/act/1940-08-22/ch686), title I, § 38, [54 Stat. 841](/us/stat/54/841); [Pub. L. 111–203, title IX, § 986(c)(3)](/us/pl/111/203/tIX/s986/c/3), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1936](/us/stat/124/1936).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Securities Act of 1933, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act May 27, 1933, ch. 38, title I](/us/act/1933-05-27/ch38/tI), [48 Stat. 74](/us/stat/48/74), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 77a et seq.) of chapter 2A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 77a of this title](/us/usc/t15/s77a) and Tables.

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act June 6, 1934, ch. 404](/us/act/1934-06-06/ch404), [48 Stat. 881](/us/stat/48/881), which is classified principally to chapter 2B (§ 78a et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 78a of this title](/us/usc/t15/s78a) and Tables.

The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, referred to in subsec. (b), is title III of [act May 27, 1933, ch. 38](/us/act/1933-05-27/ch38), as added [Aug. 3, 1939, ch. 411](/us/act/1939-08-03/ch411), [53 Stat. 1149](/us/stat/53/1149), which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 77aaa et seq.) of chapter 2A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 77aaa of this title](/us/usc/t15/s77aaa) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) struck out “the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935,” after “the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 5301 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s5301), Banks and Banking.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of Securities and Exchange Commission, with certain exceptions, to Chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 10 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, [64 Stat. 1265](/us/stat/64/1265), set out under [section 78d of this title](/us/usc/t15/s78d).
