---
title: "§ 4083. Period of relief"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4083"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4083"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 323](/us/pl/109/53/tIII/s323), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 493](/us/stat/119/493).)"
---
# § 4083. Period of relief

##### § 4083. Period of relief

(a) In general Subject to subsection (b), any import relief that the President provides under subsection (b) of [section 4082 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4082) may not, in the aggregate, be in effect for more than 3 years.

(b) Extension If the initial period for any import relief provided under [section 4082 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4082) is less than 3 years, the President may extend the effective period of any import relief provided under that section, subject to the limitation set forth in subsection (a), if the President determines that—

(1) the import relief continues to be necessary to remedy or prevent serious damage and to facilitate adjustment by the domestic industry to import competition; and

(2) there is evidence that the industry is making a positive adjustment to import competition.

*([Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 323](/us/pl/109/53/tIII/s323), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 493](/us/stat/119/493).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107/d), see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107), set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4001).
