---
title: "§ 524. Cooperation with irrigation districts, etc., in construction of reservoirs and canals"
identifier: "USC-T43-S524"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section524"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Feb. 21, 1911, ch. 141, § 2](/us/act/1911-02-21/ch141/s2), [36 Stat. 926](/us/stat/36/926).)"
---
# § 524. Cooperation with irrigation districts, etc., in construction of reservoirs and canals

##### § 524. Cooperation with irrigation districts, etc., in construction of reservoirs and canals

In carrying out the provisions of the said reclamation Act, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized, upon such terms as may be agreed upon, to cooperate with irrigation districts, water-users’ associations, corporations, entrymen, or water users for the construction or use of such reservoirs, canals, or ditches as may be advantageously used by the Government and irrigation districts, water-users’ associations, corporations, entrymen, or water users for impounding, delivering, and carrying water for irrigation purposes: *Provided*, That the title to and management of the works so constructed shall be subject to the provisions of [section 498 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s498): *Provided further*, That water shall not be furnished from any such reservoir or delivered through any such canal or ditch to any one landowner in excess of an amount sufficient to irrigate one hundred and sixty acres: *Provided*, That nothing contained in sections 523 to 525 of this title shall be held or construed as enlarging or attempting to enlarge the right of the United States, under existing law, to control the waters of any stream in any State.

*([Feb. 21, 1911, ch. 141, § 2](/us/act/1911-02-21/ch141/s2), [36 Stat. 926](/us/stat/36/926).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The said reclamation Act, referred to in text, probably means [act June 17, 1902, ch. 1093](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093), [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.
