---
title: "§ 4404. Enforcement, regulations, and construction"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4404"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4404"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–252, § 5](/us/pl/99/252/s5), Feb. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 33](/us/stat/100/33).)"
---
# § 4404. Enforcement, regulations, and construction

##### § 4404. Enforcement, regulations, and construction

(a) Enforcement

(1) A violation of [section 4402 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4402) or the regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter shall be considered a violation of [section 45 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s45).

(2) Any person who is found to violate any provision of section 4402 or 4403(a) of this title shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall on conviction thereof be subject to a fine of not more than $10,000.

(b) Regulations under [section 4402 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4402)

(1) Regulations issued by the Federal Trade Commission under [section 4402 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4402) shall be issued in accordance with [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553).

(2) Not later than 180 days after February 27, 1986, the Federal Trade Commission shall promulgate such regulations as it may require to implement [section 4402 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4402).

(c) Construction Nothing in this chapter (other than the requirements of sections 4402 and 4403 of this title) shall be construed to limit, restrict, or expand the authority of the Federal Trade Commission with respect to unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the advertising of smokeless tobacco products.

*([Pub. L. 99–252, § 5](/us/pl/99/252/s5), Feb. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 33](/us/stat/100/33).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Subsecs. (a) and (c) effective one year after Feb. 27, 1986, see [section 11(a) of Pub. L. 99–252](/us/pl/99/252/s11/a), set out as a note under [section 4401 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4401).
