---
title: "§ 2808. Regulatory constraints on aquaculture"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2808"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2808"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–362, § 9](/us/pl/96/362/s9), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1205](/us/stat/94/1205).)"
---
# § 2808. Regulatory constraints on aquaculture

##### § 2808. Regulatory constraints on aquaculture

(a) Regulatory constraints study The Secretaries, through the coordinating group, shall conduct, within twelve months after September 26, 1980, a study of the State and Federal regulatory restrictions to aquaculture development in the United States. The study shall—

Upon completion of the study, the Secretaries shall submit its results to Congress.

(1) include a literature review and a descriptive list identifying the parameters of the issue;

(2) identify and list relevant current and pending Federal regulations restricting the development of commercial aquaculture operations;

(3) identify and list relevant current State regulations restricting the development of commercial aquaculture operations in five States selected randomly in five separate geographic regions of the United States;

(4) conduct case studies of ten commercial aquaculture operations in the United States representing a wide range of marine and fresh water species to determine the practical effects of regulatory restrictions on aquaculture; and

(5) develop a flow-chart time line using the information obtained by means of paragraphs (1) through (4) to identify those regulations and restrictions that could have the most detrimental effect in establishing commercial aquaculture operations in the United States.

(b) Regulatory constraints plan Based on the results of the Regulatory Constraints Study conducted under subsection (a), and within six months of the study’s completion, the Secretaries shall formulate a plan for acting on the study’s findings. The plan will contain specific steps the Federal Government can take to remove unnecessarily burdensome regulatory barriers to the initiation and operation of commercial aquaculture ventures. Upon its completion, the Secretaries shall submit the plan to Congress.

*([Pub. L. 96–362, § 9](/us/pl/96/362/s9), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1205](/us/stat/94/1205).)*
