---
title: "§ 1864a. Deputy Director of the Foundation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1864a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1864a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([May 10, 1950, ch. 171, § 6](/us/act/1950-05-10/ch171/s6), as added [Pub. L. 90–407, § 4](/us/pl/90/407/s4), July 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 363](/us/stat/82/363); amended [Pub. L. 99–383, § 7(b)(1)](/us/pl/99/383/s7/b/1), Aug. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 814](/us/stat/100/814).)"
---
# § 1864a. Deputy Director of the Foundation

##### § 1864a. Deputy Director of the Foundation

There shall be a Deputy Director of the Foundation (referred to in this chapter as the “Deputy Director”), who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Before any person is appointed as Deputy Director, the President shall afford the Board and the Director an opportunity to make recommendations to him with respect to such appointment. The Deputy Director shall receive basic pay at the rate provided for level III of the Executive Schedule under [section 5314 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), and shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Director may prescribe. The Deputy Director shall act for, and exercise the powers of, the Director during the absence or disability of the Director or in the event of a vacancy in the office of Director.

*([May 10, 1950, ch. 171, § 6](/us/act/1950-05-10/ch171/s6), as added [Pub. L. 90–407, § 4](/us/pl/90/407/s4), July 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 363](/us/stat/82/363); amended [Pub. L. 99–383, § 7(b)(1)](/us/pl/99/383/s7/b/1), Aug. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 814](/us/stat/100/814).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1986—[Pub. L. 99–383](/us/pl/99/383) struck out subsec. (a) designation and struck out subsec. (b) which provided for appointment of four Assistant Directors of the Foundation.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section, insofar as related to rates of basic pay, effective on first day of first calendar month which begins on or after July 18, 1968, see [section 15(a)(4) of Pub. L. 90–407](/us/pl/90/407/s15/a/4), set out as an Effective Date of 1968 Amendment note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Continuation of Existing Offices, Procedures, and Organization of the National Science Foundation

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–407](/us/pl/90/407) intended to continue in effect the existing offices, procedures, and organization of the Foundation, see [section 16 of Pub. L. 90–407](/us/pl/90/407/s16), set out as a note under [section 1862 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1862).
