---
title: "§ 21103. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T36-S21103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section21103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1292](/us/stat/112/1292).)"
---
# § 21103. Purposes

##### § 21103. Purposes

(1) keep alive and develop the spirit that promoted world services;

(2) maintain the ties of fellowship born of that service, and assist and further all patriotic work;

(3) inculcate a sense of individual obligation to the community, State, and Nation;

(4) assist veterans of World War I, World War II, the Korean Conflict, Vietnam, and other strategic areas and their dependents in the presentation of claims to the Department of Veterans Affairs, and aid in any way in their power the men and women who served and died or were wounded or incapacitated during hostilities;

(5) perpetuate the memory of those whose lives were sacrificed in our wars;

(6) maintain true allegiance to the United States;

(7) inculcate lessons of patriotism and love of country in the communities in which we live;

(8) inspire respect for the Stars and Stripes in the youth of America;

(9) extend needful assistance to all Gold Star Mothers and, when possible, to their descendants; and

(10) promote peace and good will for the United States and all other Nations.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1292](/us/stat/112/1292).)*

Before clause (1), the word “objects” is omitted as included in “purposes”.

In clause (6), the words “of America” are omitted for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 21103 | 36:2403. | June 12, 1984, Pub. L. 98–314, § 3, 98 Stat. 237; June 13, 1991, Pub. L. 102–54, § 13(n)(6), 105 Stat. 278. |
