---
title: "§ 286k–2. Suspension of right of International Bank to issue securities under section 286k–1; report of Securities and Exchange Commission"
identifier: "USC-T22-S286k–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section286k–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([June 29, 1949, ch. 276, § 3](/us/act/1949-06-29/ch276/s3), [63 Stat. 299](/us/stat/63/299).)"
---
# § 286k–2. Suspension of right of International Bank to issue securities under section 286k–1; report of Securities and Exchange Commission

##### § 286k–2. Suspension of right of International Bank to issue securities under section 286k–1; report of Securities and Exchange Commission

The Securities and Exchange Commission acting in consultation with the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems is authorized to suspend the provisions of section 286k–1 (a) of this title at any time as to any or all securities issued or guaranteed by the bank during the period of such suspension. The Commission shall include in its annual reports to Congress such information as it shall deem advisable with regard to the operations and effect of this section, and [section 286k–1 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s286k–1) and [section 24 of title 12](/us/usc/t12/s24) and in connection therewith shall include any views submitted for such purpose by any association of dealers registered with the Commission.

*([June 29, 1949, ch. 276, § 3](/us/act/1949-06-29/ch276/s3), [63 Stat. 299](/us/stat/63/299).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of [act July 31, 1945, ch. 339](/us/act/1945-07-31/ch339), [59 Stat. 512](/us/stat/59/512), known as the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems delegated to National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies, see section 2(a) of Ex. Ord. No. 11269, Feb. 14, 1966, 31 F.R. 2813, set out as a note under [section 286b of this title](/us/usc/t22/s286b).
