---
title: "§ 2002. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2002"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2002"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–192, § 3](/us/pl/95/192/s3), Nov. 18, 1977, [91 Stat. 1407](/us/stat/91/1407); [Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 246(f)(2)(B)](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s246/f/2/B), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3225](/us/stat/108/3225).)"
---
# § 2002. Definitions

##### § 2002. Definitions

(1) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.

(2) The term “soil, water, and related resources” means those resources which come within the scope of the programs administered and participated in by the Secretary of Agriculture.

(3) The term “soil and water conservation program” means a set of guidelines for attaining the purposes of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 95–192, § 3](/us/pl/95/192/s3), Nov. 18, 1977, [91 Stat. 1407](/us/stat/91/1407); [Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 246(f)(2)(B)](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s246/f/2/B), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3225](/us/stat/108/3225).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354) struck out “through the Soil Conservation Service” after “Agriculture”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of Agriculture, insofar as they involve lands and programs under jurisdiction of that Department, related to compliance with this chapter with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(f), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, [93 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/93/1373), 1376, effective July 1, 1979, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by [section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486/s3012/b), set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e), Commerce and Trade. Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by [section 720d(f) of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s720d/f).
