---
title: "§ 3110. Annual report on violations of law or executive order"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 511, as added [Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 323(a)](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s323/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 4003](/us/stat/128/4003).)"
---
# § 3110. Annual report on violations of law or executive order

##### § 3110. Annual report on violations of law or executive order

(a) Annual reports required The Director of National Intelligence shall annually submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on violations of law or executive order relating to intelligence activities by personnel of an element of the intelligence community that were identified during the previous calendar year.

(b) Elements Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall, consistent with the need to preserve ongoing criminal investigations, include a description of, and any action taken in response to, any violation of law or executive order (including Executive Order No. 12333 ([50 U.S.C. 3001](/us/usc/t50/s3001) note)) relating to intelligence activities committed by personnel of an element of the intelligence community in the course of the employment of such personnel that, during the previous calendar year, was—

(1) determined by the director, head, or general counsel of any element of the intelligence community to have occurred;

(2) referred to the Department of Justice for possible criminal prosecution; or

(3) substantiated by the inspector general of any element of the intelligence community.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 511, as added [Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 323(a)](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s323/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 4003](/us/stat/128/4003).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction

[Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 323(e)](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s323/e), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 4004](/us/stat/128/4004), provided that: “Nothing in this section [enacting this section and provisions set out as notes under this section] or the amendments made by this section shall be construed to alter any requirement existing on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 19, 2014] to submit a report under any provision of law.”

#### Initial Report

[Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 323(b)](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s323/b), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 4004](/us/stat/128/4004), provided that: “The first report required under section 511 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3110](/us/usc/t50/s3110)], as added by subsection (a), shall be submitted not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 19, 2014].”

#### Guidelines

[Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 323(c)](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s323/c), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 4004](/us/stat/128/4004), provided that: “Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 19, 2014], the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the head of each element of the intelligence community, shall— “(1) issue guidelines to carry out section 511 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3110](/us/usc/t50/s3110)], as added by subsection (a); and “(2) submit such guidelines to the congressional intelligence committees.”

[For definitions of terms used in [section 323(c) of Pub. L. 113–293](/us/pl/113/293/s323/c), set out above, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 113–293](/us/pl/113/293/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).]
