---
title: "§ 5546. Support services for House during emergency; memorandum of understanding with an executive agency"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5546"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5546"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–117, div. B, § 904](/us/pl/107/117/dB/s904), Jan. 10, 2002, [115 Stat. 2318](/us/stat/115/2318).)"
---
# § 5546. Support services for House during emergency; memorandum of understanding with an executive agency

##### § 5546. Support services for House during emergency; memorandum of understanding with an executive agency

(a) Authorization Notwithstanding any other provision of law—

(1) subject to subsection (b), the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives and the head of an executive agency (as defined in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105)) may enter into a memorandum of understanding under which the agency may provide facilities, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other support services for the use of the House of Representatives during an emergency situation; and

(2) the Chief Administrative Officer and the head of the agency may take any action necessary to carry out the terms of the memorandum of understanding.

(b) Approval of Speaker required The Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives may not enter into a memorandum of understanding described in subsection (a)(1) without the approval of the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

(c) Applicability This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2002 and each succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 107–117, div. B, § 904](/us/pl/107/117/dB/s904), Jan. 10, 2002, [115 Stat. 2318](/us/stat/115/2318).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 130h of this title](/us/usc/t2/s130h) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Emergency Supplemental Act, 2002, which is div. B of the Department of Defense and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on the United States Act, 2002.
