---
title: "§ 1862o–12. Hispanic-serving institutions undergraduate program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1862o–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1862o–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–69, title VII, § 7033](/us/pl/110/69/tVII/s7033), Aug. 9, 2007, [121 Stat. 711](/us/stat/121/711); [Pub. L. 114–329, title III, § 315(a)](/us/pl/114/329/tIII/s315/a), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 3016](/us/stat/130/3016).)"
---
# § 1862o–12. Hispanic-serving institutions undergraduate program

##### § 1862o–12. Hispanic-serving institutions undergraduate program

(a) In general The Director shall award grants on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis to Hispanic-serving institutions (as defined in [section 1101a of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1101a)) to enhance the quality of undergraduate STEM education at such institutions and to increase the retention and graduation rates of students pursuing associate’s or baccalaureate degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.

(b) Program components Grants awarded under this section shall support—

(1) activities to improve courses and curriculum in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics;

(2) faculty development;

(3) stipends for undergraduate students participating in research; and

(4) other activities consistent with subsection (a), as determined by the Director.

(c) Instrumentation Funding for instrumentation is an allowed use of grants awarded under this section.

*([Pub. L. 110–69, title VII, § 7033](/us/pl/110/69/tVII/s7033), Aug. 9, 2007, [121 Stat. 711](/us/stat/121/711); [Pub. L. 114–329, title III, § 315(a)](/us/pl/114/329/tIII/s315/a), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 3016](/us/stat/130/3016).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Act, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Act, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–329](/us/pl/114/329) amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Director is authorized to establish a new program to award grants on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis to Hispanic-serving institutions (as defined in [section 1101a of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1101a)) to enhance the quality of undergraduate science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education at such institutions and to increase the retention and graduation rates of students pursuing associate’s or baccalaureate degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Savings Provision

[Pub. L. 114–329, title III, § 315(b)](/us/pl/114/329/tIII/s315/b), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 3016](/us/stat/130/3016), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) of this section [amending this section] shall not affect any award of a grant or other form of financial assistance made under section 7033 of the America COMPETES Act ([42 U.S.C. 1862](/us/usc/t42/s1862)*o*–12) before the date of enactment of this Act [Jan. 6, 2017]. Such awards shall continue to be subject to the requirements to which such funds were subject under that section before the date of enactment of this Act.”

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see [section 7001 of Pub. L. 110–69](/us/pl/110/69/s7001), set out as a note under section 1862*o* of this title.
