---
title: "§ 5354. Effect of detail or affiliation; travel expenses"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5354"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5354"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 472](/us/stat/80/472).)"
---
# § 5354. Effect of detail or affiliation; travel expenses

##### § 5354. Effect of detail or affiliation; travel expenses

(a) Status as a student-employee is not terminated by a temporary detail to or affiliation with another Government or non-Government institution to procure necessary supplementary training or experience pursuant to an order of the head of the agency. A student-employee may receive his stipend and other perquisites provided under this subchapter from the hospital, clinic, or laboratory to which he is assigned or attached for not more than 60 days of a detail or affiliation for each training year, as defined by the head of the agency.

(b) When the detail or affiliation under subsection (a) of this section is to or with another Federal institution, the student-employee is entitled to necessary expenses of travel to and from the institution in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of this title.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 472](/us/stat/80/472).)*

In subsection (b), the reference to “subchapter I of chapter 57 of this title” is substituted for the reference to “the Standardized Government Travel Regulations and the provisions of the Subsistence Expense Act of 1926, as amended” as the Subsistence Expense Act of 1926 was repealed by section 9(a) of the Travel Expense Act of 1949, [63 Stat. 167](/us/stat/63/167), part of which appeared in former section 842 and is carried into section 5708, and as the authority for the Standardized Government Travel Regulations in former section 840 is carried into section 5707 of subchapter I of chapter 57.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 1055. | Aug. 4, 1947, ch. 452, § 6, 61 Stat. 728. |
