---
title: "§ 2632. Duties"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2632"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2632"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–3, title III, § 302](/us/pl/103/3/tIII/s302), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 23](/us/stat/107/23).)"
---
# § 2632. Duties

##### § 2632. Duties

(1) conduct a comprehensive study of—

(A) existing and proposed mandatory and voluntary policies relating to family and temporary medical leave, including policies provided by employers not covered under this Act;

(B) the potential costs, benefits, and impact on productivity, job creation and business growth of such policies on employers and employees;

(C) possible differences in costs, benefits, and impact on productivity, job creation and business growth of such policies on employers based on business type and size;

(D) the impact of family and medical leave policies on the availability of employee benefits provided by employers, including employers not covered under this Act;

(E) alternate and equivalent State enforcement of subchapter I with respect to employees described in [section 2618(a) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2618/a);

(F) methods used by employers to reduce administrative costs of implementing family and medical leave policies;

(G) the ability of the employers to recover, under [section 2614(c)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2614/c/2), the premiums described in such section; and

(H) the impact on employers and employees of policies that provide temporary wage replacement during periods of family and medical leave.

(2) not later than 2 years after the date on which the Commission first meets, prepare and submit, to the appropriate Committees of Congress, a report concerning the subjects listed in paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 103–3, title III, § 302](/us/pl/103/3/tIII/s302), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 23](/us/stat/107/23).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in par. (1)(A), (D), is [Pub. L. 103–3](/us/pl/103/3), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 6](/us/stat/107/6), known as the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, which enacted this chapter, sections 60m and 60n of Title 2, The Congress, and sections 6381 to 6387 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, amended [section 2105 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2105), and enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2601). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2601) and Tables.
