---
title: "§ 5413. Administrative services and support"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5413"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5413"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–638, title VII, § 703](/us/pl/93/638/tVII/s703), as added [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 231(c)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s231/c), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2277](/us/stat/124/2277).)"
---
# § 5413. Administrative services and support

##### § 5413. Administrative services and support

(a) Provision of support by Secretary Subject to subsection (b), during the 5-year period beginning on the date on which the Foundation is established, the Secretary—

(1) may provide personnel, facilities, and other administrative support services to the Foundation;

(2) may provide funds for initial operating costs and to reimburse the travel expenses of the members of the Board; and

(3) shall require and accept reimbursements from the Foundation for—

(A) services provided under paragraph (1); and

(B) funds provided under paragraph (2).

(b) Reimbursement Reimbursements accepted under subsection (a)(3)—

(1) shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the applicable appropriations account; and

(2) shall be chargeable for the cost of providing services described in subsection (a)(1) and travel expenses described in subsection (a)(2).

(c) Continuation of certain services The Secretary may continue to provide facilities and necessary support services to the Foundation after the termination of the 5-year period specified in subsection (a) if the facilities and services are—

(1) available; and

(2) provided on reimbursable cost basis.

*([Pub. L. 93–638, title VII, § 703](/us/pl/93/638/tVII/s703), as added [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 231(c)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s231/c), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2277](/us/stat/124/2277).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 458ccc–2 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s458ccc–2) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
