---
title: "§ 6662. Presidential and Congressional Academies for American History and Civics"
identifier: "USC-T20-S6662"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section6662"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2232](/us/pl/89/10/tII/s2232), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title II, § 2002](/us/pl/114/95/tII/s2002), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 1945](/us/stat/129/1945).)"
---
# § 6662. Presidential and Congressional Academies for American History and Civics

##### § 6662. Presidential and Congressional Academies for American History and Civics

(a) In general From the amounts reserved under [section 6661(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6661/b/1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall award not more than 12 grants, on a competitive basis, to—

(1) eligible entities to establish Presidential Academies for the Teaching of American History and Civics (in this section referred to as the “Presidential Academies”) in accordance with subsection (e); and

(2) eligible entities to establish Congressional Academies for Students of American History and Civics (in this section referred to as the “Congressional Academies”) in accordance with subsection (f).

(b) Application An eligible entity that desires to receive a grant under subsection (a) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may reasonably require.

(c) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” under this section means—

(1) an institution of higher education or nonprofit educational organization, museum, library, or research center with demonstrated expertise in historical methodology or the teaching of American history and civics; or

(2) a consortium of entities described in paragraph (1).

(d) Grant terms Grants awarded to eligible entities under subsection (a) shall be for a term of not more than 5 years.

(e) Presidential Academies

(1) Use of funds Each eligible entity that receives a grant under subsection (a)(1) shall use the grant funds to establish a Presidential Academy that offers a seminar or institute for teachers of American history and civics, which—

(A) provides intensive professional development opportunities for teachers of American history and civics to strengthen such teachers’ knowledge of the subjects of American history and civics;

(B) is led by a team of primary scholars and core teachers who are accomplished in the field of American history and civics;

(C) is conducted during the summer or other appropriate time; and

(D) is of not less than 2 weeks and not more than 6 weeks in duration.

(2) Selection of teachers Each year, each Presidential Academy shall select between 50 and 300 teachers of American history and civics from public or private elementary schools and secondary schools to attend the seminar or institute under paragraph (1).

(3) Teacher stipends Each teacher selected to participate in a seminar or institute under this subsection shall be awarded a fixed stipend based on the length of the seminar or institute to ensure that such teacher does not incur personal costs associated with the teacher’s participation in the seminar or institute.

(4) Priority In awarding grants under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that coordinate or align their activities with the National Park Service National Centennial Parks initiative to develop innovative and comprehensive programs using the resources of the National Parks.

(f) Congressional Academies

(1) Use of funds Each eligible entity that receives a grant under subsection (a)(2) shall use the grant funds to establish a Congressional Academy that offers a seminar or institute for outstanding students of American history and civics, which—

(A) broadens and deepens such students’ understanding of American history and civics;

(B) is led by a team of primary scholars and core teachers who are accomplished in the field of American history and civics;

(C) is conducted during the summer or other appropriate time; and

(D) is of not less than 2 weeks and not more than 6 weeks in duration.

(2) Selection of students

(A) In general Each year, each Congressional Academy shall select between 100 and 300 eligible students to attend the seminar or institute under paragraph (1).

(B) Eligible students A student shall be eligible to attend a seminar or institute offered by a Congressional Academy under this subsection if the student—

(i) is recommended by the student’s secondary school principal or other school leader to attend the seminar or institute; and

(ii) will be a secondary school junior or senior in the academic year following attendance at the seminar or institute.

(3) Student stipends Each student selected to participate in a seminar or institute under this subsection shall be awarded a fixed stipend based on the length of the seminar or institute to ensure that such student does not incur personal costs associated with the student’s participation in the seminar or institute.

(g) Matching funds

(1) In general An eligible entity that receives funds under subsection (a) shall provide, toward the cost of the activities assisted under the grant, from non-Federal sources, an amount equal to 100 percent of the amount of the grant.

(2) Waiver The Secretary may waive all or part of the matching requirement described in paragraph (1) for any fiscal year for an eligible entity if the Secretary determines that applying the matching requirement would result in serious hardship or an inability to carry out the activities described in subsection (e) or (f).

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2232](/us/pl/89/10/tII/s2232), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title II, § 2002](/us/pl/114/95/tII/s2002), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 1945](/us/stat/129/1945).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6662, [Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2202](/us/pl/89/10/tII/s2202), as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201](/us/pl/107/110/tII/s201), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 1644](/us/stat/115/1644), related to grants for mathematics and science partnerships, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 114–95, § 5](/us/pl/114/95/s5), title II, § 2002, Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 1806](/us/stat/129/1806), 1913, effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs.

A prior [section 2202 of Pub. L. 89–10](/us/pl/89/10/s2202) was classified to [section 6642 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6642), prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110).

Another prior [section 2202 of Pub. L. 89–10](/us/pl/89/10/s2202) was classified to [section 3012 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3012), prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 89–10](/us/pl/89/10) by [Pub. L. 103–382](/us/pl/103/382).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).

#### American History and Civics Education

[Pub. L. 108–474](/us/pl/108/474), Dec. 21, 2004, [118 Stat. 3898](/us/stat/118/3898), as amended by [Pub. L. 114–95, title IX, § 9215(j)](/us/pl/114/95/tIX/s9215/j), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2168](/us/stat/129/2168), provided that: “SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘American History and Civics Education Act of 2004’. “SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL ACADEMIES FOR TEACHING OF AMERICAN HISTORY AND CIVICS; CONGRESSIONAL ACADEMIES FOR STUDENTS OF AMERICAN HISTORY AND CIVICS.“(a) Establishment.—The Secretary of Education (referred to in this Act as the ‘Secretary’) may award not more than 12 grants, on a competitive basis—“(1) to entities to establish Presidential Academies for Teaching of American History and Civics that may offer workshops for both veteran and new teachers of American history and civics; and “(2) to entities to establish Congressional Academies for Students of American History and Civics. “(b) Application.—An entity that desires to receive a grant under subsection (a) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. “(c) Demonstrated Expertise.—The Secretary shall require that each entity, to be eligible to receive a grant under this section, demonstrate expertise in historical methodology or the teaching of history. “(d) Available Funds.—To carry out this section, the Secretary may use any funds appropriated for fiscal year 2005 or any subsequent fiscal year to carry out section 2232 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [[20 U.S.C. 6662](/us/usc/t20/s6662)]. “SEC. 3. NATIONAL HISTORY DAY PROGRAM.“The Secretary may award grants to the National History Day Program for the purpose of continuing and expanding its activities to promote the study of history and improve instruction.”

[[Pub. L. 114–95, title IX, § 9215(j)](/us/pl/114/95/tIX/s9215/j), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2168](/us/stat/129/2168), which directed amendment of [section 2(d) of Pub. L. 108–474](/us/pl/108/474/s2/d), set out above, by substituting “to carry out section 2232 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965” for “to carry out part D of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965”, was executed by making the substitution for “to carry out part D of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 7241](/us/usc/t20/s7241) et seq.)” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.]
