---
title: "§ 3412. Transfer of funds"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3412"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3412"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–477, § 13](/us/pl/102/477/s13), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/106/2304); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 13](/us/pl/115/93/s13), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/131/2034).)"
---
# § 3412. Transfer of funds

##### § 3412. Transfer of funds

(a) In general Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later than 30 days after the date of apportionment to the applicable Federal department or agency, the head of a Federal agency overseeing a program identified in a plan approved under this chapter shall transfer to the Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs for distribution to an Indian tribe any funds identified in the approved plan of the Indian tribe.

(b) Transfer of funds Notwithstanding any other provision of law, at the request of the Indian tribe, all program funds transferred to an Indian tribe in accordance with the approved plan of the Indian tribe shall be transferred to the Indian tribe pursuant to an existing contract, compact, or funding agreement awarded pursuant to title I or IV of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 5301](/us/usc/t25/s5301) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 102–477, § 13](/us/pl/102/477/s13), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/106/2304); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 13](/us/pl/115/93/s13), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/131/2034).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203). Title I of the Act is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 5321 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. Title IV of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 5361 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1 of Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638/s1), set out as a Short Title note under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary of the Interior, Secretary of Labor, Secretary of Health and Human Services, or the Secretary of Education, as appropriate, is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to provide for an interagency transfer of funds otherwise available to a tribal government in order to further the purposes of this chapter.”
