---
title: "§ 2208. Expenditure of appropriations; accounting"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2208"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2208"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 3677; [Feb. 9, 1889, ch. 122](/us/act/1889-02-09/ch122), §§ 1, 4, [25 Stat. 659](/us/stat/25/659).)"
---
# § 2208. Expenditure of appropriations; accounting

##### § 2208. Expenditure of appropriations; accounting

The Secretary of Agriculture shall direct and superintend the expenditure of all money appropriated to the Department and render accounts thereof.

*(R.S. § 3677; [Feb. 9, 1889, ch. 122](/us/act/1889-02-09/ch122), §§ 1, 4, [25 Stat. 659](/us/stat/25/659).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 3677 derived [act May 15, 1882, ch. 72, § 3](/us/act/1882-05-15/ch72/s3), [12 Stat. 388](/us/stat/12/388).

Section was formerly classified to [section 557a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s557a) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Agriculture” substituted in text for “Commissioner of Agriculture” pursuant to sections 1 and 4 of act Feb. 9, 1889, which are classified to [section 2202 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2202). See, also, [section 2205 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2205).

#### Buy American Requirements

[Pub. L. 110–234, title IV, § 4306](/us/pl/110/234/tIV/s4306), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1131](/us/stat/122/1131), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title IV, § 4306, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 1893, provided that: “(a) Findings.—The Congress finds the following:“(1) Federal law requires that commodities and products purchased with Federal funds be, to the extent practicable, of domestic origin. “(2) Federal Buy American statutory requirements seek to ensure that purchases made with Federal funds benefit domestic producers. “(3) The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ([42 U.S.C. 1751](/us/usc/t42/s1751) et seq.) requires the use of domestic food products for all meals served under the program, including food products purchased with local funds. “(b) Buy American Statutory Requirements.—The Department of Agriculture should undertake training, guidance, and enforcement of the various current Buy American statutory requirements and regulations, including those of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ([42 U.S.C. 1751](/us/usc/t42/s1751) et seq.).”

[[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical provisions. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 8701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8701).]

#### Compliance With Buy American Act

[Pub. L. 105–86, title VII, § 716](/us/pl/105/86/tVII/s716), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2106](/us/stat/111/2106), provided that: “Hereafter: (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.—None of the funds made available in this Act [see Tables for classification] may be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 ([former] [41 U.S.C. 10a–10c](/us/usc/t41/s10a–10c) [see chapter 83 of Title 41, Public Contracts]; popularly known as the ‘Buy American Act’). “(b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.—“(1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.—In the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products. “(2) Notice to recipients of assistance.—In providing financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the Congress. “(c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products as Made in America.—If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ‘Made in America’ inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.”

Similar provisions were contained in the following prior appropriation acts:

[Pub. L. 104–180, title VII, § 716](/us/pl/104/180/tVII/s716), Aug. 6, 1996, [110 Stat. 1598](/us/stat/110/1598).

[Pub. L. 104–37, title VII, § 716](/us/pl/104/37/tVII/s716), Oct. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 330](/us/stat/109/330).

[Pub. L. 103–330, title VII, § 719](/us/pl/103/330/tVII/s719), Sept. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 2468](/us/stat/108/2468).

[Pub. L. 103–111, title VII, § 727](/us/pl/103/111/tVII/s727), Oct. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 1080](/us/stat/107/1080).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers, agencies, and employees of Department of Agriculture transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2201).
