---
title: "§ 224. Entries under land laws; toll road"
identifier: "USC-T16-S224"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section224"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Feb. 26, 1919, ch. 44, § 4](/us/act/1919-02-26/ch44/s4), [40 Stat. 1177](/us/stat/40/1177).)"
---
# § 224. Entries under land laws; toll road

##### § 224. Entries under land laws; toll road

Nothing herein contained shall affect any valid claim, location, or entry existing under the land laws of the United States, prior to February 26, 1919, whether for homestead, mineral, right-of-way, or any other purpose whatsoever, or shall affect the rights of any such claimant, locator, or entryman to the full use and enjoyment of his land and nothing herein contained shall affect, diminish, or impair the right and authority of the county of Coconino, in the State of Arizona, to levy and collect tolls for the passage of livestock over and upon the Bright Angel Toll Road and Trail, and the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to negotiate with the said county of Coconino for the purchase of said Bright Angel Toll Road and Trail and all rights therein.

*([Feb. 26, 1919, ch. 44, § 4](/us/act/1919-02-26/ch44/s4), [40 Stat. 1177](/us/stat/40/1177).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Herein, referred to in text, means act Feb. 26, 1919, which is classified to sections 221, 222 to 228, and 687 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

The words “prior to February 26, 1919,” were in the original “existing”, and refer to the date of enactment of act Feb. 26, 1919.

A provision of the original text requiring a report to Congress as to terms upon which the toll road and trail mentioned herein might be purchased was omitted as historically obsolete.
