---
title: "§ 7401. Restriction relating to United States accession to the International Criminal Court"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 705]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s705), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–460.)"
---
# § 7401. Restriction relating to United States accession to the International Criminal Court

##### § 7401. Restriction relating to United States accession to the International Criminal Court

(a) Prohibition The United States shall not become a party to the International Criminal Court except pursuant to a treaty made under Article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States on or after November 29, 1999.

(b) Prohibition on use of funds None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this or any other Act may be obligated for use by, or for support of, the International Criminal Court unless the United States has become a party to the Court pursuant to a treaty made under Article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States on or after November 29, 1999.

(c) International Criminal Court defined In this section, the term “International Criminal Court” means the court established by the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted by the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court on July 17, 1998.

*([Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 705]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s705), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–460.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 262–1 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262–1).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 107–206, title II, § 2001](/us/pl/107/206/tII/s2001), Aug. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 899](/us/stat/116/899), provided that: “This title [enacting subchapter II of this chapter] may be cited as the ‘American Servicemembers’ Protection Act of 2002’.”
