---
title: "§ 1406a. Expenses of management and operation of transferred projects as nonadministrative; payment"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1406a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1406a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([May 10, 1939, ch. 119, § 1](/us/act/1939-05-10/ch119/s1), [53 Stat. 690](/us/stat/53/690).)"
---
# § 1406a. Expenses of management and operation of transferred projects as nonadministrative; payment

##### § 1406a. Expenses of management and operation of transferred projects as nonadministrative; payment

On and after May 10, 1939 all necessary expenses in connection with the management and operation of projects transferred to the Authority by Executive Order Numbered 7732 of October 27, 1937, as modified by Executive Order Numbered 7839 of March 12, 1938, may be considered as nonadministrative expenses, notwithstanding the provisions of [section 712a of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s712a), and be paid from the rents received from each transferred project.

*([May 10, 1939, ch. 119, § 1](/us/act/1939-05-10/ch119/s1), [53 Stat. 690](/us/stat/53/690).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the United States Housing Act of 1937 which comprises this chapter.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act June 25, 1938, ch. 681, title I](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch681/tI), [52 Stat. 1129](/us/stat/52/1129).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries; Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

The Authority, meaning the United States Housing Authority, was consolidated with other agencies into the Housing and Home Finance Agency, and name of Authority changed to Public Housing Administration by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1947, eff. July 27, 1947, 12 F.R. 4981, [61 Stat. 954](/us/stat/61/954), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Functions of Public Housing Administration and Housing and Home Finance Agency (of which Public Housing Administration was a constituent agency) and of heads thereof transferred to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669), which is classified to [section 3534(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3534/a). Section 9(c) of such act, set out as a note under [section 3531 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3531), provided that references to Housing and Home Finance Agency or to any agency or officer therein are to be deemed to mean Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and that Housing and Home Finance Agency and Public Housing Administration have lapsed.

Executive Order No. 7732, Oct. 27, 1937, 2 F.R. 2324, 44 C.F.R. 201.11, effective Nov. 1, 1937, transferred to the United States Housing Authority all right, interest, and title held by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works in any housing or slum-clearance projects constructed or in the process of construction on Sept. 1, 1937.
