---
title: "§ 5494. Relation of provisions of this chapter to certain provisions of appropriations acts"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5494"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5494"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–179, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/101/179/tVIII/s804), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1323](/us/stat/103/1323).)"
---
# § 5494. Relation of provisions of this chapter to certain provisions of appropriations acts

##### § 5494. Relation of provisions of this chapter to certain provisions of appropriations acts

Any provision of the annual Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act that provides that assistance for Poland or Hungary under that Act may be provided “notwithstanding any other provision of law” shall not supersede any otherwise applicable provision of this chapter. This section shall not, however, be construed to apply with respect to section 599C(b) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 (or a corresponding provision of a subsequent such appropriations Act.

*([Pub. L. 101–179, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/101/179/tVIII/s804), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1323](/us/stat/103/1323).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, referred to in text, is for fiscal year 1990, [Pub. L. 101–167](/us/pl/101/167), Nov. 21, 1989, [103 Stat. 1195](/us/stat/103/1195). Section 599C(b) of the 1990 Act, [103 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/103/1261), is not classified to the Code. For complete classification of this and other Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Appropriations Acts to the Code, see Tables.

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 101–179](/us/pl/101/179), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1298](/us/stat/103/1298), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5401 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5401) and Tables.
