---
title: "§ 3141. Grants for public works and economic development"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3141"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3141"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 201](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s201), as added [Pub. L. 105–393, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/105/393/tI/s102/a), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3601](/us/stat/112/3601); amended [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2213(a)](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2213/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3179](/us/stat/138/3179).)"
---
# § 3141. Grants for public works and economic development

##### § 3141. Grants for public works and economic development

(a) In general On the application of an eligible recipient, the Secretary may make grants for—

(1) acquisition or development of land and improvements for use for a public works, public service, or development facility or for the improvement of waste management and recycling systems; and

(2) acquisition, design and engineering, construction, rehabilitation, alteration, expansion, increasing the resilience 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. or improvement of such a facility, including related machinery and equipment.

(b) Criteria for grant The Secretary may make a grant under this section only if the Secretary determines that—

(1) the project for which the grant is applied for will, directly or indirectly—

(A) improve the opportunities, in the area where the project is or will be located, for the successful establishment, expansion, or retention,22 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. of industrial or commercial plants or facilities;

(B) assist in the creation of additional long-term employment opportunities in the area; or

(C) primarily benefit the long-term unemployed and underemployed and members of low-income families;

(2) the project for which the grant is applied for will fulfill a pressing need of the area, or a part of the area, in which the project is or will be located; and

(3) the area for which the project is to be carried out has a comprehensive economic development strategy and the project is consistent with the strategy.

(c) Additional considerations In awarding grants under subsection (a) and subject to the criteria in subsection (b), the Secretary may also consider the extent to which a project would—

(1) lead to economic diversification in the area, or a part of the area, in which the project is or will be located;

(2) address and mitigate economic impacts from extreme weather events, including development of resilient infrastructure, products, and processes;

(3) benefit highly rural communities without adequate tax revenues to invest in long-term or costly infrastructure;

(4) increase access to high-speed broadband;

(5) support outdoor recreation to spur economic development, with a focus on rural communities;

(6) promote job creation or retention relative to the population of the impacted region with outsized significance;

(7) promote travel and tourism; or

(8) promote blue economy activities.

(d) Maximum assistance for each State Not more than 15 percent of the amounts made available to carry out this section may be expended in any 1 State.

*([Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 201](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s201), as added [Pub. L. 105–393, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/105/393/tI/s102/a), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3601](/us/stat/112/3601); amended [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2213(a)](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2213/a), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3179](/us/stat/138/3179).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3141, [Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 201](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s201), Aug. 26, 1965, [79 Stat. 554](/us/stat/79/554); [Pub. L. 91–304, § 1(b)](/us/pl/91/304/s1/b), July 6, 1970, [84 Stat. 375](/us/stat/84/375); [Pub. L. 92–65, title I, § 104](/us/pl/92/65/tI/s104), Aug. 5, 1971, [85 Stat. 167](/us/stat/85/167); [Pub. L. 93–46, § 2](/us/pl/93/46/s2), June 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 96](/us/stat/87/96); [Pub. L. 93–423, § 4(a)](/us/pl/93/423/s4/a), Sept. 27, 1974, [88 Stat. 1158](/us/stat/88/1158); [Pub. L. 94–487, title I, § 107(a)](/us/pl/94/487/tI/s107/a), (b), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2332](/us/stat/90/2332); [Pub. L. 96–506, § 1(3)](/us/pl/96/506/s1/3), Dec. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 2745](/us/stat/94/2745); [Pub. L. 97–35, title XVIII, § 1821(a)(2)](/us/pl/97/35/tXVIII/s1821/a/2), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 766](/us/stat/95/766), authorized public works and development facility loans, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 105–393, § 102(a)](/us/pl/105/393/s102/a).

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2213(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/118/272/s2213/a/1/A), inserted “or for the improvement of waste management and recycling systems” after “development facility”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2213(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/118/272/s2213/a/1/B), inserted “increasing the resilience” after “expansion,”.

Subsec. (b)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2213(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/118/272/s2213/a/2/A), substituted “successful establishment, expansion, or retention,” for “successful establishment or expansion”.

Subsec. (b)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2213(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/118/272/s2213/a/2/B), inserted “and underemployed” after “unemployed”.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2213(a)(3)](/us/pl/118/272/s2213/a/3), (4), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Feb. 11, 1999, see [section 105 of Pub. L. 105–393](/us/pl/105/393/s105), set out as a note under [section 3121 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3121).
