---
title: "§ 40305. Specific national needs"
identifier: "USC-T51-S40305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section40305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3385](/us/stat/124/3385).)"
---
# § 40305. Specific national needs

##### § 40305. Specific national needs

(a) Identification of Specific Needs and Grant-Making and Contracting Authority.— The Administrator shall identify specific national needs and problems relating to space. The Administrator may make grants or enter into contracts under this section with respect to such needs or problems. The amount of any such grant or contract may equal up to 100 percent of the total cost of the project involved.

(b) Applications for Grants or Contracts.— Any person may apply to the Administrator for a grant or contract under this section. In addition, the Administrator may invite applications with respect to specific national needs or problems identified under subsection (a). Application shall be made in such form and manner, and with such content and other submissions, as the Administrator shall by regulation prescribe. Any grant made, or contract entered into, under this section shall be subject to the limitations and provisions set forth in paragraphs (2) and (4) of [section 40304(d) of this title](/us/usc/t51/s40304/d) and to such other terms, conditions, and requirements as the Administrator considers necessary or appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3385](/us/stat/124/3385).)*

In subsection (a), the words “up to 100 percent” are substituted for “100 percent, or any lesser percent” to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40305 | 42 U.S.C. 2486e. | Pub. L. 100–147, title II, § 207, Oct. 30, 1987, 101 Stat. 873. |
