---
title: "§ 3208. Outreach responsibilities"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3208"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3208"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–25, title V, § 511](/us/pl/115/25/tV/s511), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 127](/us/stat/131/127).)"
---
# § 3208. Outreach responsibilities

##### § 3208. Outreach responsibilities

(1) the development of outreach plans to ensure the close integration of tsunami warning centers supported or maintained under [section 3203(d) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3203/d), as amended by this Act, with local Weather Forecast Offices of the National Weather Service and emergency managers;

(2) working with appropriate local Weather Forecast Offices to ensure they have the technical knowledge and capability to disseminate tsunami warnings to the communities they serve; and

(3) evaluating the effectiveness of warnings and of coordination with local Weather Forecast Offices after significant tsunami events.

*([Pub. L. 115–25, title V, § 511](/us/pl/115/25/tV/s511), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 127](/us/stat/131/127).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 3203(d) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3203/d), as amended by this Act, referred to in par. (1), means [section 3203(d) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3203/d), as amended by [Pub. L. 115–25](/us/pl/115/25).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Tsunami Warning, Education, and Research Act of 2017, and also as part of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017, and not as part of the Tsunami Warning and Education Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “State” as used in this section, see [section 8501 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s8501), Commerce and Trade.
