---
title: "§ 1656. Other contract and grant requirements"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1656"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1656"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 506](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s506), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title V, § 501](/us/pl/100/713/tV/s501), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4823](/us/stat/102/4823); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 501(b)(4)](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s501/b/4), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4568](/us/stat/106/4568).)"
---
# § 1656. Other contract and grant requirements

##### § 1656. Other contract and grant requirements

(a) Federal regulations; exceptions Contracts with urban Indian organizations entered into pursuant to this subchapter shall be in accordance with all Federal contracting laws and regulations except that, in the discretion of the Secretary, such contracts may be negotiated without advertising and need not conform to the provisions of sections 3131 and 3133 of title 40.

(b) Payment Payments under any contracts or grants pursuant to this subchapter may be made in advance or by way of reimbursement and in such installments and on such conditions as the Secretary deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

(c) Revision or amendment Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Secretary may, at the request or consent of an urban Indian organization, revise or amend any contract entered into by the Secretary with such organization under this subchapter as necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

(d) Existing Government facilities In connection with any contract or grant entered into pursuant to this subchapter, the Secretary may permit an urban Indian organization to utilize, in carrying out such contract or grant, existing facilities owned by the Federal Government within the Secretary’s jurisdiction under such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon for the use and maintenance of such facilities.

(e) Uniform provision of services and assistance Contracts with, or grants to, urban Indian organizations and regulations adopted pursuant to this subchapter shall include provisions to assure the fair and uniform provision to urban Indians of services and assistance under such contracts or grants by such organizations.

(f) Eligibility for health care or referral services Urban Indians, as defined in section 1603(f) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, shall be eligible for health care or referral services provided pursuant to this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 506](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s506), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title V, § 501](/us/pl/100/713/tV/s501), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4823](/us/stat/102/4823); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 501(b)(4)](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s501/b/4), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4568](/us/stat/106/4568).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1603(f) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1603/f), referred to in subsec. (f), was redesignated [section 1603(28) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1603/28) by [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).

#### Codification

“Sections 3131 and 3133 of title 40” substituted in subsec. (a) for “the Act of August 24, 1935 ([40 U.S.C. 270a](/us/usc/t40/s270a), et seq.)” on authority of [Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c)](/us/pl/107/217/s5/c), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/116/1303), the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1656, [Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 506](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s506), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1412](/us/stat/90/1412); [Pub. L. 96–537, § 7](/us/pl/96/537/s7), Dec. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 3179](/us/stat/94/3179), authorized appropriations, prior to the general revision of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 100–713](/us/pl/100/713).

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–573, § 501(b)(4)(D)](/us/pl/102/573/s501/b/4/D), inserted “and grant” in section catchline.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 501(b)(4)(A)](/us/pl/102/573/s501/b/4/A), inserted “or grants” after “any contracts”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 501(b)(4)(B)](/us/pl/102/573/s501/b/4/B), inserted “or grant” after “contract” in two places.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 501(b)(4)(C)](/us/pl/102/573/s501/b/4/C), inserted “, or grants to,” after “Contracts with” and “or grants” after “such contracts”.
