---
title: "§ 2655a. Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs within Department of State; Assistant Secretary of State as head of Bureau"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2655a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2655a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–126, § 9(a)](/us/pl/93/126/s9/a), formerly § 9, Oct. 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 453](/us/stat/87/453), renumbered [Pub. L. 93–312, § 9](/us/pl/93/312/s9), June 8, 1974, [88 Stat. 238](/us/stat/88/238); [Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 162(q)(1)](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s162/q/1), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 410](/us/stat/108/410); [Pub. L. 103–415, § 1(f)(4)(B)](/us/pl/103/415/s1/f/4/B), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4300](/us/stat/108/4300).)"
---
# § 2655a. Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs within Department of State; Assistant Secretary of State as head of Bureau

##### § 2655a. Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs within Department of State; Assistant Secretary of State as head of Bureau

There is established within the Department of State a Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs. There shall be an Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, who shall be the head of the Bureau and who shall have responsibility for matters relating to oceans, environmental, scientific, fisheries, wildlife, and conservation affairs and for such other related duties as the Secretary may from time to time designate.

*([Pub. L. 93–126, § 9(a)](/us/pl/93/126/s9/a), formerly § 9, Oct. 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 453](/us/stat/87/453), renumbered [Pub. L. 93–312, § 9](/us/pl/93/312/s9), June 8, 1974, [88 Stat. 238](/us/stat/88/238); [Pub. L. 103–236, title I, § 162(q)(1)](/us/pl/103/236/tI/s162/q/1), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 410](/us/stat/108/410); [Pub. L. 103–415, § 1(f)(4)(B)](/us/pl/103/415/s1/f/4/B), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4300](/us/stat/108/4300).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236), as amended by [Pub. L. 103–415](/us/pl/103/415), substituted “There shall” for “In addition to the positions provided under [section 2652 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2652), there shall” and inserted before period at end “and for such other related duties as the Secretary may from time to time designate”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) applicable with respect to officials, offices, and bureaus of Department of State when executive orders, regulations, or departmental directives implementing the amendments by sections 161 and 162 of [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) become effective, or 90 days after Apr. 30, 1994, whichever comes earlier, see [section 161(b) of Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236/s161/b), as amended, set out as a note under [section 2651a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651a).

#### Authority of Secretary of State

Except as otherwise provided, Secretary of State to have and exercise any authority vested by law in any official or office of Department of State and references to such officials or offices deemed to refer to Secretary of State or Department of State, as appropriate, see [section 2651a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651a) and [section 161(d) of Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236/s161/d), set out as a note under [section 2651a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651a).
