---
title: "§ 11313. Grants for local delinquency prevention programs"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11313"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11313"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title V, § 504](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12222(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12222/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1895](/us/stat/116/1895); amended [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 246(a)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s246/a), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2295](/us/stat/124/2295); [Pub. L. 115–385, title III, § 304](/us/pl/115/385/tIII/s304), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5147](/us/stat/132/5147).)"
---
# § 11313. Grants for local delinquency prevention programs

##### § 11313. Grants for local delinquency prevention programs

(a) Purpose The purpose of this section is to enable local communities to address the unmet needs of at-risk or delinquent youth, including through a continuum of delinquency prevention programs for juveniles who have had contact with the juvenile justice system or who are likely to have contact with the juvenile justice system.

(b) Program authorized The Administrator shall—

(1) for each fiscal year for which less than $25,000,000 is appropriated under section 506,11 See References in Text note below. award grants to not fewer than 3 State entities, but not more than 5 State entities, that apply under subsection (c) and meet the requirements of subsection (d); or

(2) for each fiscal year for which $25,000,000 or more is appropriated under section 506,^1 award grants to not fewer than 5 State entities that apply under subsection (c) and meet the requirements of subsection (d).

(c) State application To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a State entity shall submit an application to the Administrator that includes the following:

(1) An assurance the State entity will use—

(A) not more than 10 percent of such grant, in the aggregate—

(i) for the costs incurred by the State entity to carry out this section, except that not more than 3 percent of such grant may be used for such costs; and

(ii) to provide technical assistance to eligible entities receiving a subgrant under subsection (e) in carrying out delinquency prevention programs under the subgrant; and

(B) the remainder of such grant to award subgrants to eligible entities under subsection (e).

(2) An assurance that such grant will supplement, and not supplant, State and local efforts to prevent juvenile delinquency.

(3) An assurance the State entity will evaluate the capacity of eligible entities receiving a subgrant under subsection (e) to fulfill the requirements under such subsection.

(4) An assurance that such application was prepared after consultation with, and participation by, the State advisory group, units of local government, community-based organizations, and organizations that carry out programs, projects, or activities to prevent juvenile delinquency in the local juvenile justice system served by the State entity.

(d) Approval of State applications In awarding grants under this section for a fiscal year, the Administrator may not award a grant to a State entity for a fiscal year unless—

(1)

(A) the State that will be served by the State entity submitted a plan under [section 11133 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11133) for such fiscal year; and

(B) such plan is approved by the Administrator for such fiscal year; or

(2) after finding good cause for a waiver, the Administrator waives the plan required under subparagraph (A) for such State for such fiscal year.

(e) Subgrant program

(1) Program authorized

(A) In general Each State entity receiving a grant under this section shall award subgrants to eligible entities in accordance with this subsection.

(B) Priority In awarding subgrants under this subsection, the State shall give priority to eligible entities that demonstrate ability in—

(i) plans for service and agency coordination and collaboration including the collocation of services;

(ii) innovative ways to involve the private nonprofit and business sector in delinquency prevention activities;

(iii) developing data-driven prevention plans, employing evidence-based prevention strategies, and conducting program evaluations to determine impact and effectiveness;

(iv) identifying under the plan submitted under paragraph (5) potential savings and efficiencies associated with successful implementation of such plan; and

(v) describing how such savings and efficiencies may be used to carry out delinquency prevention programs and be reinvested in the continuing implementation of such programs after the end of the subgrant period.

(C) Subgrant program period and diversity of projects

(i) Program period A subgrant awarded to an eligible entity by a State entity under this section shall be for a period of not more than 5 years, of which the eligible entity—

(I) may use not more than 18 months for completing the plan submitted by the eligible entity under paragraph (5); and

(II) shall use the remainder of the subgrant period, after planning 22 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. period described in subclause (I), for the implementation of such plan.

(ii) Diversity of projects In awarding subgrants under this subsection, a State entity shall ensure, to the extent practicable and applicable, that such subgrants are distributed throughout different areas, including urban, suburban, and rural areas.

(2) Local application An eligible entity that desires a subgrant under this subsection shall submit an application to the State entity in the State of the eligible entity, at such time and in such manner as determined by the State entity, and that includes—

(A) a description of—

(i) the local policy board and local partners the eligible entity will engage in the development of the plan described in paragraph (5);

(ii) the unmet needs of at-risk or delinquent youth in the community;

(iii) available resources in the community to meet the unmet needs identified in the needs assessment described in paragraph (5)(A); 33 So in original. Probably should be followed by “and”.

(iv) potential costs to the community if the unmet needs are not addressed;

(B) a specific time period for the planning and subsequent implementation of its continuum of local delinquency prevention programs;

(C) the steps the eligible entity will take to implement the plan under subparagraph (A); and

(D) a plan to continue the grant activity with non-Federal funds, if proven successful according to the performance evaluation process under paragraph (5)(D), after the grant period.

(3) Matching requirement An eligible entity desiring a subgrant under this subsection shall agree to provide a 50 percent match of the amount of the subgrant that may include the value of in-kind contributions.

(4) Subgrant review

(A) Review Not later than the end of the second year of a subgrant period for a subgrant awarded to an eligible entity under this subsection and before awarding the remaining amount of the subgrant to the eligible entity, the State entity shall—

(i) ensure that the eligible entity has completed the plan submitted under paragraph (2) and that the plan meets the requirements of such paragraph; and

(ii) verify that the eligible entity will begin the implementation of its plan upon receiving the next installment of its subgrant award.

(B) Termination If the State entity finds through the review conducted under subparagraph (A) that the eligible entity has not met the requirements of clause (i) of such subparagraph, the State entity shall reallocate the amount remaining on the subgrant of the eligible entity to other eligible entities receiving a subgrant under this subsection or award the amount to an eligible entity during the next subgrant competition under this subsection.

(5) Local uses of funds An eligible entity that receives a subgrant under this subsection shall use the funds to implement a plan to carry out delinquency prevention programs in the community served by the eligible entity in a coordinated manner with other delinquency prevention programs or entities serving such community, which includes—

(A) an analysis of the unmet needs of at-risk or delinquent youth in the community—

(i) which shall include—

(I) the available resources in the community to meet the unmet needs; and

(II) factors present in the community that may contribute to delinquency, such as homelessness, food insecurity, teen pregnancy, youth unemployment, family instability, lack of educational opportunity; and

(ii) may include an estimate—

(I) for the most recent year for which reliable data is available, the amount expended by the community and other entities for delinquency adjudication for juveniles and the incarceration of adult offenders for offenses committed in such community; and

(II) of potential savings and efficiencies that may be achieved through the implementation of the plan;

(B) a minimum 3-year comprehensive strategy to address the unmet needs and an estimate of the amount or percentage of non-Federal funds that are available to carry out the strategy;

(C) a description of how delinquency prevention programs under the plan will be coordinated;

(D) a description of the performance evaluation process of the delinquency prevention programs to be implemented under the plan, which shall include performance measures to assess efforts to address the unmet needs of youth in the community analyzed under subparagraph (A);

(E) the evidence or promising evaluation on which such delinquency prevention programs are based; and

(F) if such delinquency prevention programs are proven successful according to the performance evaluation process under subparagraph (D), a strategy to continue such programs after the subgrant period with non-Federal funds, including a description of how any estimated savings or efficiencies created by the implementation of the plan may be used to continue such programs.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title V, § 504](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12222(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12222/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1895](/us/stat/116/1895); amended [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 246(a)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s246/a), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2295](/us/stat/124/2295); [Pub. L. 115–385, title III, § 304](/us/pl/115/385/tIII/s304), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5147](/us/stat/132/5147).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 506, referred to in subsec. (b), means [section 506 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s506), which was formerly section 505 of the Act prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385), and was classified to [section 5784 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5784), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to omission from the Code. After renumbering section 505 as 506, [Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385) went on to add a new section 505 of the Act and then repeal “section 505”, which was executed by repealing section 506 as renumbered, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. A new section relating to authorization of appropriations was enacted by [Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385) as [section 601 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s601) and is classified to [section 11321 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11321).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5783 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5783), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 504 of title V of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 102–586, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/586/s5/a), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5027](/us/stat/106/5027), set out the duties and functions of the Administrator, prior to the general amendment of title V of [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415) by [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273).

Another prior [section 504 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s504), title V, Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/88/1135), amended [section 5034 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s5034), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–385, title III, § 307](/us/pl/115/385/tIII/s307), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5152](/us/stat/132/5152). [Pub. L. 111–211](/us/pl/111/211), which directed amendment of [section 504 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s504), was executed to this section, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section provided for grants to States and Indian tribes for delinquency prevention programs.

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–211, § 246(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/211/s246/a/1), inserted “, or to federally recognized Indian tribe or consortia of federally recognized Indian tribes under subsection (d)” after “subsection (b)” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–211, § 246(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/211/s246/a/2), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385) not applicable with respect to funds appropriated for any fiscal year that begins before Dec. 21, 2018, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385/s3), set out as a note under [section 11102 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11102).

#### Youth Violence Reduction Demonstration Projects

[Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1199](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1199), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3132](/us/stat/119/3132), provided that: “(a) Establishment of Youth Violence Reduction Demonstration Projects.—“(1) In general.—The Attorney General shall make up to 5 grants for the purpose of carrying out Youth Violence Demonstration Projects to reduce juvenile and young adult violence, homicides, and recidivism among high-risk populations. “(2) Eligible entities.—An entity is eligible for a grant under paragraph (1) if it is a unit of local government or a combination of local governments established by agreement for purposes of undertaking a demonstration project. “(b) Selection of Grant Recipients.—“(1) Awards.—The Attorney General shall award grants for Youth Violence Reduction Demonstration Projects on a competitive basis. “(2) Amount of awards.—No single grant award made under subsection (a) shall exceed $15,000,000 per fiscal year. “(3) Application.—An application for a grant under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to the Attorney General in such a form, and containing such information and assurances, as the Attorney General may require, and at a minimum shall propose—“(A) a program strategy targeting areas with the highest incidence of youth violence and homicides; “(B) outcome measures and specific objective indicia of performance to assess the effectiveness of the program; and “(C) a plan for evaluation by an independent third party. “(4) Distribution.—In making grants under this section, the Attorney General shall ensure the following:“(A) No less than 1 recipient is a city with a population exceeding 1,000,000 and an increase of at least 30 percent in the aggregated juvenile and young adult homicide victimization rate during calendar year 2005 as compared to calendar year 2004. “(B) No less than one recipient is a nonmetropolitan county or group of counties with per capita arrest rates of juveniles and young adults for serious violent offenses that exceed the national average for nonmetropolitan counties by at least 5 percent. “(5) Criteria.—In making grants under this section, the Attorney General shall give preference to entities operating programs that meet the following criteria:“(A) A program focusing on—“(i) reducing youth violence and homicides, with an emphasis on juvenile and young adult probationers and other juveniles and young adults who have had or are likely to have contact with the juvenile justice system; “(ii) fostering positive relationships between program participants and supportive adults in the community; and “(iii) accessing comprehensive supports for program participants through coordinated community referral networks, including job opportunities, educational programs, counseling services, substance abuse programs, recreational opportunities, and other services. “(B) A program goal of almost daily contacts with and supervision of participating juveniles and young adults through small caseloads and a coordinated team approach among case managers drawn from the community, probation officers, and police officers. “(C) The use of existing structures, local government agencies, and nonprofit organizations to operate the program. “(D) Inclusion in program staff of individuals who live or have lived in the community in which the program operates; have personal experiences or cultural competency that build credibility in relationships with program participants; and will serve as a case manager, intermediary, and mentor. “(E) Fieldwork and neighborhood outreach in communities where the young violent offenders live, including support of the program from local public and private organizations and community members. “(F) Imposition of graduated probation sanctions to deter violent and criminal behavior. “(G) A record of program operation and effectiveness evaluation over a period of at least five years prior to the date of enactment of this Act [Jan. 5, 2006]. “(H) A program structure that can serve as a model for other communities in addressing the problem of youth violence and juvenile and young adult recidivism. “(c) Authorized Activities.—Amounts paid to an eligible entity under a grant award may be used for the following activities:“(1) Designing and enhancing program activities. “(2) Employing and training personnel. “(3) Purchasing or leasing equipment. “(4) Providing services and training to program participants and their families. “(5) Supporting related law enforcement and probation activities, including personnel costs. “(6) Establishing and maintaining a system of program records. “(7) Acquiring, constructing, expanding, renovating, or operating facilities to support the program. “(8) Evaluating program effectiveness. “(9) Undertaking other activities determined by the Attorney General as consistent with the purposes and requirements of the demonstration program. “(d) Evaluation and Reports.—“(1) Independent evaluation.—The Attorney General may use up to $500,000 of funds appropriated annually under this such section to—“(A) prepare and implement a design for interim and overall evaluations of performance and progress of the funded demonstration projects; “(B) provide training and technical assistance to grant recipients; and “(C) disseminate broadly the information generated and lessons learned from the operation of the demonstration projects. “(2) Reports to congress.—Not later than 120 days after the last day of each fiscal year for which 1 or more demonstration grants are awarded, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report which shall include—“(A) a summary of the activities carried out with such grants; “(B) an assessment by the Attorney General of the program carried out; and “(C) such other information as the Attorney General considers appropriate. “(e) Federal Share.—“(1) In general.—The Federal share of a grant awarded under this Act [see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101)] shall not exceed 90 percent of the total program costs. “(2) Non-federal share.—The non-Federal share of such cost may be provided in cash or in-kind. “(f) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Unit of local government.—The term ‘unit of local government’ means a county, township, city, or political subdivision of a county, township, or city, that is a unit of local government as determined by the Secretary of Commerce for general statistical purposes. “(2) Juvenile.—The term ‘juvenile’ means an individual who is 17 years of age or younger. “(3) Young adult.—The term ‘young adult’ means an individual who is 18 through 24 years of age. “(g) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2007 and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2009, to remain available until expended.”

#### National Police Athletic/Activities League Youth Enrichment

[Pub. L. 106–367](/us/pl/106/367), Oct. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 1412](/us/stat/114/1412), as amended by [Pub. L. 109–248, title VI](/us/pl/109/248/tVI), §§ 612–617, July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 632](/us/stat/120/632), 633, provided that: “SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘National Police Athletic/Activities League Youth Enrichment Act of 2000’. “SEC. 2. FINDINGS.“Congress makes the following findings:“(1) The goals of the Police Athletic/Activities League are to—“(A) increase the academic success of youth participants in PAL programs; “(B) promote a safe, healthy environment for youth under the supervision of law enforcement personnel where mutual trust and respect can be built; “(C) develop life enhancing character and leadership skills in young people; “(D) increase school attendance by providing alternatives to suspensions and expulsions; “(E) reduce the juvenile crime rate in participating designated communities and the number of police calls involving juveniles during nonschool hours; “(F) provide youths with alternatives to drugs, alcohol, tobacco, and gang activity; “(G) create positive communications and interaction between youth and law enforcement personnel; and “(H) prepare youth for the workplace. “(2) The Police Athletic/Activities League, during its 90-year history as a national organization, has proven to be a positive force in the communities it serves. “(3) The Police Athletic/Activities League is a network of 1,700 facilities serving over 3,000 communities. There are 350 PAL chapters throughout the United States, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, serving 2,000,000 youth, ages 5 to 18, nationwide. “(4) Based on PAL chapter demographics, approximately 85 percent of the youths who benefit from PAL programs live in inner cities and urban areas. “(5) PAL chapters are locally operated, volunteer-driven organizations. Although most PAL chapters are sponsored by a law enforcement agency, PAL chapters rarely receive direct funding from law enforcement agencies and are dependent in large part on support from the private sector, such as individuals, business leaders, corporations, and foundations. PAL chapters have been exceptionally successful in balancing public funds with private sector donations and maximizing community involvement. “(6) Today’s youth face far greater risks than did their parents and grandparents. Law enforcement statistics demonstrate that youth between the ages of 12 and 18 are at risk of committing violent acts and being victims of violent acts between the hours of 3 p.m. and 8 p.m. “(7) Greater numbers of students are dropping out of school and failing in school, even though the consequences of academic failure are more dire in 2005 than ever before. “(8) Many distressed areas in the United States are still underserved by PAL chapters. “SEC. 3. PURPOSE.“The purpose of this Act is to provide adequate resources in the form of—“(1) assistance for the 342 established PAL chapters to increase of services to the communities they are serving; “(2) seed money for the establishment of 250 (50 per year over a 5-year period) additional local PAL chapters in public housing projects and other distressed areas, including distressed areas with a majority population of Native Americans, by not later than fiscal year 2010; and “(3) support of an annual gathering of PAL chapters and designated youth leaders from such chapters to participate in a 3-day conference that addresses national and local issues impacting the youth of America and includes educational sessions to advance character and leadership skills. “SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.“In this Act:“(1) Assistant attorney general.—The term ‘Assistant Attorney General’ means the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice. “(2) Distressed area.—The term ‘distressed area’ means an urban, suburban, or rural area with a high percentage of high-risk youth, as defined in section 509A of the Public Health Service Act ([42 U.S.C. 290aa–8(f)](/us/usc/t42/s290aa–8/f)) [transferred to [42 U.S.C. 290bb–23(g)](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–23/g) and repealed by [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title IX, § 9017](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tIX/s9017), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/130/1248)]. “(3) PAL chapter.—The term ‘PAL chapter’ means a chapter of a Police or Sheriff’s Athletic/Activities League. “(4) Police Athletic/activities league.—The term ‘Police Athletic/Activities League’ means the private, nonprofit, national representative organization for 320 Police or Sheriff’s Athletic/Activities Leagues throughout the United States (including the Virgin Islands and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico). “(5) Public housing; project.—The terms ‘public housing’ and ‘project’ have the meanings given those terms in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 ([42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)](/us/usc/t42/s1437a/b)). “SEC. 5. GRANTS AUTHORIZED.“(a) In General.—Subject to appropriations, for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010, the Assistant Attorney General shall award a grant to the Police Athletic/Activities League for the purpose of establishing PAL chapters to serve public housing projects and other distressed areas, and expanding existing PAL chapters to serve additional youths. “(b) Application.—“(1) Submission.—In order to be eligible to receive a grant under this section, the Police Athletic/Activities League shall submit to the Assistant Attorney General an application, which shall include—“(A) a long-term strategy to establish 250 additional PAL chapters and detailed summary of those areas in which new PAL chapters will be established, or in which existing chapters will be expanded to serve additional youths, during the next fiscal year; “(B) a plan to ensure that there are a total of not fewer than 500 PAL chapters in operation before January 1, 2010; “(C) a certification that there will be appropriate coordination with those communities where new PAL chapters will be located; and “(D) an explanation of the manner in which new PAL chapters will operate without additional, direct Federal financial assistance once assistance under this Act is discontinued. “(2) Review.—The Assistant Attorney General shall review and take action on an application submitted under paragraph (1) not later than 120 days after the date of such submission. “SEC. 6. USE OF FUNDS.“(a) In General.—“(1) Assistance for new and expanded chapters.—Amounts made available under a grant awarded under this Act shall be used by the Police Athletic/Activities League to provide funding for the establishment of PAL chapters serving public housing projects and other distressed areas, or the expansion of existing PAL chapters. “(2) Program requirements.—Each new or expanded PAL chapter assisted under paragraph (1) shall carry out not less than two programs during nonschool hours, of which—“(A) not less than one program shall provide—“(i) mentoring assistance; “(ii) academic assistance; “(iii) recreational and athletic activities; “(iv) technology training; or “(v) character development and leadership training; and “(B) any remaining programs shall provide—“(i) drug, alcohol, and gang prevention activities; “(ii) health and nutrition counseling; “(iii) cultural and social programs; “(iv) conflict resolution training, anger management, and peer pressure training; “(v) job skill preparation activities; or “(vi) Youth Police Athletic/Activities League Conferences or Youth Forums. “(b) Additional Requirements.—In carrying out the programs under subsection (a), a PAL chapter shall, to the maximum extent practicable—“(1) use volunteers from businesses, academic communities, social organizations, and law enforcement organizations to serve as mentors or to assist in other ways; “(2) ensure that youth in the local community participate in designing the after-school activities; “(3) develop creative methods of conducting outreach to youth in the community; “(4) request donations of computer equipment and other materials and equipment; and “(5) work with State and local park and recreation agencies so that activities funded with amounts made available under a grant under this Act will not duplicate activities funded from other sources in the community served. “SEC. 7. REPORTS.“(a) Report to Assistant Attorney General.—For each fiscal year for which a grant is awarded under this Act, the Police Athletic/Activities League shall submit to the Assistant Attorney General a report on the use of amounts made available under the grant. “(b) Report to Congress.—Not later than May 1 of each fiscal year for which amounts are made available to carry out this Act, the Assistant Attorney General shall submit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that details the progress made under this Act in establishing and expanding PAL chapters in public housing projects and other distressed areas, and the effectiveness of the PAL programs in reducing drug abuse, school dropouts, and juvenile crime. “SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.“(a) In General.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $16,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010. “(b) Funding for Program Administration.—Of the amount made available to carry out this Act in each fiscal year—“(1) not less than 2 percent shall be used for research and evaluation of the grant program under this Act; “(2) not less than 1 percent shall be used for technical assistance related to the use of amounts made available under grants awarded under this Act; and “(3) not less than 1 percent shall be used for the management and administration of the grant program under this Act, except that the total amount made available under this paragraph for administration of that program shall not exceed 6 percent.”

[[Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 612(3)(B)](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s612/3/B), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 632](/us/stat/120/632), which directed amendment of [section 2(3) of Pub. L. 106–367](/us/pl/106/367/s2/3), set out above, by substituting “2,000,000 youth” for “1,500,000 youth”, was executed by making the substitution for “1,500,000 youths”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.]

#### Kids 2000 Crime Prevention and Computer Education Initiative

[Pub. L. 106–313, title I, § 112](/us/pl/106/313/tI/s112), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1260](/us/stat/114/1260), provided that: “(a) Short Title.—This section may be cited as the ‘Kids 2000 Act’. “(b) Findings.—Congress makes the following findings:“(1) There is an increasing epidemic of juvenile crime throughout the United States. “(2) It is well documented that the majority of juvenile crimes take place during after-school hours. “(3) Knowledge of technology is becoming increasingly necessary for children in school and out of school. “(4) The Boys and Girls Clubs of America have 2,700 clubs throughout all 50 States, serving over 3,000,000 boys and girls primarily from at-risk communities. “(5) The Boys and Girls Clubs of America have the physical structures in place for immediate implementation of an after-school technology program. “(6) Building technology centers and providing integrated content and full-time staffing at those centers in the Boys and Girls Clubs of America nationwide will help foster education, job training, and an alternative to crime for at-risk youth. “(7) Partnerships between the public sector and the private sector are an effective way of providing after-school technology programs in the Boys and Girls Clubs of America. “(8) PowerUp: Bridging the Digital Divide is an entity comprised of more than a dozen nonprofit organizations, major corporations, and Federal agencies that have joined together to launch a major new initiative to help ensure that America’s underserved young people acquire the skills, experiences, and resources they need to succeed in the digital age. “(9) Bringing PowerUp into the Boys and Girls Clubs of America will be an effective way to ensure that our youth have a safe, crime-free environment in which to learn the technological skills they need to close the divide between young people who have access to computer-based information and technology-related skills and those who do not. “(c) After-School Technology Grants to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America.—“(1) Purposes.—The Attorney General shall make grants to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America for the purpose of funding effective after-school technology programs, such as PowerUp, in order to provide—“(A) constructive technology-focused activities that are part of a comprehensive program to provide access to technology and technology training to youth during after-school hours, weekends, and school vacations; “(B) supervised activities in safe environments for youth; and “(C) full-time staffing with teachers, tutors, and other qualified personnel. “(2) Subawards.—The Boys and Girls Clubs of America shall make subawards to local boys and girls clubs authorizing expenditures associated with providing technology programs such as PowerUp, including the hiring of teachers and other personnel, procurement of goods and services, including computer equipment, or such other purposes as are approved by the Attorney General. “(d) Applications.—“(1) Eligibility.—In order to be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an applicant for a subaward (specified in subsection (c)(2)) shall submit an application to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, in such form and containing such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require. “(2) Application requirements.—Each application submitted in accordance with paragraph (1) shall include—“(A) a request for a subgrant to be used for the purposes of this section; “(B) a description of the communities to be served by the grant, including the nature of juvenile crime, violence, and drug use in the communities; “(C) written assurances that Federal funds received under this section will be used to supplement and not supplant, non-Federal funds that would otherwise be available for activities funded under this section; “(D) written assurances that all activities funded under this section will be supervised by qualified adults; “(E) a plan for assuring that program activities will take place in a secure environment that is free of crime and drugs; “(F) a plan outlining the utilization of content-based programs such as PowerUp, and the provision of trained adult personnel to supervise the after-school technology training; and “(G) any additional statistical or financial information that the Boys and Girls Clubs of America may reasonably require. “(e) Grant Awards.—In awarding subgrants under this section, the Boys and Girls Clubs of America shall consider—“(1) the ability of the applicant to provide the intended services; “(2) the history and establishment of the applicant in providing youth activities; and “(3) the extent to which services will be provided in crime-prone areas and technologically underserved populations, and efforts to achieve an equitable geographic distribution of the grant awards. “(f) Authorization of Appropriations.—“(1) In general.—There is authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2006 to carry out this section. “(2) Source of funds.—Funds to carry out this section may be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund. “(3) Continued availability.—Amounts made available under this subsection shall remain available until expended.”
