---
title: "§ 5423. Grants to States"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5423"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5423"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–383, title VI, § 624](/us/pl/93/383/tVI/s624), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 713](/us/stat/88/713); [Pub. L. 96–399, title III, § 308(c)(4)](/us/pl/96/399/tIII/s308/c/4), Oct. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 1641](/us/stat/94/1641).)"
---
# § 5423. Grants to States

##### § 5423. Grants to States

(a) Purposes The Secretary is authorized to make grants to the States which have designated a State agency under [section 5422 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5422) to assist them—

(1) in identifying their needs and responsibilities in the area of manufactured home construction and safety standards; or

(2) in developing State plans under [section 5422 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5422).

(b) Designation by Governor of State agency for receipt of grant The Governor of each State shall designate the appropriate State agency for receipt of any grant made by the Secretary under this section.

(c) Submission of application by State agency to Secretary; review by Secretary Any State agency designated by the Governor of a State desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application therefor to the Secretary. The Secretary shall review and either accept or reject such application.

(d) Amount of Federal share; equality of distribution of funds The Federal share for each State grant under subsection (a) of this section may not exceed 90 per centum of the total cost to the State in identifying its needs and developing its plan. In the event the Federal share for all States under such subsection is not the same, the differences among the States shall be established on the basis of objective criteria.

*([Pub. L. 93–383, title VI, § 624](/us/pl/93/383/tVI/s624), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 713](/us/stat/88/713); [Pub. L. 96–399, title III, § 308(c)(4)](/us/pl/96/399/tIII/s308/c/4), Oct. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 1641](/us/stat/94/1641).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1980—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 96–399](/us/pl/96/399) substituted “manufactured home” for “mobile home”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon the expiration of 180 days following Aug. 22, 1974, see [section 627 of Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383/s627), set out as a note under [section 5401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5401).
