---
title: "§ 107. Automatic execution of conforming changes"
identifier: "USC-T14-S107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, § 7103(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/s7103/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1662](/us/stat/139/1662).)"
---
# § 107. Automatic execution of conforming changes

##### § 107. Automatic execution of conforming changes

(a) In General.— When an amendment to a covered Coast Guard law adds a section or larger organizational unit to the covered Coast Guard law, repeals or transfers a section or larger organizational unit in the covered Coast Guard law, or amends the designation or heading of a section or larger organizational unit in the covered Coast Guard law, that amendment also shall have the effect of amending any analysis, table of contents, or similar tabular entries in the covered Coast Guard law to alter the table to conform to the changes made by the amendment.

(b) Exceptions.— Subsection (a) shall not apply to an amendment described in such subsection when—

(1) the amendment or a clerical amendment enacted at the same time expressly amends a table of sections, table of contents, or similar tabular entries in the covered maritime law to alter the table to conform to the changes made by the amendment; or

(2) the amendment otherwise expressly exempts itself from the operation of this section.

(c) Covered Coast Guard Law Defined.— In this section, the term “covered Coast Guard law” means—

(1) this title;

(2) any Coast Guard authorization Act that authorizes funds to be appropriated for a fiscal year to the Coast Guard; and

(3) any other law designated in the text thereof as a covered Coast Guard law for purposes of application of this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, § 7103(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/s7103/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1662](/us/stat/139/1662).)*
