---
title: "§ 2507. Study of barriers to participation of women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–530, § 8](/us/pl/102/530/s8), Oct. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 3467](/us/stat/106/3467).)"
---
# § 2507. Study of barriers to participation of women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations

##### § 2507. Study of barriers to participation of women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations

(a) Study With funds available to the Secretary to carry out the operations of the Department of Labor in fiscal years 1994 and 1995, the Secretary shall conduct a study of the participation of women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations. The study shall examine—

(1) the barriers to participation of women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations;

(2) strategies for overcoming such barriers;

(3) the retention rates for women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations;

(4) strategies for retaining women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations;

(5) the effectiveness of the technical assistance provided by the community-based organizations; and

(6) other relevant issues affecting the participation of women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations.

(b) Report Not later than 2 years after October 27, 1992, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report containing a summary of the results of the study described in subsection (a) and such recommendations as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 102–530, § 8](/us/pl/102/530/s8), Oct. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 3467](/us/stat/106/3467).)*
