---
title: "§ 6104. Compliance with minimum standards"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–178, title VII, § 7302(a)](/us/pl/105/178/tVII/s7302/a), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 479](/us/stat/112/479); amended [Pub. L. 107–355, § 2(b)](/us/pl/107/355/s2/b), Dec. 17, 2002, [116 Stat. 2985](/us/stat/116/2985).)"
---
# § 6104. Compliance with minimum standards

##### § 6104. Compliance with minimum standards

(a) Requirement.— In order to qualify for a grant under section 6106, each State shall submit to the Secretary a grant application under subsection (b). The State shall submit the application not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this chapter.

(b) Application.—

(1) Upon application by a State, the Secretary shall review that State’s one-call notification program, including the provisions for the implementation of the program and the record of compliance and enforcement under the program.

(2) Based on the review under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall determine whether the State’s one-call notification program meets the minimum standards for such a program set forth in section 6103 in order to qualify for a grant under section 6106.

(3) In order to expedite compliance under this section, the Secretary may consult with the State as to whether an existing State one-call notification program, a specific modification thereof, or a proposed State program would result in a positive determination under paragraph (2).

(4) The Secretary shall prescribe the form and manner of filing an application under this section that shall provide sufficient information about a State’s one-call notification program for the Secretary to evaluate its overall effectiveness. Such information may include the nature and reasons for exceptions from required participation, the types of enforcement available, and such other information as the Secretary deems necessary.

(5) The application of a State under paragraph (1) and the record of actions of the Secretary under this section shall be available to the public.

(c) Alternative Program.— A State is eligible to receive a grant under section 6106 if the State maintains an alternative one-call notification program that provides protection for public safety, excavators, and the environment that is equivalent to, or greater than, protection provided under a program that meets the minimum standards set forth in section 6103.

(d) Report.— The Secretary shall include the following information in reports submitted under [section 60124 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s60124)—

The report shall also include any recommendations the Secretary determines appropriate. If the Secretary determines that the purposes of this chapter have been substantially achieved, no further report under this section shall be required.

(1) a description of the extent to which each State has adopted and implemented the minimum Federal standards under section 6103 or maintains an alternative program under subsection (c);

(2) an analysis by the Secretary of the overall effectiveness of each State’s one-call notification program and the one-call notification systems operating under such program in achieving the purposes of this chapter;

(3) the impact of each State’s decisions on the extent of required participation in one-call notification systems on prevention of damage to underground facilities; and

(4) areas where improvements are needed in one-call notification systems in operation in each State.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–178, title VII, § 7302(a)](/us/pl/105/178/tVII/s7302/a), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 479](/us/stat/112/479); amended [Pub. L. 107–355, § 2(b)](/us/pl/107/355/s2/b), Dec. 17, 2002, [116 Stat. 2985](/us/stat/116/2985).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 105–178](/us/pl/105/178), which was approved June 9, 1998.

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 107–355](/us/pl/107/355) substituted “The Secretary shall” for “Within 3 years after the date of the enactment of this chapter, the Secretary shall begin to” in introductory provisions.
