---
title: "§ 1050. Jurisdiction of district courts; United States as plaintiff in enforcement and restraining proceedings; subpenas for witnesses"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1050"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1050"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–597, § 21](/us/pl/91/597/s21), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1632](/us/stat/84/1632).)"
---
# § 1050. Jurisdiction of district courts; United States as plaintiff in enforcement and restraining proceedings; subpenas for witnesses

##### § 1050. Jurisdiction of district courts; United States as plaintiff in enforcement and restraining proceedings; subpenas for witnesses

The United States district courts and the District Court of the Virgin Islands are vested with jurisdiction specifically to enforce, and to prevent and restrain violations of, this chapter, and shall have jurisdiction in all other cases, arising under this chapter, except as provided in [section 1047 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1047). All proceedings for the enforcement or to restrain violations of this chapter shall be by and in the name of the United States. Subpenas for witnesses who are required to attend a court of the United States, in any district, may run into any other district in any such proceeding.

*([Pub. L. 91–597, § 21](/us/pl/91/597/s21), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1632](/us/stat/84/1632).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–597](/us/pl/91/597), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1620](/us/stat/84/1620), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1031 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1031) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For effective date of this section, see [section 29 of Pub. L. 91–597](/us/pl/91/597/s29), set out as a note under [section 1031 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1031).
