---
title: "§ 3224. Intelligence officer training program"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3224"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3224"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title X, § 1024, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 313(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s313/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2665](/us/stat/124/2665); amended [Pub. L. 112–18, title III, § 304](/us/pl/112/18/tIII/s304), June 8, 2011, [125 Stat. 226](/us/stat/125/226); [Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 306](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s306), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3997](/us/stat/128/3997); [Pub. L. 114–113, div. M, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/114/113/dM/tVII/s7"
---
# § 3224. Intelligence officer training program

##### § 3224. Intelligence officer training program

(a) Programs

(1) The Director of National Intelligence may carry out grant programs in accordance with subsections (b) and (c) to enhance the recruitment and retention of an ethnically and culturally diverse intelligence community workforce with capabilities critical to the national security interests of the United States.

(2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Director shall identify the skills necessary to meet current or emergent needs of the intelligence community and the educational disciplines that will provide individuals with such skills.

(b) Institutional grant program

(1) The Director may provide grants to institutions of higher education to support the establishment or continued development of programs of study in educational disciplines identified under subsection (a)(2).

(2) A grant provided under paragraph (1) may, with respect to the educational disciplines identified under subsection (a)(2), be used for the following purposes:

(A) Curriculum or program development.

(B) Faculty development.

(C) Laboratory equipment or improvements.

(D) Faculty research.

(c) Grant program for certain minority-serving colleges and universities

(1) The Director may provide grants to historically black colleges and universities, Predominantly Black Institutions, Hispanic-serving institutions, and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions to provide programs of study in educational disciplines identified under subsection (a)(2) or described in paragraph (2).

(2) A grant provided under paragraph (1) may be used to provide programs of study in the following educational disciplines:

(A) Intermediate and advanced foreign languages deemed in the immediate interest of the intelligence community, including Farsi, Pashto, Middle Eastern, African, and South Asian dialects.

(B) Study abroad programs and cultural immersion programs.

(d) Application An institution of higher education seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application describing the proposed use of the grant at such time and in such manner as the Director may require.

(e) Reports An institution of higher education that receives a grant under this section shall submit to the Director regular reports regarding the use of such grant, including—

(1) a description of the benefits to students who participate in the course of study funded by such grant;

(2) a description of the results and accomplishments related to such course of study; and

(3) any other information that the Director may require.

(f) Regulations The Director shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.

(g) Definitions In this section:

(1) The term “Director” means the Director of National Intelligence.

(2) Historically black college and university.— The term “historically black college and university” has the meaning given the term “part B institution” in [section 1061 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1061).

(3) The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given the term in [section 1001 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

(4) Predominantly black institution.— The term “Predominantly Black Institution” has the meaning given the term in [section 1059e of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1059e).

(5) Hispanic-serving institution.— The term “Hispanic-serving institution” has the meaning given that term in [section 1101a(a)(5) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1101a/a/5).

(6) Asian american and native american pacific islander-serving institution.— The term “Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution” has the meaning given that term in [section 1059g(b)(2) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1059g/b/2).

(7) Study abroad program.— The term “study abroad program” means a program of study that—

(A) takes place outside the geographical boundaries of the United States;

(B) focuses on areas of the world that are critical to the national security interests of the United States and are generally underrepresented in study abroad programs at institutions of higher education, including Africa, Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, and the Middle East; and

(C) is a credit or noncredit program.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title X, § 1024, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 313(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s313/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2665](/us/stat/124/2665); amended [Pub. L. 112–18, title III, § 304](/us/pl/112/18/tIII/s304), June 8, 2011, [125 Stat. 226](/us/stat/125/226); [Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 306](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s306), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3997](/us/stat/128/3997); [Pub. L. 114–113, div. M, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/114/113/dM/tVII/s712), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2934](/us/stat/129/2934); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVIII, § 6824(a)(7)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVIII/s6824/a/7), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3615](/us/stat/136/3615).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 441p of this title](/us/usc/t50/s441p) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (g)(7)(A). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) substituted “place” for “places”.

2015—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–113, § 712(1)(B)](/us/pl/114/113/s712/1/B), substituted “certain minority-serving” for “historically black” in heading.

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 114–113, § 712(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/113/s712/1/A), substituted “historically black colleges and universities, Predominantly Black Institutions, Hispanic-serving institutions, and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions” for “historically black colleges and universities and Predominantly Black Institutions”.

Subsec. (g)(5) to (7). [Pub. L. 114–113, § 712(2)](/us/pl/114/113/s712/2), added pars. (5) and (6) and redesignated former par. (5) as (7).

2014—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 113–293, § 306(1)](/us/pl/113/293/s306/1), inserted “and Predominantly Black Institutions” after “universities”.

Subsec. (g)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 113–293, § 306(2)](/us/pl/113/293/s306/2), added par. (4) and redesignated former par. (4) as (5).

2011—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 112–18, § 304(1)](/us/pl/112/18/s304/1), substituted “subsections (b) and (c)” for “subsection (b)”.

Subsecs. (c) to (f). [Pub. L. 112–18, § 304(2)](/us/pl/112/18/s304/2), (3), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsecs. (c) to (e) as (d) to (f), respectively. Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 112–18, § 304(2)](/us/pl/112/18/s304/2), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g).

Subsec. (g)(2) to (4). [Pub. L. 112–18, § 304(4)](/us/pl/112/18/s304/4), added pars. (2) and (4) and redesignated former par. (2) as (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Findings Regarding Improvement of Equality of Employment Opportunities in the Intelligence Community

[Pub. L. 108–177, title III, § 319](/us/pl/108/177/tIII/s319), Dec. 13, 2003, [117 Stat. 2614](/us/stat/117/2614), as amended by [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(g)(3)(A)(iv)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/g/3/A/iv), (B), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3692](/us/stat/118/3692); [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 313(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s313/b/1/A), (3), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2666](/us/stat/124/2666), provided that: “Congress makes the following findings: “(1) It is the recommendation of the Joint Inquiry of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001, that the Intelligence Community should enhance recruitment of a more ethnically and culturally diverse workforce and devise a strategy to capitalize upon the unique cultural and linguistic capabilities of first generation Americans. “(2) The Intelligence Community could greatly benefit from an increased number of employees who are proficient in foreign languages and knowledgeable of world cultures, especially in foreign languages that are critical to the national security interests of the United States. Particular emphasis should be given to the recruitment of United States citizens whose linguistic capabilities are acutely required for the improvement of the overall intelligence collection and analysis effort of the United States Government. “(3) The Intelligence Community has a significantly lower percentage of women and minorities than the total workforce of the Federal government and the total civilian labor force. “(4) Women and minorities continue to be under-represented in senior grade levels, and in core mission areas, of the intelligence community.”
