---
title: "§ 3352e. Periodic report on positions in the intelligence community that can be conducted without access to classified information, networks, or facilities"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3352e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3352e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVI, § 6610](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVI/s6610), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2218](/us/stat/133/2218); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title VIII, § 801](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tVIII/s801), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 1011](/us/stat/136/1011).)"
---
# § 3352e. Periodic report on positions in the intelligence community that can be conducted without access to classified information, networks, or facilities

##### § 3352e. Periodic report on positions in the intelligence community that can be conducted without access to classified information, networks, or facilities

Not later than 180 days after December 20, 2019, and biennially thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report that reviews the intelligence community for which positions can be conducted without access to classified information, networks, or facilities, or may only require a security clearance at the secret level. Such report shall take into account the potential effect of maintaining continuity of operations during a covered national emergency (as defined by [section 3316b of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3316b)) and the assessed needs of the intelligence community to maintain such continuity of operations.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXVI, § 6610](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXVI/s6610), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2218](/us/stat/133/2218); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title VIII, § 801](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tVIII/s801), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 1011](/us/stat/136/1011).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) substituted “December 20, 2019, and biennially thereafter,” for “December 20, 2019, and not less frequently than once every 5 years thereafter,” and inserted at end “Such report shall take into account the potential effect of maintaining continuity of operations during a covered national emergency (as defined by [section 3316b of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3316b)) and the assessed needs of the intelligence community to maintain such continuity of operations.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “congressional intelligence committees” and “intelligence community”, referred to in text, see [section 5003 of div. E of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/dE/s5003), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
