---
title: "§ 8014. Expansion of existing mechanisms to combat IUU fishing"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8014"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8014"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXV, § 3544](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXV/s3544), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2003](/us/stat/133/2003).)"
---
# § 8014. Expansion of existing mechanisms to combat IUU fishing

##### § 8014. Expansion of existing mechanisms to combat IUU fishing

(a) Mechanisms to combat IUU fishing The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not operating as a service in the Department of the Navy, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, and the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies shall assess opportunities to combat IUU fishing by expanding, as appropriate, the use of the following mechanisms:

(1) Including counter-IUU fishing in existing shiprider agreements in which the United States is a party.

(2) Entering into shiprider agreements that include counter-IUU fishing with priority flag states and countries in priority regions with which the United States does not already have such an agreement.

(3) Including counter-IUU fishing as part of the mission of the Combined Maritime Forces.

(4) Including counter-IUU fishing exercises in the annual at-sea exercises conducted by the Department of Defense, in coordination with the United States Coast Guard.

(5) Creating partnerships similar to the Oceania Maritime Security Initiative and the Africa Maritime Law Enforcement Partnership in other priority regions.

(b) Information sharing The Director of National Intelligence, in conjunction with other agencies, as appropriate, shall develop an enterprise approach to appropriately share information and data within the United States Government or with other countries or nongovernmental organizations, or the private sector, as appropriate, on IUU fishing and other connected transnational organized illegal activity occurring in priority regions and elsewhere, including big data analytics and machine learning.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXV, § 3544](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXV/s3544), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2003](/us/stat/133/2003).)*
