---
title: "§ 5725. Administrative matters"
identifier: "USC-T16-S5725"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section5725"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–450, title II, § 206](/us/pl/106/450/tII/s206), Nov. 7, 2000, [114 Stat. 1943](/us/stat/114/1943).)"
---
# § 5725. Administrative matters

##### § 5725. Administrative matters

(a) Compensation Panel members and alternate Panel members who are not State or Federal employees shall receive compensation at the daily rate of GS–15 of the General Schedule when engaged in the actual performance of duties.

(b) Travel and other necessary expenses Travel and other necessary expenses shall be paid by the Secretary of the Interior for all Panel members, alternate Panel members, and members of any advisory committee established under [section 5722 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s5722) when engaged in the actual performance of duties.

(c) Treatment as Federal employees Except for officials of the United States Government, all Panel members, alternate Panel members, and members of any advisory committee established under [section 5722 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s5722) shall not be considered to be Federal employees while engaged in the actual performance of duties, except for the purposes of injury compensation or tort claims liability as provided in chapter 81 of title 5 and chapter 71 11 So in original. Probably should be “171”. of title 28.

*([Pub. L. 106–450, title II, § 206](/us/pl/106/450/tII/s206), Nov. 7, 2000, [114 Stat. 1943](/us/stat/114/1943).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

GS–15 of the General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (a), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.
