---
title: "§ 101112. Board"
identifier: "USC-T54-S101112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section101112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3120](/us/stat/128/3120); [Pub. L. 114–289, title IV, § 401(1)](/us/pl/114/289/tIV/s401/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/130/1488).)"
---
# § 101112. Board

##### § 101112. Board

(a) Membership.— The National Park Foundation shall consist of a Board having as members no fewer than six private citizens of the United States appointed by the Secretary. The Secretary and the Director shall be non-voting members of the Board, ex officio.

(b) Term of Office and Vacancies.— The term of the private citizen members of the Board is 6 years. If a successor is chosen to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of a term, the successor shall be chosen only for the remainder of that term.

(c) Chairman.— The Chairman shall be elected by the Board from its members for a 2-year term.

(d) Board Membership Not an Office.— Membership on the Board shall not be an office within the meaning of the statutes of the United States.

(e) Quorum.— A majority of the members of the Board serving at any time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

(f) Seal.— The National Park Foundation shall have an official seal, which shall be judicially noticed.

(g) Meetings.— The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairman and there shall be at least one meeting each year.

(h) Compensation and Reimbursement.— No compensation shall be paid to the members of the Board for their services as members, but they shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary traveling and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members out of National Park Foundation funds available to the Board for those purposes.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3120](/us/stat/128/3120); [Pub. L. 114–289, title IV, § 401(1)](/us/pl/114/289/tIV/s401/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/130/1488).)*

In this section, the text of [16 U.S.C. 19f](/us/usc/t16/s19f) (2d and last sentences in last sentences) is omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (a), the words “ex officio” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), the words “whose initial terms shall be staggered to assure continuity of administration. Thereafter” are omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 101112 | 16 U.S.C. 19f. | Pub. L. 90–209, § 2, Dec. 18, 1967, 81 Stat. 656. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–289, § 401(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/289/s401/1/A), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The National Park Foundation shall consist of a Board having as members the Secretary, the Director, and no fewer than 6 private citizens of the United States appointed by the Secretary.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–289, § 401(1)(B)](/us/pl/114/289/s401/1/B), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Board and the Director shall be the Secretary of the Board.”
