---
title: "§ 901. Service flag and service lapel button"
identifier: "USC-T36-S901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/112/1267).)"
---
# § 901. Service flag and service lapel button

##### § 901. Service flag and service lapel button

(a) Individuals Entitled To Display Service Flag.— A service flag approved by the Secretary of Defense may be displayed in a window of the place of residence of individuals who are members of the immediate family of an individual serving in the Armed Forces of the United States during any period of war or hostilities in which the Armed Forces of the United States are engaged.

(b) Individuals Entitled To Display Service Lapel Button.— A service lapel button approved by the Secretary may be worn by members of the immediate family of an individual serving in the Armed Forces of the United States during any period of war or hostilities in which the Armed Forces of the United States are engaged.

(c) License To Manufacture and Sell Service Flags and Service Lapel Buttons.— Any person may apply to the Secretary for a license to manufacture and sell the approved service flag, or the approved service lapel button, or both. Any person that manufactures a service flag or service lapel button without having first obtained a license, or otherwise violates this section is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $1,000.

(d) Regulations.— The Secretary may prescribe regulations necessary to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/112/1267).)*

In subsection (c), the text of 36:181 (1st sentence) is omitted as executed. The word “Thereafter” is omitted as obsolete. The words “is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of” are substituted for “shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 901(a) | 36:179. | Oct. 17, 1942, ch. 615, 56 Stat. 796; May 27, 1953, ch. 70, 67 Stat. 35. |
| 901(b) | 36:180. |  |
| 901(c) | 36:181. |  |
| 901(d) | 36:182. |  |
