---
title: "§ 1365. Annual report of plan administrator"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1365"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1365"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–406, title IV, § 4065](/us/pl/93/406/tIV/s4065), Sept. 2, 1974, [88 Stat. 1032](/us/stat/88/1032); [Pub. L. 96–364, title I, § 106](/us/pl/96/364/tI/s106), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/94/1266).)"
---
# § 1365. Annual report of plan administrator

##### § 1365. Annual report of plan administrator

(1) a copy of each notification required under [section 1363 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1363) with respect to such year,

(2) a statement disclosing whether any reportable event (described in section 1343(b) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title) occurred during the plan year except to the extent the corporation waives such requirement, and

(3) in the case of a multiemployer plan, information with respect to such plan which the corporation determines is necessary for the enforcement of subtitle E and requires by regulation, which may include—

(A) a statement certified by the plan’s enrolled actuary of—

(i) the value of all vested benefits under the plan as of the end of the plan year, and

(ii) the value of the plan’s assets as of the end of the plan year;

(B) a statement certified by the plan sponsor of each claim for outstanding withdrawal liability (within the meaning of [section 1301(a)(12) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1301/a/12)) and its value as of the end of that plan year and as of the end of the preceding plan year; and

(C) the number of employers having an obligation to contribute to the plan and the number of employers required to make withdrawal liability payments.

*([Pub. L. 93–406, title IV, § 4065](/us/pl/93/406/tIV/s4065), Sept. 2, 1974, [88 Stat. 1032](/us/stat/88/1032); [Pub. L. 96–364, title I, § 106](/us/pl/96/364/tI/s106), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/94/1266).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1343(b) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1343/b), referred to in par. (2), was redesignated [section 1343(c) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1343/c) and a new section 1343(b) was added by [Pub. L. 103–465, title VII, § 771(b)](/us/pl/103/465/tVII/s771/b), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 5042](/us/stat/108/5042).

#### Amendments

1980—[Pub. L. 96–364](/us/pl/96/364) inserted provisions in par. (2) respecting waiver by corporation and added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–364](/us/pl/96/364) effective Sept. 26, 1980, except as specifically provided, see [section 1461(e) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1461/e).
