---
title: "§ 2242. Foreign offices of the Food and Drug Administration"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2242"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2242"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–353, title III, § 308](/us/pl/111/353/tIII/s308), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3966](/us/stat/124/3966).)"
---
# § 2242. Foreign offices of the Food and Drug Administration

##### § 2242. Foreign offices of the Food and Drug Administration

(a) In general The Secretary shall establish offices of the Food and Drug Administration in foreign countries selected by the Secretary, to provide assistance to the appropriate governmental entities of such countries with respect to measures to provide for the safety of articles of food and other products regulated by the Food and Drug Administration exported by such country to the United States, including by directly conducting risk-based inspections of such articles and supporting such inspections by such governmental entity.

(b) Consultation In establishing the foreign offices described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the United States Trade Representative.

(c) Report Not later than October 1, 2011, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the basis for the selection by the Secretary of the foreign countries in which the Secretary established offices, the progress which such offices have made with respect to assisting the governments of such countries in providing for the safety of articles of food and other products regulated by the Food and Drug Administration exported to the United States, and the plans of the Secretary for establishing additional foreign offices of the Food and Drug Administration, as appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 111–353, title III, § 308](/us/pl/111/353/tIII/s308), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3966](/us/stat/124/3966).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Secretary, referred to in text, probably means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
