---
title: "§ 13472. High efficiency heat engines"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13472"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13472"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXI, § 2112](/us/pl/102/486/tXXI/s2112), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3072](/us/stat/106/3072).)"
---
# § 13472. High efficiency heat engines

##### § 13472. High efficiency heat engines

(a) Program direction The Secretary shall conduct a 5-year program, in accordance with sections 13541 and 13542 of this title, to improve the efficiency of heat engines. Such program shall—

(1) include field demonstrations of sufficient scale and number so as to demonstrate technical and economic feasibility;

(2) incorporate materials that increase engine efficiency; and

(3) cover advanced engine designs for electric and industrial power generation for a range of small-, mid-, and large-scale applications, including—

(A) mechanically recuperated gas turbines;

(B) intercooled gas turbines with steam injection or recuperation;

(C) gas turbines utilizing reformed fuels or hydrogen; and

(D) high efficiency, simple cycle gas turbines.

(b) Program goal The goal of the program established under subsection (a) shall be to develop heat engines that can achieve over 50 percent efficiency in the mid-term.

(c) Program plan Within 180 days after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Congress a 5-year program plan, to be included in the plan required under [section 13451(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13451/c), to guide the activities under this section. In preparing the program plan, the Secretary shall consult with appropriate representatives of industry, institutions of higher education, Federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and national laboratories, and professional and technical societies.

(d) Proposals Within 1 year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall solicit proposals for conducting activities under this section.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this section such sums as may be necessary to be derived from sums authorized under [section 13451(e) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13451/e).

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXI, § 2112](/us/pl/102/486/tXXI/s2112), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3072](/us/stat/106/3072).)*
