---
title: "§ 7276g. Western Area Power Administration; deposit and availability of funds related to Falcon and Amistad Dams"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7276g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7276g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–85, title III](/us/pl/111/85/tIII), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2871](/us/stat/123/2871).)"
---
# § 7276g. Western Area Power Administration; deposit and availability of funds related to Falcon and Amistad Dams

##### § 7276g. Western Area Power Administration; deposit and availability of funds related to Falcon and Amistad Dams

Notwithstanding the provisions of [section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954](/us/act/1954-06-18/s2) ([68 Stat. 255](/us/stat/68/255)) as amended, and [section 3302 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3302), all funds collected by the Western Area Power Administration from the sale of power and related services from the Falcon and Amistad Dams that are applicable to the repayment of the annual expenses of the hydroelectric facilities of these Dams and associated Western Area Power Administration activities in this and subsequent fiscal years shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting collections for the sole purpose of funding such expenses, with such funds remaining available until expended: *Provided further*, That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred.

*([Pub. L. 111–85, title III](/us/pl/111/85/tIII), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2871](/us/stat/123/2871).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954](/us/act/1954-06-18/s2) ([68 Stat. 255](/us/stat/68/255)), referred to in text, probably means section 2 of [act June 18, 1954, ch. 310](/us/act/1954-06-18/ch310), [68 Stat. 256](/us/stat/68/256), which is not classified to the Code.

“This account” and “this appropriation”, referred to in text, mean funds appropriated under the heading “Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund” of title III of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, [Pub. L. 111–85](/us/pl/111/85).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
