---
title: "§ 2615. Prohibited acts"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2615"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2615"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–3, title I, § 105](/us/pl/103/3/tI/s105), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 14](/us/stat/107/14).)"
---
# § 2615. Prohibited acts

##### § 2615. Prohibited acts

(a) Interference with rights

(1) Exercise of rights It shall be unlawful for any employer to interfere with, restrain, or deny the exercise of or the attempt to exercise, any right provided under this subchapter.

(2) Discrimination It shall be unlawful for any employer to discharge or in any other manner discriminate against any individual for opposing any practice made unlawful by this subchapter.

(b) Interference with proceedings or inquiries It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or in any other manner discriminate against any individual because such individual—

(1) has filed any charge, or has instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding, under or related to this subchapter;

(2) has given, or is about to give, any information in connection with any inquiry or proceeding relating to any right provided under this subchapter; or

(3) has testified, or is about to testify, in any inquiry or proceeding relating to any right provided under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 103–3, title I, § 105](/us/pl/103/3/tI/s105), Feb. 5, 1993, [107 Stat. 14](/us/stat/107/14).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 6 months after Feb. 5, 1993, except that, in the case of collective bargaining agreements in effect on that effective date, section applicable on the earlier of (1) the date of termination of such agreement, or (2) the date that occurs 12 months after Feb. 5, 1993, see [section 405(b) of Pub. L. 103–3](/us/pl/103/3/s405/b), set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2601).
