---
title: "§ 713. Journals of Houses of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T44-S713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1249](/us/stat/82/1249); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 158](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s158), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 47](/us/stat/96/47).)"
---
# § 713. Journals of Houses of Congress

##### § 713. Journals of Houses of Congress

There shall be printed of the Journals of the Senate and House of Representatives eight hundred and twenty copies, which shall be distributed as follows:

- to the Senate document room, ninety copies for distribution to Senators, and twenty-five additional copies;

- to the Senate library, ten copies;

- to the House document room, three hundred and sixty copies for distribution to Members, and twenty-five additional copies;

- to the Department of State, four copies;

- to the Superintendent of Documents, one hundred and forty-four copies to be distributed to three libraries in each of the States to be designated by the Superintendent of Documents; and

- to the Library of the House of Representatives, ten copies.

The remaining number of the Journals of the Senate and House of Representatives, consisting of twenty-five copies, shall be furnished to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives, respectively, as the necessities of their respective offices require, as rapidly as signatures are completed for distribution.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1249](/us/stat/82/1249); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 158](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s158), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 47](/us/stat/96/47).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 147 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 57](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s57), [28 Stat. 609](/us/stat/28/609); Mar. 2, 1901, No. 16, §§ 1, 2, [31 Stat. 1464](/us/stat/31/1464)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1982—[Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) substituted “eight hundred and twenty” for “eight hundred and twenty-two” as total number of Journals printed and struck out provision that directed that two copies be distributed to the Court of Claims.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) effective Oct. 1, 1982, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164/s402), set out as a note under [section 171 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s171), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
