---
title: "§ 70905. National officers"
identifier: "USC-T36-S70905"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section70905"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1357](/us/stat/112/1357); [Pub. L. 116–7, § 6](/us/pl/116/7/s6), Feb. 21, 2019, [133 Stat. 480](/us/stat/133/480).)"
---
# § 70905. National officers

##### § 70905. National officers

(a) Composition.— There shall be not less than 6 national student officers of the FFA, including a student president, 4 student vice presidents (each representing regions as provided in the constitution or bylaws of the corporation), and a student secretary.

(b) Election.— The national officers of the corporation shall be elected annually by a majority vote of the delegates assembled in the annual national convention from among qualified members of the corporation.

(c) Vote at National Convention.— Each qualified delegate has one vote at the annual national convention.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1357](/us/stat/112/1357); [Pub. L. 116–7, § 6](/us/pl/116/7/s6), Feb. 21, 2019, [133 Stat. 480](/us/stat/133/480).)*

In subsection (c), the words “Secretary of Education” and “Department of Education” are substituted for “Chief of the Agricultural Education Service, Office of Education, Federal Security Agency” and “that service”, respectively, in [section 7(c) of the Act of August 30, 1950](/us/act/1950-08-30/s7/c) (ch. 823, [64 Stat. 565](/us/stat/64/565)), because of sections 5 and 8 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1953 (5 App. U.S.C.) and 20:3441 and 3507. In clause (3), the reference to the Vocational Education Act of 1946 (ch. 541, [49 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/49/1488)) is omitted because that Act was repealed by [section 103 of the Act of October 16, 1968](/us/act/1968-10-16/s103) ([Public Law 90–576](/us/pl/90/576), [82 Stat. 1091](/us/stat/82/1091)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 70905 | 36:277. | Aug. 30, 1950, ch. 823, § 7, 64 Stat. 565. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–7, § 6(1)](/us/pl/116/7/s6/1), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The national officers of the corporation are a student president, four student vice presidents (one from each of four regions of the United States established in the bylaws for purposes of administration of the corporation), a student secretary, an executive secretary, a treasurer, and a national advisor.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–7, § 6(4)](/us/pl/116/7/s6/4), struck out “, except that—” in introductory provisions and pars. (1) to (3) which related to the national advisor, executive secretary, and treasurer, respectively.

[Pub. L. 116–7, § 6(2)](/us/pl/116/7/s6/2), (3), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and struck out former subsec. (b) which read as follows: “Board of Student Officers.—The national student officers of the corporation comprise a board of student officers. The board of student officers shall advise and make recommendations to the board of directors about the activities and business of the corporation.”

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 116–7, § 6(3)](/us/pl/116/7/s6/3), redesignated subsec. (d) as (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (b).
