---
title: "§ 5549. House Intern Resource Office"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5549"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5549"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. I, title I, § 113](/us/pl/117/328/dI/tI/s113), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4922](/us/stat/136/4922).)"
---
# § 5549. House Intern Resource Office

##### § 5549. House Intern Resource Office

(a) Establishment; Coordinator

(1) Establishment; Coordinator There is established in the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives the House Intern Resource Office (hereinafter referred to as the “Office”).

(2) Appointment The Office shall be headed by the House Intern Resource Coordinator (hereinafter referred to as the “Coordinator”), who shall be employed by the Chief Administrative Officer in consultation with the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration.

(b) Duties In consultation with the Office of Diversity and Inclusion and such other offices as the Coordinator considers appropriate, the Office shall—

(1) provide support services, such as accommodations, training, and professional development, to interns of offices of the House of Representatives;

(2) serve as a center for resources and best practices for the recruitment, hiring, training, and use of interns by offices of the House of Representatives; and

(3) gather demographic and other data about interns of offices of the House of Representatives.

(c) Addressing inequities in access to internships In carrying out its duties, the Office shall consider inequities in access to internships in offices of the House of Representatives, and shall consider the viability of establishing an intern stipend program for interns from underrepresented backgrounds, including those who attend Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribal Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), and other Minority Serving Institutions described in [section 1067q(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1067q/a).

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2023 and each succeeding fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

(e) Effective date This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2023 and each succeeding fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. I, title I, § 113](/us/pl/117/328/dI/tI/s113), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4922](/us/stat/136/4922).)*
