---
title: "§ 5392. Prohibition of circumvention and prevention of conflicts of interest"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5392"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5392"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title II, § 212](/us/pl/111/203/tII/s212), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1516](/us/stat/124/1516).)"
---
# § 5392. Prohibition of circumvention and prevention of conflicts of interest

##### § 5392. Prohibition of circumvention and prevention of conflicts of interest

(a) No other funding Funds for the orderly liquidation of any covered financial company under this subchapter shall only be provided as specified under this subchapter.

(b) Limit on governmental actions No governmental entity may take any action to circumvent the purposes of this subchapter.

(c) Conflict of interest In the event that the Corporation is appointed receiver for more than 1 covered financial company or is appointed receiver for a covered financial company and receiver for any insured depository institution that is an affiliate of such covered financial company, the Corporation shall take appropriate action, as necessary to avoid any conflicts of interest that may arise in connection with multiple receiverships.

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title II, § 212](/us/pl/111/203/tII/s212), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1516](/us/stat/124/1516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this title”, meaning title II of [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/124/1442), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s4), set out as a note under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301).
