---
title: "§ 3932. Creation of corporations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3932"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3932"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–448, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/90/448/tIX/s902), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 547](/us/stat/82/547).)"
---
# § 3932. Creation of corporations

##### § 3932. Creation of corporations

(a) Authorization There is hereby authorized to be created a private corporation for profit (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the “corporation”). The corporation will not be an agency or establishment of the United States Government. The corporation shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and, to the extent consistent with this chapter, to the District of Columbia Business Corporation Act.

(b) Creation of additional corporations Whenever the President finds it in the national interest to do so, he may cause the creation of an additional corporation or additional corporations to carry out the purposes of this chapter. All the provisions of this chapter shall thereupon become applicable to each such corporation, and to the limited partnership formed by it pursuant to [section 3937 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3937).

(c) Creation of corporations and organization of other partnerships, joint ventures, or associations by private persons Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to preclude private persons from creating other corporations and organizing other partnerships, joint ventures, or associations for the purposes set forth in this chapter as the purposes of the corporation and the partnership described in [section 3937 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3937).

*([Pub. L. 90–448, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/90/448/tIX/s902), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 547](/us/stat/82/547).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The District of Columbia Business Corporation Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act June 8, 1954, ch. 269](/us/act/1954-06-08/ch269), [68 Stat. 179](/us/stat/68/179), which is not classified to the Code.
