---
title: "§ 1157. Extraordinary relief"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1157"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1157"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8221(a)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4657](/us/stat/134/4657).)"
---
# § 1157. Extraordinary relief

##### § 1157. Extraordinary relief

(a) In General.— With respect to any prime contracting entity receiving extraordinary relief pursuant to the Act entitled “An Act to authorize the making, amendment, and modification of contracts to facilitate the national defense”, approved August 28, 1958 ([Public Law 85–804](/us/pl/85/804); [50 U.S.C. 1432](/us/usc/t50/s1432) et seq.) for a major acquisition, the Secretary shall not consider any further request by the prime contracting entity for extraordinary relief under such Act for such major acquisition.

(b) Inapplicability to Subcontractors.— The limitation under subsection (a) shall not apply to subcontractors of a prime contracting entity.

(c) Quarterly Report.— Not less frequently than quarterly during each fiscal year in which extraordinary relief is approved or provided to an entity under the Act referred to in subsection (a) for the acquisition of Offshore Patrol Cutters, the Commandant shall provide to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that describes in detail such relief and the compliance of the entity with the oversight measures required as a condition of receiving such relief.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8221(a)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4657](/us/stat/134/4657).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

An Act to authorize the making, amendment, and modification of contracts to facilitate the national defense, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 85–804](/us/pl/85/804), Aug. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 972](/us/stat/72/972), which is classified generally to chapter 29 (§ 1431 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
