---
title: "§ 1012. Payments to counties"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1012"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1012"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([July 22, 1937, ch. 517](/us/act/1937-07-22/ch517), title III, § 33, [50 Stat. 526](/us/stat/50/526).)"
---
# § 1012. Payments to counties

##### § 1012. Payments to counties

As soon as practicable after the end of each calendar year, the Secretary shall pay to the county in which any land is held by the Secretary under this subchapter, 25 per centum of the net revenues received by the Secretary from the use of the land during such year. In case the land is situated in more than one county, the amount to be paid shall be divided equitably among the respective counties. Payments to counties under this section shall be made on the condition that they are used for school or road purposes, or both. This section shall not be construed to apply to amounts received from the sale of land.

*([July 22, 1937, ch. 517](/us/act/1937-07-22/ch517), title III, § 33, [50 Stat. 526](/us/stat/50/526).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Repeal; Savings Provision

This section is section 33 of act July 22, 1937. Section is being treated as repealed by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2793](/us/stat/90/2793), effective on and after Oct. 21, 1976, insofar as applicable to the issuance of rights-of-way over, upon, under, and through the public lands and lands in the National Forest System. The table of repealed laws contained in [section 706(a) of Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579/s706/a) did not list section 33 of act July 22, 1937, but did list [section 1012 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s1012). Such repeal not to be construed as terminating any valid lease, permit, patent, etc., existing on Oct. 21, 1976, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579/s701), set out as a note under [section 1701 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1701), Public Lands.

#### Existing Rights-of-Way

Provisions of [section 706(a) of Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579/s706/a), except as pertaining to rights-of-way, not to be construed as affecting the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture under this section, see note set out under [section 1701 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1701), Public Lands.
