---
title: "§ 2996k. Coordination"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2996k"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2996k"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–452, title X, § 1012](/us/pl/88/452/tX/s1012), as added [Pub. L. 93–355, § 2](/us/pl/93/355/s2), July 25, 1974, [88 Stat. 388](/us/stat/88/388).)"
---
# § 2996k. Coordination

##### § 2996k. Coordination

The President may direct that appropriate support functions of the Federal Government may be made available to the Corporation in carrying out its activities under this subchapter, to the extent not inconsistent with other applicable law.

*([Pub. L. 88–452, title X, § 1012](/us/pl/88/452/tX/s1012), as added [Pub. L. 93–355, § 2](/us/pl/93/355/s2), July 25, 1974, [88 Stat. 388](/us/stat/88/388).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 11874. Delegation of Functions to Director of Office of Management and Budget

Ex. Ord. No. 11874 eff. July 25, 1975, 40 F.R. 31737, provided:

By virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 1012 of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as amended by the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974 ([88 Stat. 388](/us/stat/88/388), [42 U.S.C. 2996k](/us/usc/t42/s2996k)), and [Section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301) of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget is hereby designated and empowered to exercise the authority vested in the President by said Section 1012 of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as amended [this section], to direct that appropriate support functions of the Federal Government may be made available to the Legal Services Corporation in carrying out its activities, to the extent not inconsistent with other applicable law. Such functions shall be provided under terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by the Legal Services Corporation and the Federal agencies involved.
