---
title: "§ 710. Partial invalidity; short title"
identifier: "USC-T16-S710"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section710"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1918, ch. 128](/us/act/1918-07-03/ch128), §§ 1, 10, [40 Stat. 755](/us/stat/40/755), 757.)"
---
# § 710. Partial invalidity; short title

##### § 710. Partial invalidity; short title

If any clause, sentence, paragraph, or part of this subchapter, which shall be known by the short title of the “Migratory Bird Treaty Act”, shall, for any reason, be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph, or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered.

*([July 3, 1918, ch. 128](/us/act/1918-07-03/ch128), §§ 1, 10, [40 Stat. 755](/us/stat/40/755), 757.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The provisions of this section relating to short title are from section 1 of act July 3, 1918, and the provisions relating to severability are from section 10 of that act.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2004 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–447, div. E, title I, § 143(a)](/us/pl/108/447/dE/tI/s143/a), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3071](/us/stat/118/3071), provided that: “This section [amending [section 703 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s703) and enacting provisions set out as notes under [section 703 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s703)] may be cited as the ‘Migratory Bird Treaty Reform Act of 2004’.”

#### Short Title of 1998 Amendment

[Pub. L. 105–312, title I, § 101](/us/pl/105/312/tI/s101), Oct. 30, 1998, [112 Stat. 2956](/us/stat/112/2956), provided that: “This title [amending sections 704 and 707 of this title and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 704 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s704)] may be cited as the ‘Migratory Bird Treaty Reform Act of 1998’.”
