---
title: "§ 3906. Tribal demonstration project"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–399, § 7](/us/pl/103/399/s7), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4167](/us/stat/108/4167).)"
---
# § 3906. Tribal demonstration project

##### § 3906. Tribal demonstration project

(a) In general The Director may establish and carry out a program providing for demonstration projects involving open dumps on Indian land or Alaska Native land. It shall be the purpose of such projects to determine if there are unique cost factors involved in the cleanup and maintenance of open dumps on such land, and the extent to which advanced closure planning is necessary. Under the program, the Director is authorized to select no less than three Indian tribal governments or Alaska Native entities to participate in such demonstration projects.

(b) Criteria Criteria established by the Director for the selection and participation of an Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity in the demonstration project shall provide that in order to be eligible to participate, an Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity must—

(1) have one or more existing open dumps on Indian lands or Alaska Native lands which are under its authority;

(2) have developed a comprehensive solid waste management plan for such lands; and

(3) have developed a closure and postclosure maintenance plan for each dump located on such lands.

(c) Duration of funding for project No demonstration project shall be funded for more than three fiscal years.

*([Pub. L. 103–399, § 7](/us/pl/103/399/s7), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4167](/us/stat/108/4167).)*
