---
title: "§ 307108. Privately donated funds"
identifier: "USC-T54-S307108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section307108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3232](/us/stat/128/3232).)"
---
# § 307108. Privately donated funds

##### § 307108. Privately donated funds

(a) Projects for Which Funds May Be Used.— In furtherance of the purposes of this division, the Secretary may accept the donation of funds that may be expended by the Secretary for projects to acquire, restore, preserve, or recover data from any property included on the National Register, as long as the project is owned by a State, any unit of local government, or any nonprofit entity.

(b) Consideration of Factors Respecting Expenditure of Funds.—

(1) In general.— In expending the funds, the Secretary shall give due consideration to—

(A) the national significance of the project;

(B) its historical value to the community;

(C) the imminence of its destruction or loss; and

(D) the expressed intentions of the donor.

(2) Funds available without regard to matching requirements.— Funds expended under this subsection shall be made available without regard to the matching requirements established by sections 302901 and 302902(b) of this title, but the recipient of the funds shall be permitted to utilize them to match any grants from the Historic Preservation Fund.

(c) Transfer of Unobligated Funds.— The Secretary may transfer unobligated funds previously donated to the Secretary for the purposes of the Service, with the consent of the donor, and any funds so transferred shall be used or expended in accordance with this division.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3232](/us/stat/128/3232).)*

In subsection (a), the word “included” is substituted for “listed” for consistency in the revised subtitle.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 307108 | 16 U.S.C. 470h–1. | Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 109, as added Pub. L. 96–244, § 1, May 19, 1980, 94 Stat. 346. |
