---
title: "§ 4361. Supervision of public business of Gallaudet University"
identifier: "USC-T20-S4361"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section4361"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 441; [Mar. 4, 1911, ch. 285, § 1](/us/act/1911-03-04/ch285/s1), [36 Stat. 1422](/us/stat/36/1422); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. IV, § 11, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2421, [54 Stat. 1234](/us/stat/54/1234); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631); [June 18, 1954, ch. 324, § 1](/us/act/1954-06-18/ch324/s1), [68 Stat. 265](/us/stat/68/265); Oct. 17, 1979, [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(2)(M)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/2/M), title V, § 507, [93 S"
---
# § 4361. Supervision of public business of Gallaudet University

##### § 4361. Supervision of public business of Gallaudet University

The Secretary of Education is charged with the supervision of public business relating to Gallaudet University.

*(R.S. § 441; [Mar. 4, 1911, ch. 285, § 1](/us/act/1911-03-04/ch285/s1), [36 Stat. 1422](/us/stat/36/1422); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. IV, § 11, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2421, [54 Stat. 1234](/us/stat/54/1234); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 1, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631); [June 18, 1954, ch. 324, § 1](/us/act/1954-06-18/ch324/s1), [68 Stat. 265](/us/stat/68/265); Oct. 17, 1979, [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(2)(M)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/2/M), title V, § 507, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692; Aug. 4, 1986, [Pub. L. 99–371, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/99/371/tI/s101/a), [100 Stat. 781](/us/stat/100/781).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 691h of this title](/us/usc/t20/s691h).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Pursuant to [section 101(a) of Pub. L. 99–371](/us/pl/99/371/s101/a), which is classified to [section 4301(a) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s4301/a), “Gallaudet University” was substituted in text for “Gallaudet College” which had been substituted in text for “Columbia Institution for the Deaf” pursuant to section 1 of act June 18, 1954, which was formerly classified to [section 691 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s691). Previously, [act Mar. 4, 1911, ch. 285](/us/act/1911-03-04/ch285), [36 Stat. 1422](/us/stat/36/1422), had redesignated the “Columbia Institution for the Deaf and Dumb” as the “Columbia Institution for the Deaf”.

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Education” substituted in text for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to sections 301(a)(2)(M) and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441(a)(2)(M) and 3507 of this title and which transferred to Secretary of Education functions of Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under laws relating to relationship between Gallaudet College [now Gallaudet University] and Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Federal Security Administrator transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and all agencies of Federal Security Agency transferred to Department of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 5 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Federal Security Agency and office of Administrator abolished by section 8 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953.

Functions of Department of the Interior relating to administration of Columbia Institution for the Deaf transferred to Federal Security Agency to be administered under direction and supervision of Federal Security Administrator by § 11(d) of 1940 Reorg. Plan No. IV, set out in the Appendix to Title 5.
