---
title: "§ 9409. Report on United States citizens detained by Iran"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9409"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9409"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–44, title I, § 110](/us/pl/115/44/tI/s110), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 896](/us/stat/131/896).)"
---
# § 9409. Report on United States citizens detained by Iran

##### § 9409. Report on United States citizens detained by Iran

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after August 2, 2017, and every 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership a report on United States citizens, including United States citizens who are also citizens of other countries, detained by Iran or groups supported by Iran that includes—

(1) information regarding any officials of the Government of Iran involved in any way in the detentions; and

(2) a summary of efforts the United States Government has taken to secure the swift release of those United States citizens.

(b) Form of report The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

(c) Appropriate congressional committees and leadership defined In this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees and leadership” means—

(1) the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the majority and minority leaders of the Senate; and

(2) the Committee on Ways and Means, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Speaker, the majority leader, and the minority leader of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 115–44, title I, § 110](/us/pl/115/44/tI/s110), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 896](/us/stat/131/896).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section to the Secretary of State, see section 1(a) of Memorandum of President of the United States, Oct. 11, 2017, 82 F.R. 50051, set out in a note under [section 9403 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9403).
