---
title: "§ 778. Establishment of experiment stations; purpose of research"
identifier: "USC-T16-S778"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section778"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–342, § 1](/us/pl/85/342/s1), Mar. 15, 1958, [72 Stat. 35](/us/stat/72/35); [Pub. L. 104–127, title VIII, § 889(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/127/tVIII/s889/a/1), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1180](/us/stat/110/1180).)"
---
# § 778. Establishment of experiment stations; purpose of research

##### § 778. Establishment of experiment stations; purpose of research

(1) to determine species of fishes most suitable for culture on a commercial basis in shallow reservoirs and flooded rice lands;

(2) to determine methods for production of fingerling fishes for stocking in commercial reservoirs;

(3) to develop methods for the control of parasites and diseases of brood fishes and of fingerlings prior to stocking;

(4) to develop economical methods for raising the more desirable species of fishes to a marketable size;

(5) to determine, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, the effects of fish-rice rotations, including crops other than rice commonly grown on rice farms, upon both the fish and other crops; and

(6) to develop suitable methods for harvesting the fish crop and preparing it for marketing, including a study of sport fishing as a means of such harvest.

*([Pub. L. 85–342, § 1](/us/pl/85/342/s1), Mar. 15, 1958, [72 Stat. 35](/us/stat/72/35); [Pub. L. 104–127, title VIII, § 889(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/127/tVIII/s889/a/1), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1180](/us/stat/110/1180).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–127](/us/pl/104/127), in introductory provisions, substituted “Secretary of Agriculture shall” for “Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed to” and “1 or more centers” for “an experiment station or stations” and, in par. (5), substituted “Secretary of the Interior” for “Department of Agriculture”.
