---
title: "§ 2394a. Extortion and illegal payments to officials of foreign countries receiving international security assistance"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2394a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2394a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–329, title VI, § 607](/us/pl/94/329/tVI/s607), June 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 768](/us/stat/90/768).)"
---
# § 2394a. Extortion and illegal payments to officials of foreign countries receiving international security assistance

##### § 2394a. Extortion and illegal payments to officials of foreign countries receiving international security assistance

Within 60 days after receiving information which substantiates that officials of a foreign country receiving international security assistance have (1) received illegal or otherwise improper payments from a United States corporation in return for a contract to purchase defense articles or services from such corporation, or (2) extorted, or attempted to extort, money or other things of value in return for actions by officials of that country that permit a United States citizen or corporation to conduct business in that country, the President shall submit to Congress a report outlining the circumstances of such payment or extortion. The report shall contain a recommendation from the President as to whether the United States should continue a security assistance program for that country.

*([Pub. L. 94–329, title VI, § 607](/us/pl/94/329/tVI/s607), June 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 768](/us/stat/90/768).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424), known as the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, which comprises this chapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
