---
title: "§ 46317. Criminal penalty for pilots operating in air transportation without an airman’s certificate"
identifier: "USC-T49-S46317"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section46317"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–181, title V, § 509(a)](/us/pl/106/181/tV/s509/a), Apr. 5, 2000, [114 Stat. 141](/us/stat/114/141).)"
---
# § 46317. Criminal penalty for pilots operating in air transportation without an airman’s certificate

##### § 46317. Criminal penalty for pilots operating in air transportation without an airman’s certificate

(a) General Criminal Penalty.— An individual shall be fined under title 18 or imprisoned for not more than 3 years, or both, if that individual—

(1) knowingly and willfully serves or attempts to serve in any capacity as an airman operating an aircraft in air transportation without an airman’s certificate authorizing the individual to serve in that capacity; or

(2) knowingly and willfully employs for service or uses in any capacity as an airman to operate an aircraft in air transportation an individual who does not have an airman’s certificate authorizing the individual to serve in that capacity.

(b) Controlled Substance Criminal Penalty.—

(1) Controlled substances defined.— In this subsection, the term “controlled substance” has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 ([21 U.S.C. 802](/us/usc/t21/s802)).

(2) Criminal penalty.— An individual violating subsection (a) shall be fined under title 18 or imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both, if the violation is related to transporting a controlled substance by aircraft or aiding or facilitating a controlled substance violation and that transporting, aiding, or facilitating—

(A) is punishable by death or imprisonment of more than 1 year under a Federal or State law; or

(B) is related to an act punishable by death or imprisonment for more than 1 year under a Federal or State law related to a controlled substance (except a law related to simple possession (as that term is used in section 46306(c)) of a controlled substance).

(3) Terms of imprisonment.— A term of imprisonment imposed under paragraph (2) shall be served in addition to, and not concurrently with, any other term of imprisonment imposed on the individual subject to the imprisonment.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–181, title V, § 509(a)](/us/pl/106/181/tV/s509/a), Apr. 5, 2000, [114 Stat. 141](/us/stat/114/141).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 1999, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 106–181](/us/pl/106/181/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 2000 Amendments note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
