---
title: "§ 1591b. Community facilities or services by local agencies"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1591b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1591b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title I, § 103, [65 Stat. 294](/us/stat/65/294); [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)"
---
# § 1591b. Community facilities or services by local agencies

##### § 1591b. Community facilities or services by local agencies

(a) Certification of necessity for loan no loan shall be made pursuant to subchapter IX of this chapter for the provision of community facilities or equipment therefor required in connection with national defense activities in such area unless the chief executive officer of the appropriate political subdivision certifies, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development finds, that such facilities or equipment could not otherwise be provided when needed;

(b) Certification of necessity for grants or other payments no grant or other payment shall be made pursuant to subchapter IX of this chapter for the provision, or for the operation and maintenance, of community facilities or equipment therefor, or for the provision of community services, required in connection with national defense activities in such area unless the chief executive officer of the appropriate political subdivision certifies, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development finds, that such community facilities or services cannot otherwise be provided when needed, or operated and maintained, as the case may be, without the imposition of an increased excessive tax burden or an unusual or excessive increase in the debt limit of the appropriate local agency; and

(c) Maintenance and operation of facilities no community facilities or services shall be provided, and no community facilities shall be maintained and operated, by the United States directly except where the appropriate local agency is demonstrably unable to provide such facilities and services, or to maintain or operate such community facilities and services adequately with its own personnel, with loans, grants, or payments authorized to be made pursuant to subchapter IX of this chapter.

*([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title I, § 103, [65 Stat. 294](/us/stat/65/294); [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see note set out under [section 1581 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1581).
