---
title: "§ 372. Conspiracy to impede or injure officer"
identifier: "USC-T18-S372"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section372"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 701](/us/stat/62/701); [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title IV, § 4002(d)(1)(D)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tIV/s4002/d/1/D), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1809](/us/stat/116/1809).)"
---
# § 372. Conspiracy to impede or injure officer

##### § 372. Conspiracy to impede or injure officer

If two or more persons in any State, Territory, Possession, or District conspire to prevent, by force, intimidation, or threat, any person from accepting or holding any office, trust, or place of confidence under the United States, or from discharging any duties thereof, or to induce by like means any officer of the United States to leave the place, where his duties as an officer are required to be performed, or to injure him in his person or property on account of his lawful discharge of the duties of his office, or while engaged in the lawful discharge thereof, or to injure his property so as to molest, interrupt, hinder, or impede him in the discharge of his official duties, each of such persons shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than six years, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 701](/us/stat/62/701); [Pub. L. 107–273, div. B, title IV, § 4002(d)(1)(D)](/us/pl/107/273/dB/tIV/s4002/d/1/D), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1809](/us/stat/116/1809).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 54 ([Mar. 4, 1909, ch. 321, § 21](/us/act/1909-03-04/ch321/s21), [35 Stat. 1092](/us/stat/35/1092)).

Scope of section was enlarged to cover all possessions of the United States. When the section was first enacted in 1861 there were no possessions, and hence the use of the words “State or Territory” was sufficient to describe the area then subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. The word “District” was inserted by the codifiers of the 1909 Criminal Code.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—[Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273) substituted “under this title” for “not more than $5,000”.
