---
title: "§§ 8791 to 8793. Omitted"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8791...8793"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8791...8793"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
---
# §§ 8791 to 8793. Omitted

##### §§ 8791 to 8793. Omitted

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Sections 8791 to 8793 were omitted from the Code in view of termination of United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation. See note below.

Section 8791, [Pub. L. 96–294, title I, § 191](/us/pl/96/294/tI/s191), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 681](/us/stat/94/681), related to dates for termination of awards or commitments by Corporation.

Section 8792, [Pub. L. 96–294, title I, § 192](/us/pl/96/294/tI/s192), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 681](/us/stat/94/681), related to termination of Corporation’s affairs.

Section 8793, [Pub. L. 96–294, title I, § 193](/us/pl/96/294/tI/s193), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 681](/us/stat/94/681), transferred Corporation’s powers to Department of the Treasury.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation

[Pub. L. 99–272, title VII](/us/pl/99/272/tVII), subtitle E, Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 143](/us/stat/100/143), as amended by [Pub. L. 101–508, title VI, § 6401](/us/pl/101/508/tVI/s6401), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–319](/us/stat/104/1388-319), provided that: “SEC. 7401. SHORT TITLE.“This subtitle may be cited as the ‘Synthetic Fuels Corporation Act of 1985’. “SEC. 7402. CESSATION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AUTHORITY.“Effective on the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986], the United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation (hereafter in this subtitle referred to as the ‘Corporation’) may not make any legally binding awards or commitments for financial assistance (including any changes in an existing award or commitment) pursuant to the Energy Security Act [[Pub. L. 96–294](/us/pl/96/294); see Short Title note set out under [section 8801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8801)] for synthetic fuel project proposals, except that nothing in this Act [see Tables for classification] shall impair or alter the powers, duties, rights, obligations, privileges, or liabilities of the Corporation, its Board or Chairman, or project sponsors in the performance and completion of the terms and undertakings of a legally binding award or commitment entered into prior to the date of enactment of this Act. “SEC. 7403. TERMINATION OF THE CORPORATION.“(a) Within 60 days of the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986], the Directors of the Corporation shall terminate their duties under the Energy Security Act [[Pub. L. 96–294](/us/pl/96/294); see Short Title note set out under [section 8801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8801)] and be discharged. “(b) Within 120 days of the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986], the Corporation shall terminate, except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, in accordance with subtitle J of part B of title I of the Energy Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 8791](/us/usc/t42/s8791) to 8793]. “SEC. 7404. DUTIES OF SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.“(a) Within 60 days of the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986] (or earlier, in the event of absence of a Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation), the Secretary of the Treasury shall assume the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The Secretary of the Treasury shall have the authority to negotiate and execute agreements modifying an existing contract relating to the production of synthetic crude oil from oil shale, entered into under the Defense Production Act Amendments of 1980 [[Pub. L. 96–294, title I](/us/pl/96/294/tI), part A, see Short Title of 1980 Amendment note set out under [section 4501 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4501), War and National Defense] and subsequently transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury for administration, provided the terms and conditions of any modification(s) are revenue neutral or result in a fiscal savings to the United States Government, and in no event would increase the financial exposure of the United States Government under the contract: *Provided, however*, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall have no authority to increase the total amount of funds originally authorized for the existing contract: *And provided further*, That the Secretary shall have no authority to negotiate and execute any agreement modifying the existing contract if such modification(s) would increase or accelerate the financial support per unit for the synthetic fuel to be produced under the contract. “(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the duties and responsibilities of the Secretary of the Treasury under subtitle J of part B of title I of the Energy Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 8791](/us/usc/t42/s8791) to 8793] or this Act [see Tables for classification] may not be transferred to any other Federal department or agency. “(c) Notwithstanding such termination of the Corporation, the Advisory Committee established under section 123 of the Energy Security Act (42 U.S.C 8719) shall remain in effect to advise the Secretary of the Treasury regarding the administration of any contract or obligation of the Corporation pursuant to subtitle D of part B of title I of such Act [[42 U.S.C. 8731](/us/usc/t42/s8731) to 8740]. “(d) To the extent that the Secretary of the Treasury may be required to take an action under section 131(q) of the Energy Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 8731(q)](/us/usc/t42/s8731/q)] in connection with an award or commitment of financial assistance under such Act [[Pub. L. 96–294](/us/pl/96/294); see Short Title note set out under [section 8801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8801)], the Secretary shall complete such action within 30 days of the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986]. “SEC. 7405. SALARIES AND COMPENSATION RIGHTS.“(a) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall, before February 1, 1986, determine the amount of compensation or benefits which each Director, officer, or employee of the Corporation shall be legally entitled to under any contract as of the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986]. “(b) Effective on the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986], no change in any Director, officer, or employee compensation or benefits shall be allowed or permitted, unless the Director of the Office of Personnel Management agrees that such change is reasonable. “(c) Effective on the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986]—“(1) no officer or employee of the Corporation shall receive a salary in excess of the rate of basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule under title 5 of the United States Code; and “(2) the Corporation shall not waive any requirements in its By-Laws which are necessary for a Director, officer, or employee to qualify for pension or termination benefits under the By-Laws and written personnel policies and procedures in effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986]. “SEC. 7406. REPORT TO THE CONGRESS.“The Corporation shall, within 60 days of the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986], transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and to the Committee on Energy and Commerce and Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives a report—“(1) containing a review of implementation of its Phase I Business Plan dated February 19, 1985; and “(2) fulfilling the requirements of section 126(b)(3) of the Energy Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 8722(b)(3)](/us/usc/t42/s8722/b/3)).”

Similar provisions were contained in [Pub. L. 99–190, § 101(d) [title II, § 201]](/us/pl/99/190/s101/d/tII/s201), Dec. 19, 1985, [99 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/99/1224), 1249.
