---
title: "§ 4402. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T20-S4402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section4402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–498, title XV, § 1503](/us/pl/99/498/tXV/s1503), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1600](/us/stat/100/1600).)"
---
# § 4402. Definitions

##### § 4402. Definitions

(1) The term “Indian art and culture” includes (but is not limited to) the traditional and contemporary expressions of Indian language, history, visual and performing arts, and crafts.

(2) The term “Native Hawaiian art and culture” includes the traditional and contemporary expressions of Native Hawaiian language, history, visual and performing arts, and crafts.

(3) The term “Institute” means the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development established by this chapter.

(4) The term “Indian” means any person who is a member of an Indian tribe.

(5) The term “Indian tribe” means any tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians, including any Alaska Native village (as defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [[43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.]), which is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.

(6) The term “Native Hawaiian” means any descendent of a person who, prior to 1778, was a native of the Hawaiian Islands.

(7) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(8) The term “Board” means the Board of Trustees of the Institute established under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 99–498, title XV, § 1503](/us/pl/99/498/tXV/s1503), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1600](/us/stat/100/1600).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in par. (5), is [Pub. L. 92–203](/us/pl/92/203), Dec. 18, 1971, [85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1601) and Tables.
