---
title: "§ 3305. The American Institute in Taiwan"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–8, § 6](/us/pl/96/8/s6), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 17](/us/stat/93/17).)"
---
# § 3305. The American Institute in Taiwan

##### § 3305. The American Institute in Taiwan

(a) Conduct of programs, transactions, or other relations with respect to Taiwan Programs, transactions, and other relations conducted or carried out by the President or any agency of the United States Government with respect to Taiwan shall, in the manner and to the extent directed by the President, be conducted and carried out by or through—

(1) The American Institute in Taiwan, a nonprofit corporation incorporated under the laws of the District of Columbia, or

(2) such comparable successor nongovernmental entity as the President may designate,(hereafter in this chapter referred to as the “Institute”).

(b) Agreements or transactions relative to Taiwan entered into, performed, and enforced Whenever the President or any agency of the United States Government is authorized or required by or pursuant to the laws of the United States to enter into, perform, enforce, or have in force an agreement or transaction relative to Taiwan, such agreement or transaction shall be entered into, performed, and enforced, in the manner and to the extent directed by the President, by or through the Institute.

(c) Preemption of laws, rules, regulations, or ordi­nances of District of Columbia, States, or political subdivisions of States To the extent that any law, rule, regulation, or ordinance of the District of Columbia, or of any State or political subdivision thereof in which the Institute is incorporated or doing business, impedes or otherwise interferes with the performance of the functions of the Institute pursuant to this chapter, such law, rule, regulation, or ordinance shall be deemed to be preempted by this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 96–8, § 6](/us/pl/96/8/s6), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 17](/us/stat/93/17).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as of January 1, 1979, see [section 18 of Pub. L. 96–8](/us/pl/96/8/s18), set out as a note under [section 3301 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3301).
