---
title: "§ 3003. Congressional approval of United States accession to the Convention"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3003"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3003"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1203](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1203), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/102/1148).)"
---
# § 3003. Congressional approval of United States accession to the Convention

##### § 3003. Congressional approval of United States accession to the Convention

(a) Congressional approval The Congress approves the accession by the United States of America to the Convention.

(b) Acceptance of final legal text of Convention by President The President may accept for the United States the final legal instruments embodying the Convention. The President shall submit a copy of each final instrument to the Congress on the date it becomes available.

(c) Unspecified private remedies not created Neither the entry into force with respect to the United States of the Convention nor the enactment of this chapter may be construed as creating any private right of action or remedy for which provision is not explicitly made under this chapter or under other laws of the United States.

(d) Termination The provisions of [section 2135(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2135/a) do not apply to the Convention.

*([Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1203](/us/pl/100/418/tI/s1203), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/102/1148).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle B (§§ 1201 to 1217) of title I of [Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this subtitle to the Code, see References in Text note set out under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3001) and Tables.
