---
title: "§ 6333. Funding for laboratory directed research and development"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6333"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6333"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1449](/us/stat/139/1449).)"
---
# § 6333. Funding for laboratory directed research and development

##### § 6333. Funding for laboratory directed research and development

Notwithstanding section 307 of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 ([Public Law 111–85](/us/pl/111/85); [123 Stat. 2845](/us/stat/123/2845)), of the funds made available by the Department of Energy for activities at Government-owned, contractor-operated laboratories funded in the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 (div. D of [Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76)) or any subsequent Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act for any fiscal year, the Secretary may authorize a specific amount, not to exceed 6 percent of such funds, to be used by such laboratories for laboratory directed research and development.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1449](/us/stat/139/1449).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 307 of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, referred to in text, is [section 307 of Pub. L. 111–85](/us/pl/111/85/s307), title III, Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2872](/us/stat/123/2872), which is listed in a table of similar provisions under former [section 2791a of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2791a), War and National Defense.

The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014, referred to in text, is div. D of [Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76), Jan. 17, 2024, [128 Stat. 152](/us/stat/128/152). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6333 was renumbered [section 8333 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8333).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 309 of Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76/s309), which was set out as a note under [section 2791a of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2791a), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(19)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/19).
