---
title: "§ 3361. Definition"
identifier: "USC-T7-S3361"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section3361"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, § 1489](/us/pl/95/113/tXIV/s1489), as added [Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, § 7503](/us/pl/107/171/tVII/s7503), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 464](/us/stat/116/464).)"
---
# § 3361. Definition

##### § 3361. Definition

For the purposes of this subchapter, the term “eligible institution” means an institution of higher education (as defined in [section 1001(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a)) in an insular area that has demonstrable capacity to carry out teaching and extension programs in the food and agricultural sciences.

*([Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, § 1489](/us/pl/95/113/tXIV/s1489), as added [Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, § 7503](/us/pl/107/171/tVII/s7503), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 464](/us/stat/116/464).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Resident Instruction and Distance Education at Institutions of Higher Education in United States Insular Areas

[Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, § 7501(a)](/us/pl/107/171/tVII/s7501/a), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 463](/us/stat/116/463), provided that: “It is the purpose of this subtitle [subtitle E (§ 7501–7506) of title VII of [Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171), enacting this subchapter and sections 7631 and 7719 of this title, amending sections 3103, 7715, and 7772 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 3103 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s3103)] to promote and strengthen higher education in the food and agricultural sciences at institutions of higher education (as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001(a)](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a))) that have demonstrable capacity to carry out teaching and extension programs in food and agricultural sciences and that are located in the insular areas of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau by formulating and administering programs to enhance teaching programs in agriculture, natural resources, forestry, veterinary medicine, home economics, and disciplines closely allied to the food and agriculture production and delivery systems.”
