---
title: "§ 2807. Geoplatform"
identifier: "USC-T43-S2807"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section2807"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title VII, § 758](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tVII/s758), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3424](/us/stat/132/3424).)"
---
# § 2807. Geoplatform

##### § 2807. Geoplatform

(a) In general The Committee shall operate an electronic service that provides access to geospatial data and metadata for geospatial data to the general public, to be known as the GeoPlatform.

(b) Implementation

(1) In general The GeoPlatform—

(A) shall—

(i) be available through the internet and other communications means;

(ii) be accessible through a common interface;

(iii) include metadata for all geospatial data collected by covered agencies, directly or indirectly;

(iv) include download access to all open geospatial data directly or indirectly collected by covered agencies; and

(v) include a set of programming instructions and standards providing an automated means of accessing available geospatial data, which—

(I) harmonize sources and data standards associated with geospatial data, including metadata; and

(II) to the maximum extent practicable, as determined by the Chairperson of the Committee, shall be made publicly available;

(B) may include geospatial data from a source other than a covered agency, if determined appropriate by the Committee; and

(C) shall not store or serve proprietary information or data acquired under a license by the Federal Government, unless authorized by the data provider.

(2) Managing partner The Chairperson of the Committee shall designate an agency to serve as the managing partner for developing and operating the GeoPlatform, taking direction from the Committee on the scope, functionality, and performance of the GeoPlatform.

(c) Clarification Although the GeoPlatform is intended to include all National Geospatial Data Asset and other Federal datasets, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent a covered agency from also presenting, providing, or disseminating data that is—

(1) specific to the functions of the covered agency; or

(2) targeted to information consumers that directly interface with the services, portals, or other mechanisms of the covered agency.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title VII, § 758](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tVII/s758), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3424](/us/stat/132/3424).)*
