---
title: "§ 4606. Officers and employees"
identifier: "USC-T22-S4606"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section4606"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–525, title XVII, § 1707](/us/pl/98/525/tXVII/s1707), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2656](/us/stat/98/2656); [Pub. L. 100–569, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/100/569/tIII/s301/b), Oct. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 2864](/us/stat/102/2864); [Pub. L. 101–520, title III, § 319(c)](/us/pl/101/520/tIII/s319/c), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2285](/us/stat/104/2285); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XII, § 1225(c)(2), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–773](/us/stat/112/2681-773).)"
---
# § 4606. Officers and employees

##### § 4606. Officers and employees

(a) Appointment, compensation and status of president of Institute and other officers The Board shall appoint the president of the Institute and such other officers as the Board determines to be necessary. The president of the Institute shall be a nonvoting ex officio member of the Board. All officers shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. The president shall be appointed for an explicit term of years. Notwithstanding any other provision of law limiting the payment of compensation, the president and other officers appointed by the Board shall be compensated at rates determined by the Board, but no greater than that payable for level I of the Executive Schedule under chapter 53 of title 5.

(b) Authorization of activities Subject to the provisions of [section 4604(h)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4604/h/3), the Board shall authorize the president and any other officials or employees it designates to receive and disburse public moneys, obtain and make grants, enter into contracts, establish and collect fees, and undertake all other activities necessary for the efficient and proper functioning of the Institute.

(c) Appointment, compensation and status of personnel The president, subject to Institute’s bylaws and general policies established by the Board, may appoint, fix the compensation of, and remove such employees of the Institute as the president determines necessary to carry out the purposes of the Institute. In determining employee rates of compensation, the president shall be governed by the provisions of title 5 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.

(d) Assignment of Federal officers or employees to the Institute

(1) The president may request the assignment of any Federal officer or employee to the Institute by an appropriate department, agency, or congressional official or Member of Congress and may enter into an agreement for such assignment, if the affected officer or employee agrees to such assignment and such assignment causes no prejudice to the salary, benefits, status, or advancement within the department, agency, or congressional staff of such officer or employee.

(2) The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the Director of Central Intelligence each may assign officers and employees of his respective department or agency, on a rotating basis to be determined by the Board, to the Institute if the affected officer or employee agrees to such assignment and such assignment causes no prejudice to the salary, benefits, status, or advancement within the respective department or agency of such officer or employee.

(e) Dual compensation restriction No officer or full-time employee of the Institute may receive any salary or other compensation for services from any source other than the Institute during the officer’s or employee’s period of employment by the Institute, except as authorized by the Board.

(f) Federal employment status only for stated purposes

(1) Officers and employees of the Institute shall not be considered officers and employees of the Federal Government except for purposes of the provisions of title 28, which relate to Federal tort claims liability, and the provisions of title 5, which relate to compensation and benefits, including the following provisions: chapter 51 (relating to classification); subchapters I and III of chapter 53 (relating to pay rates); subchapter I of chapter 81 (relating to compensation for work injuries); chapter 83 (relating to civil service retirement); chapter 87 (relating to life insurance); and chapter 89 (relating to health insurance). The Institute shall make contributions at the same rates applicable to agencies of the Federal Government under the provisions of title 5 referred to in this section.

(2) The Institute shall not make long-term commitments to employees that are inconsistent with rules and regulations applicable to Federal employees.

(g) Distributions prohibited during life or upon dissolution or liquidation of Institute or legal entity; compensation for services or expenses No part of the financial resources, income, or assets of the Institute or of any legal entity created by the Institute shall inure to any agent, employee, officer, or director or be distributable to any such person during the life of the corporation or upon dissolution or final liquidation. Nothing in this section may be construed to prevent the payment of reasonable compensation for services or expenses to the directors, officers, employees, and agents of the Institute in amounts approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

(h) Loans prohibition; joint and several liability The Institute shall not make loans to its directors, officers, employees, or agents, or to any legal entity created by the Institute. A director, officer, employee, or agent who votes for or assents to the making of a loan or who participates in the making of a loan shall be jointly and severally liable to the Institute for the amount of the loan until repayment thereof.

*([Pub. L. 98–525, title XVII, § 1707](/us/pl/98/525/tXVII/s1707), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2656](/us/stat/98/2656); [Pub. L. 100–569, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/100/569/tIII/s301/b), Oct. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 2864](/us/stat/102/2864); [Pub. L. 101–520, title III, § 319(c)](/us/pl/101/520/tIII/s319/c), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2285](/us/stat/104/2285); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XII, § 1225(c)(2), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–773](/us/stat/112/2681-773).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Level I of the Executive Schedule, referred to in subsec. (a), is set out in [section 5312 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5312), Government Organization and Employees.

The provisions of title 5 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, referred to in subsec. (c), are set out in chapter 51 (§ 5101 et seq.) and subchapter III (§ 5331 et seq.) of chapter 53 of Title 5.

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), which directed the amendment of par. (2) by striking out “, Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency”, was executed by striking out “, the Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency” after “Secretary of Defense”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

1990—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 101–520](/us/pl/101/520) substituted “4604(h)(3)” for “4604(g)(3)”.

1988—Subsec. (f)(2). [Pub. L. 100–569](/us/pl/100/569) struck out first sentence which read as follows: “No Federal funds shall be used to pay for private fringe benefit programs.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence. Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. See section 1081(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458), set out as a note under [section 3001 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s3001), War and National Defense.

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) effective Apr. 1, 1999, see [section 1201 of Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277/s1201), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6511 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6511).
