---
title: "§ 1735f–8. Time of payment of premium charges"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1735f–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1735f–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), title V, § 530, as added [Pub. L. 96–399, title III, § 320](/us/pl/96/399/tIII/s320), Oct. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 1646](/us/stat/94/1646); amended [Pub. L. 98–181, title I](/us/pl/98/181/tI) [title IV, § 406], Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1210](/us/stat/97/1210); [Pub. L. 101–235, title I, § 133(d)(5)](/us/pl/101/235/tI/s133/d/5), Dec. 15, 1989, [103 Stat. 2027](/us/stat/103/2027).)"
---
# § 1735f–8. Time of payment of premium charges

##### § 1735f–8. Time of payment of premium charges

In carrying out the provisions of subchapters I, II, IV,11 See References in Text note below. VII, VIII, IX–B, and X pertaining to the payment of loan or mortgage insurance premium charges by a financial institution, other mortgagees, or agent thereof to the Federal Government in connection with a loan or mortgage insurance program established pursuant to any of these subchapters, the Secretary shall require that payment of such premiums be made (1) in the case of loans or mortgages respecting one- to four-family residences, promptly upon their receipt from the borrower, and (2) in any other case, promptly when due to the Secretary; except that the Secretary may approve payment of such premiums within twenty-four months of such receipt or due date, as appropriate, if the financial institution, mortgagee, or agent thereof pays interest, at a rate specified by the Secretary, to the insurance fund for the period beginning twenty days after receipt from the borrower or after the due date, as appropriate, and ending upon payment of the premiums to the Federal Government.

*([June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), title V, § 530, as added [Pub. L. 96–399, title III, § 320](/us/pl/96/399/tIII/s320), Oct. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 1646](/us/stat/94/1646); amended [Pub. L. 98–181, title I](/us/pl/98/181/tI) [title IV, § 406], Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1210](/us/stat/97/1210); [Pub. L. 101–235, title I, § 133(d)(5)](/us/pl/101/235/tI/s133/d/5), Dec. 15, 1989, [103 Stat. 2027](/us/stat/103/2027).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subchapter IV of this chapter, referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 101–73, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/101/73/tIV/s407), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 363](/us/stat/103/363).

#### Amendments

1989—[Pub. L. 101–235](/us/pl/101/235) struck out reference to subchapter IX–A after reference to subchapter VIII.

1983—[Pub. L. 98–181](/us/pl/98/181) substituted “(1) in the case of loans or mortgages respecting one- to four-family residences, promptly upon their receipt from the borrower, and (2) in any other case, promptly when due to the Secretary” for “promptly upon their receipt from the borrower”, inserted “or due date, as appropriate,” after “such receipt”, and inserted “or after the due date, as appropriate,” before “and ending”.
