---
title: "§ 311. Office of Intelligence and Analysis"
identifier: "USC-T31-S311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–177, title I, § 105(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/108/177/tI/s105/a/1/B), Dec. 13, 2003, [117 Stat. 2603](/us/stat/117/2603); amended [Pub. L. 108–447, div. H, title II, § 222(b)(1)](/us/pl/108/447/dH/tII/s222/b/1), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3245](/us/stat/118/3245).)"
---
# § 311. Office of Intelligence and Analysis

##### § 311. Office of Intelligence and Analysis

(a) Establishment.— There is established within the Department of the Treasury, the Office of Intelligence and Analysis (in this section referred to as the “Office”), which shall—

(1) be within the Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence;

(2) be responsible for the receipt, analysis, collation, and dissemination of foreign intelligence and foreign counterintelligence information (within the meaning of section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 ([50 U.S.C. 401a](/us/usc/t50/s401a))) 11 See References in Text note below. related to the operation and responsibilities of the Department of the Treasury; and

(3) have such other related duties and authorities as may be assigned to it by the Secretary, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary.

(b) Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis.— The Office shall be headed by an Assistant Secretary, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Assistant Secretary shall report directly to the Undersecretary of the Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Crimes.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–177, title I, § 105(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/108/177/tI/s105/a/1/B), Dec. 13, 2003, [117 Stat. 2603](/us/stat/117/2603); amended [Pub. L. 108–447, div. H, title II, § 222(b)(1)](/us/pl/108/447/dH/tII/s222/b/1), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3245](/us/stat/118/3245).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Security Act of 1947, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), [61 Stat. 495](/us/stat/61/495), which was formerly classified principally to chapter 15 (§ 401 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense, prior to editorial reclassification in chapter 44 (§ 3001 et seq.) of Title 50. Section 3 of the Act is now classified to [section 3003 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s3003). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 311 was renumbered [section 315 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s315).

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–447, § 222(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/108/447/s222/b/1/A), added par. (1) and redesignated former pars. (1) and (2) as (2) and (3), respectively.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–447, § 222(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/108/447/s222/b/1/B), substituted “Terrorism and Financial Crimes” for “Enforcement”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction

[Pub. L. 108–177, title I, § 105(b)](/us/pl/108/177/tI/s105/b), Dec. 13, 2003, [117 Stat. 2603](/us/stat/117/2603), as amended by [Pub. L. 111–259, title VIII, § 808](/us/pl/111/259/tVIII/s808), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2749](/us/stat/124/2749), provided that: “Nothing in [section 311 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s311), United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), or in section 313 of such title, shall be construed to alter the authorities and responsibilities of the Director of National Intelligence with respect to the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury as an element of the intelligence community.”

#### Pilot Program on Recruitment and Retention in Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title IV, § 416](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tIV/s416), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 979](/us/stat/136/979), provided that: “(a) Pilot Program Required.—The Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using adjustments of rates of pay to recruit and retain staff for high-demand positions in the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury. “(b) Duration.—The Assistant Secretary shall carry out the pilot program required by subsection (a) during the 4-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 15, 2022]. “(c) Additional Pay.—Under the pilot program required by subsection (a), the Assistant Secretary shall, notwithstanding any provision of title 5, United States Code, governing the rates of pay or classification of employees in the executive branch, prescribe the rate of basic pay for financial and cyber intelligence analyst positions designated under subsection (d) at rates—“(1) not greater than 130 percent of the maximum basic rate of pay and locality pay for which such positions would otherwise be eligible; and “(2) not greater than the rate of basic pay payable for level II of the Executive Schedule under [section 5313 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), United States Code. “(d) Designated Positions.—“(1) In general.—Subject to paragraph (2), under the pilot program required by subsection (a), the Assistant Secretary shall designate not fewer than 5 percent of the total number of positions in the Office, including positions to be filled by new hires, as financial or cyber intelligence analyst positions eligible for the additional pay under subsection (c). “(2) Current employees.—The Assistant Secretary may designate under paragraph (1) a position filled by an employee who was employed in that position on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act only if the employee was in the top one-third of performance rankings for the position within the Office for the duration of the 2-year period ending on the date of the enactment of this Act. “(e) Briefing on the Pilot Program.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each year thereafter for the duration of the period specified in subsection (b), the Assistant Secretary shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees and the Director of National Intelligence a briefing on the pilot program required by subsection (a). “(f) Report on the Pilot Program.—Not later than 180 days before the last day of the period specified in subsection (b), the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives, and the Director of National Intelligence a report on the effectiveness of the pilot program required by subsection (a) and recommendations as to whether such pilot program should be extended, modified, or ended. “(g) Recommendations of Director of National Intelligence.—Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees recommendations as to—“(1) which, if any, other elements of the intelligence community would benefit from a program similar to the pilot program required by subsection (a); and “(2) what, if any, modifications the Director would recommend for such elements. “(h) Retention of Prescribed Rates of Pay After Termination of Pilot Program.—After the conclusion of the period specified in subsection (b), the Assistant Secretary may continue to pay a person, who received pay during such period pursuant to a rate of basic pay prescribed under subsection (c), at a rate of basic pay not to exceed the rate of basic pay that was in effect for the person pursuant to such subsection on the day before the last day of such period, until such time as the applicable rate of basic pay for the person under the General Schedule exceeds the rate of basic pay that was so in effect under subsection (c). “(i) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.—In this section, the term ‘appropriate congressional committees’ means—“(1) the congressional intelligence committees; and “(2) the Subcommittees on Financial Services and General Government of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.”

[For definitions of “congressional intelligence committees” and “intelligence community” as used in [section 416 of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dX/s416), set out above, see [section 2 of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dX/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s3003), War and National Defense.]
