---
title: "§ 70201. State freight advisory committees"
identifier: "USC-T49-S70201"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section70201"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VIII, § 8001(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVIII/s8001/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/129/1610); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title I, § 21107](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tI/s21107), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 662](/us/stat/135/662).)"
---
# § 70201. State freight advisory committees

##### § 70201. State freight advisory committees

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation shall encourage each State to establish a freight advisory committee consisting of a representative cross-section of public and private sector freight stakeholders, including representatives of—

(1) ports, if applicable;

(2) freight railroads, if applicable;

(3) shippers;

(4) carriers;

(5) freight-related associations;

(6) third-party logistics providers;

(7) the freight industry workforce;

(8) the transportation department of the State;

(9) metropolitan planning organizations;

(10) local governments;

(11) the environmental protection department of the State, if applicable;

(12) the air resources board of the State, if applicable;

(13) economic development agencies of the State; and

(14) not-for-profit organizations or community organizations.

(b) Qualifications.— Each member of a freight advisory committee established under subsection (a) shall have qualifications sufficient to serve on a freight advisory committee, including, as applicable—

(1) general business and financial experience;

(2) experience or qualifications in the areas of freight transportation and logistics;

(3) experience in transportation planning;

(4) experience representing employees of the freight industry;

(5) experience representing a State, local government, or metropolitan planning organization; or

(6) experience representing the views of a community group or not-for-profit organization.

(c) Role of Committee.— A freight advisory committee of a State described in subsection (a) shall—

(1) advise the State on freight-related priorities, issues, projects, and funding needs;

(2) serve as a forum for discussion for State transportation decisions affecting freight mobility;

(3) communicate and coordinate regional priorities with other organizations;

(4) promote the sharing of information between the private and public sectors on freight issues; and

(5) participate in the development of the freight plan of the State described in section 70202, including by providing advice regarding the development of the freight investment plan.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title VIII, § 8001(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tVIII/s8001/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/129/1610); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title I, § 21107](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tI/s21107), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 662](/us/stat/135/662).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–58, § 21107(1)](/us/pl/117/58/s21107/1), substituted “representatives of—” and pars. (1) to (14) for “representatives of ports, freight railroads, shippers, carriers, freight-related associations, third-party logistics providers, the freight industry workforce, the transportation department of the State, and local governments.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–58, § 21107(4)](/us/pl/117/58/s21107/4), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 117–58, § 21107(2)](/us/pl/117/58/s21107/2), substituted “70202, including by providing advice regarding the development of the freight investment plan.” for “70202.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–58, § 21107(3)](/us/pl/117/58/s21107/3), redesignated subsec. (b) as (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.
