---
title: "§ 875. Emergency shelters; construction; contents; implementation plans"
identifier: "USC-T30-S875"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section875"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–173, title III, § 315](/us/pl/91/173/tIII/s315), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 787](/us/stat/83/787).)"
---
# § 875. Emergency shelters; construction; contents; implementation plans

##### § 875. Emergency shelters; construction; contents; implementation plans

The Secretary or an authorized representative of the Secretary may prescribe in any coal mine that rescue chambers, properly sealed and ventilated, be erected at suitable locations in the mine to which persons may go in case of an emergency for protection against hazards. Such chambers shall be properly equipped with first aid materials, an adequate supply of air and self-contained breathing equipment, an independent communication system to the surface, and proper accommodations for the persons while awaiting rescue, and such other equipment as the Secretary may require. A plan for the erection, maintenance, and revisions of such chambers and the training of the miners in their proper use shall be submitted by the operator to the Secretary for his approval.

*([Pub. L. 91–173, title III, § 315](/us/pl/91/173/tIII/s315), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 787](/us/stat/83/787).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Effective Date

Section operative 90 days after Dec. 30, 1969, except to the extent an earlier date is specifically provided for in [Pub. L. 91–173](/us/pl/91/173), see [section 509 of Pub. L. 91–173](/us/pl/91/173/s509), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s801).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 110–161, div. G, title I, § 112(b)](/us/pl/110/161/dG/tI/s112/b), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2168](/us/stat/121/2168), provided that: “Not later than June 15, 2008, the Secretary of Labor shall propose regulations pursuant to section 315 of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 [[30 U.S.C. 875](/us/usc/t30/s875)], consistent with the recommendations of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health pursuant to section 13 of the MINER Act ([Public Law 109–236](/us/pl/109/236)) [[120 Stat. 504](/us/stat/120/504)], requiring rescue chambers, or facilities that afford at least the same measure of protection, in underground coal mines. The Secretary shall finalize the regulations not later than December 31, 2008.”
