---
title: "§ 220551. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S220551"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section220551"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–189, § 5(a)(2)](/us/pl/116/189/s5/a/2), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 946](/us/stat/134/946).)"
---
# § 220551. Definitions

##### § 220551. Definitions

(1) which does not have a preamble; and

(2) for which—

(A)

(i) the title is only as follows: “A joint resolution to dissolve the board of directors of the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee”; and

(ii) the matter after the resolving clause—

(I) is as follows: “That Congress finds that dissolving the board of directors of the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee would not unduly interfere with the operations of chapter 2205 of title 36, United States Code”; and

(II) prescribes adequate procedures for forming a board of directors of the corporation as expeditiously as possible and in a manner that safeguards the membership and voting power of the representatives of amateur athletes at all times, consistent with the membership and voting power of amateur athletes under section 220504(b)(2); or

(B)

(i) the title is only as follows: “A joint resolution relating to terminating the recognition of a national governing body”; and

(ii) the matter after the resolving clause is only as follows: “That Congress determines that _________, which is recognized as a national governing body under [section 220521 of title 36](/us/usc/t36/s220521), United States Code, has failed to fulfill its duties, as described in [section 220524 of title 36](/us/usc/t36/s220524), United States Code”, the blank space being filled in with the name of the applicable national governing body.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–189, § 5(a)(2)](/us/pl/116/189/s5/a/2), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 946](/us/stat/134/946).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 5(c)](/us/pl/116/189/s5/c), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 947](/us/stat/134/947), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this subchapter and redesignating subchapter III relating to United States Center for SafeSport as subchapter IV] shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 2020].”
