---
title: "§ 20501. Definition"
identifier: "USC-T49-S20501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section20501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 883](/us/stat/108/883).)"
---
# § 20501. Definition

##### § 20501. Definition

In this chapter, “signal system” means a block signal system, an interlocking, automatic train stop, train control, or cab-signal device, or a similar appliance, method, device, or system intended to promote safety in railroad operations.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 883](/us/stat/108/883).)*

This section is added to eliminate the unnecessary repetition of the words used in the definition. The definition is derived from 49 App.:26(b)–(f).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20501 | (no source). |  |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Signal Protection

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title XI, § 11408](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tXI/s11408), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1684](/us/stat/129/1684), provided that: “(a) In General.—Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2015], the Secretary [of Transportation] shall initiate a rulemaking to require that on-track safety regulations, whenever practicable and consistent with other safety requirements and operational considerations, include requiring implementation of redundant signal protection for maintenance-of-way work crews who depend on a train dispatcher to provide signal protection. “(b) Alternative Safety Measures.—The Secretary shall consider exempting from any final requirements of this section each segment of track for which operations are governed by a positive train control system certified under [section 20157 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s20157), United States Code, or any other safety technology or practice that would achieve an equivalent or greater level of safety in providing additional signal protection.”
