---
title: "§ 379d–3. Streamlined hiring authority"
identifier: "USC-T21-S379d–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section379d–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 714](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s714), as added and amended [Pub. L. 112–144, title II, § 208](/us/pl/112/144/tII/s208), title III, § 307, July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1007](/us/stat/126/1007), 1025; [Pub. L. 115–52, title II, § 202(b)](/us/pl/115/52/tII/s202/b), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1013](/us/stat/131/1013).)"
---
# § 379d–3. Streamlined hiring authority

##### § 379d–3. Streamlined hiring authority

(a) In general In addition to any other personnel authorities under other provisions of law, the Secretary may, without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, appoint employees to positions in the Food and Drug Administration to perform, administer, or support activities described in subsection (b), if the Secretary determines that such appointments are needed to achieve the objectives specified in subsection (c).

(b) Activities described The activities described in this subsection are—

(1) activities under this chapter related to the process for the review of device applications (as defined in [section 379i(9) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379i/9)); and

(2) activities under this chapter related to human generic drug activities (as defined in [section 379j–41 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41)).

(c) Objectives specified The objectives specified in this subsection are—

(1) with respect to the activities under subsection (b)(1), the goals referred to in [section 379j–1(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–1/a/1); and

(2) with respect to the activities under subsection (b)(2), the goals referred to in [section 379j–43(a) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–43/a).

(d) Internal controls The Secretary shall institute appropriate internal controls for appointments under this section.

(e) Sunset The authority to appoint employees under this section shall terminate on the date that is 3 years after July 9, 2012.

*([June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 714](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch675/s714), as added and amended [Pub. L. 112–144, title II, § 208](/us/pl/112/144/tII/s208), title III, § 307, July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1007](/us/stat/126/1007), 1025; [Pub. L. 115–52, title II, § 202(b)](/us/pl/115/52/tII/s202/b), Aug. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1013](/us/stat/131/1013).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 115–52](/us/pl/115/52) substituted “379i(9)” for “379i(8)”.

2012—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–144, § 307(1)](/us/pl/112/144/s307/1), amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The activities described in this subsection are activities under this chapter related to the process for the review of device applications (as defined in [section 379i(8) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379i/8)).”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–144, § 307(2)](/us/pl/112/144/s307/2), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The objectives specified in this subsection are with respect to the activities under subsection (b), the goals referred to in [section 379j–1(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–1/a/1).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–52](/us/pl/115/52) effective Oct. 1, 2017, with fees under subpart 3 of part C of this subchapter to be assessed for all submissions listed in [section 379j(a)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j/a/2/A) received on or after Oct. 1, 2017, see [section 209 of Pub. L. 115–52](/us/pl/115/52/s209), set out as a note under [section 379i of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379i).

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [section 307 of Pub. L. 112–144](/us/pl/112/144/s307) effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 305 of Pub. L. 112–144](/us/pl/112/144/s305), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates note under [section 379j–41 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379j–41).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 206 of Pub. L. 112–144](/us/pl/112/144/s206), set out as an Effective Date of 2012 Amendment note under [section 379i of this title](/us/usc/t21/s379i).
