---
title: "§ 12472. Purpose"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12472"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12472"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41402](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41402), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/109/162/tVI/s601), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/119/3031); amended [Pub. L. 113–4, title VI, § 601(a)(2)](/us/pl/113/4/tVI/s601/a/2), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 102](/us/stat/127/102).)"
---
# § 12472. Purpose

##### § 12472. Purpose

(1) protecting the safety of victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking who reside in homeless shelters, public housing, assisted housing, tribally designated housing, or other emergency, transitional, permanent, or affordable housing, and ensuring that such victims have meaningful access to the criminal justice system without jeopardizing such housing;

(2) creating long-term housing solutions that develop communities and provide sustainable living solutions for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(3) building collaborations among victim service providers, homeless service providers, housing providers, and housing agencies to provide appropriate services, interventions, and training to address the housing needs of victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; and

(4) enabling public and assisted housing agencies, tribally designated housing entities, private landlords, property management companies, and other housing providers and agencies to respond appropriately to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, while maintaining a safe environment for all housing residents.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41402](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41402), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/109/162/tVI/s601), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/119/3031); amended [Pub. L. 113–4, title VI, § 601(a)(2)](/us/pl/113/4/tVI/s601/a/2), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 102](/us/stat/127/102).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14043e–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14043e–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2013—[Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) substituted “subpart” for “part” in introductory provisions.
