---
title: "§ 1421. Single public safety wireless network licensee"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1421"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1421"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6201](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6201), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 206](/us/stat/126/206).)"
---
# § 1421. Single public safety wireless network licensee

##### § 1421. Single public safety wireless network licensee

(a) Reallocation and grant of license Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject to the provisions of this chapter, the Commission shall reallocate and grant a license to the First Responder Network Authority for the use of the 700 MHz D block spectrum and existing public safety broadband spectrum.

(b) Term of license

(1) Initial license The license granted under subsection (a) shall be for an initial term of 10 years from the date of the initial issuance of the license.

(2) Renewal of license Prior to expiration of the term of the initial license granted under subsection (a) or the expiration of any subsequent renewal of such license, the First Responder Network Authority shall submit to the Commission an application for the renewal of such license. Such renewal application shall demonstrate that, during the preceding license term, the First Responder Network Authority has met the duties and obligations set forth under this chapter. A renewal license granted under this paragraph shall be for a term of not to exceed 10 years.

(c) Facilitation of transition The Commission shall take all actions necessary to facilitate the transition of the existing public safety broadband spectrum to the First Responder Network Authority.

*([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6201](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6201), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 206](/us/stat/126/206).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(2), was in the original “this Act”, and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title VI of [Pub. L. 112–96](/us/pl/112/96), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 201](/us/stat/126/201), to reflect the probable intent of Congress. Title VI enacted this chapter and [section 929 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s929), amended sections 309, 337, 614, 902, 923, 928, and 942 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 1401 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1401).
