---
title: "§ 3101. Authority to suspend inspection"
identifier: "USC-T46-S3101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section3101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 510](/us/stat/97/510).)"
---
# § 3101. Authority to suspend inspection

##### § 3101. Authority to suspend inspection

When the President decides that the needs of foreign commerce require, the President may suspend a provision of this part for a foreign-built vessel registered as a vessel of the United States on conditions the President may specify.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 510](/us/stat/97/510).)*

Section 3101 provides the President with the authority to suspend the inspection laws for a foreign-built reflagged U.S. vessel when the needs of foreign commerce require this. For example, if a foreign-flag vessel is reflagged in the U.S. but does not meet the specific Coast Guard inspection requirements, the President could suspend these requirements.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 3101 | 46:82 |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 98–89, § 2(g)(1)](/us/pl/98/89/s2/g/1), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 599](/us/stat/97/599), provided that: “Part B [chapters 31 to 43] of subtitle II and sections 7306 (related to able seaman sail) and 7311 of title 46 (as enacted by section 1 of this Act) take effect April 15, 1984, or when regulations for sailing school vessels under part B are effective, whichever is earlier.” [Part B of subtitle II and sections 7306 (related to able seaman sail) and 7311 of title 46 effective Apr. 15, 1984, in absence of regulations for sailing school vessels under part B on that date.]

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation to Secretary of the Treasury of authority vested in President by this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 10289, Sept. 17, 1951, 16 F.R. 9499, set out as a note under [section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), The President.
