---
title: "§ 16359. Competitive award of management contracts"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16359"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16359"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 995](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s995), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 914](/us/stat/119/914).)"
---
# § 16359. Competitive award of management contracts

##### § 16359. Competitive award of management contracts

None of the funds authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary by this subchapter may be used to award a management and operating contract for a National Laboratory (excluding those named in subparagraphs (G), (H), (N), and (O) of [section 15801(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801/3)), unless such contract is competitively awarded, or the Secretary grants, on a case-by-case basis, a waiver. The Secretary may not delegate the authority to grant such a waiver and shall submit to Congress a report notifying it of the waiver, and setting forth the reasons for the waiver, at least 60 days prior to the date of the award of such contract.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 995](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s995), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 914](/us/stat/119/914).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title IX of [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 856](/us/stat/119/856), which enacted this subchapter, amended sections 8101 and 8102 of Title 7, Agriculture, and [section 5523 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s5523), Commerce and Trade, enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 15801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801), [section 8102 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8102), and [section 2001 of Title 30](/us/usc/t30/s2001), Mineral Lands and Mining, and amended provisions set out as notes under [section 8101 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8101) and [section 1902 of Title 30](/us/usc/t30/s1902). For complete classification of title IX to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 15801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801) and Tables.
