---
title: "§ 305. Growth projections for new embassies and consulates"
identifier: "USC-T22-S305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LII, § 5205](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLII/s5205), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2355](/us/stat/135/2355).)"
---
# § 305. Growth projections for new embassies and consulates

##### § 305. Growth projections for new embassies and consulates

(a) In general For each new United States embassy compound (NEC) and new consulate compound project (NCC) in or not yet in the design phase as of December 27, 2021, the Department shall project growth over the estimated life of the facility using all available and relevant data, including the following:

(1) Relevant historical trends for Department personnel and personnel from other agencies represented at the NEC or NCC that is to be constructed.

(2) An analysis of the tradeoffs between risk and the needs of United States Government policy conducted as part of the most recent Vital Presence Validation Process, if applicable.

(3) Reasonable assumptions about the strategic importance of the NEC or NCC, as the case may be, over the life of the building at issue.

(4) Any other data that would be helpful in projecting the future growth of NEC or NCC.

(b) Other Federal agencies The head of each Federal agency represented at a United States embassy or consulate shall provide to the Secretary, upon request, growth projections for the personnel of each such agency over the estimated life of each embassy or consulate, as the case may be.

(c) Basis for estimates The Department shall base its growth assumption for all NECs and NCCs on the estimates required under subsections (a) and (b).

(d) Congressional notification Any congressional notification of site selection for a NEC or NCC submitted after December 27, 2021 shall include the growth assumption used pursuant to subsection (c).

*([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LII, § 5205](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLII/s5205), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2355](/us/stat/135/2355).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State Authorization Act of 2021 and also as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022, and not as part of the Foreign Service Buildings Act, 1926, which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Department” and “Secretary” as used in this section, see [section 5002 of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s5002), set out as a note under [section 263c of this title](/us/usc/t22/s263c).
