---
title: "§ 12782. Priorities for capacity development"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12782"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12782"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 242](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s242), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4118](/us/stat/104/4118); [Pub. L. 102–550, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/102/550/tII/s214/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3759](/us/stat/106/3759).)"
---
# § 12782. Priorities for capacity development

##### § 12782. Priorities for capacity development

(1) facilitate the exchange of information that would help participating jurisdictions carry out the purposes of this subchapter, including information on program design, housing finance, land use controls, and building construction techniques;

(2) improve the ability of States and units of general local government to design and implement comprehensive housing affordability strategies, particularly those States and units of general local government that are relatively inexperienced in the development of affordable housing;

(3) encourage private lenders and for-profit developers of low-income housing to participate in public-private partnerships to achieve the purposes of this subchapter;

(4) improve the ability of States and units of general local government, community housing development organizations, private lenders, and for-profit developers of low-income housing to incorporate energy efficiency into the planning, design, financing, construction, and operation of affordable housing;

(5) facilitate the establishment and efficient operation of employer-assisted housing programs through research, technical assistance and demonstration projects; and

(6) facilitate the establishment and efficient operation of land bank programs, under which title to vacant and abandoned parcels of real estate located in or causing blighted neighborhoods is cleared for use consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 242](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s242), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4118](/us/stat/104/4118); [Pub. L. 102–550, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/102/550/tII/s214/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3759](/us/stat/106/3759).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—Par. (6). [Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) added par. (6).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) applicable to unexpended funds allocated under subchapter II of this chapter in fiscal year 1992, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 223 of Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550/s223), set out as a note under [section 12704 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12704).
