---
title: "§ 767. Commodity broker liquidation and forward contract merchants, commodity brokers, stockbrokers, financial institutions, financial participants, securities clearing agencies, swap participants, repo participants, and master netting agreement participants"
identifier: "USC-T11-S767"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section767"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–8, title IX, § 907](/us/pl/109/8/tIX/s907)(*l*), Apr. 20, 2005, [119 Stat. 181](/us/stat/119/181).)"
---
# § 767. Commodity broker liquidation and forward contract merchants, commodity brokers, stockbrokers, financial institutions, financial participants, securities clearing agencies, swap participants, repo participants, and master netting agreement participants

##### § 767. Commodity broker liquidation and forward contract merchants, commodity brokers, stockbrokers, financial institutions, financial participants, securities clearing agencies, swap participants, repo participants, and master netting agreement participants

Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the exercise of rights by a forward contract merchant, commodity broker, stockbroker, financial institution, financial participant, securities clearing agency, swap participant, repo participant, or master netting agreement participant under this title shall not affect the priority of any unsecured claim it may have after the exercise of such rights.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–8, title IX, § 907](/us/pl/109/8/tIX/s907)(*l*), Apr. 20, 2005, [119 Stat. 181](/us/stat/119/181).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Apr. 20, 2005, and not applicable with respect to cases commenced under this title before such effective date, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1501 of Pub. L. 109–8](/us/pl/109/8/s1501), set out as an Effective Date of 2005 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).
