---
title: "§ 4813. Refunds"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4813"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4813"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–198, title XVI, § 1624](/us/pl/99/198/tXVI/s1624), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1619](/us/stat/99/1619).)"
---
# § 4813. Refunds

##### § 4813. Refunds

(a) Demand for refund; persons eligible Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, prior to the approval of the continuation of an order pursuant to the referendum required under [section 4811(a) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4811/a), any person shall have the right to demand and receive from the Board a refund of an assessment collected under [section 4809 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4809) if such person—

(1) is responsible for paying such assessment; and

(2) does not support the program established under this chapter.

(b) Form and time within which demand to be made Such demand shall be made in accordance with regulations, on a form, and within a time period prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary, but not later than 30 days after the end of the month in which the assessment was paid.

(c) Payment of refund on submission of satisfactory proof Such refund shall be made not later than 30 days after demand is received therefore 11 So in original. Probably should be “therefor”. on submission of proof satisfactory to the Board that the producer, person, or importer—

(1) paid the assessment for which refund is sought; and

(2) did not collect such assessment from another producer, person, or importer.

*([Pub. L. 99–198, title XVI, § 1624](/us/pl/99/198/tXVI/s1624), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1619](/us/stat/99/1619).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1986, see [section 1631 of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s1631), set out as a note under [section 4801 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4801).
