---
title: "§ 8814a. Subcommittee on the Economic and Security Implications of Quantum Information Science"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8814a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8814a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–368, title I, § 105](/us/pl/115/368/tI/s105), as added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXVI, § 6606(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXVI/s6606/a/2), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2442](/us/stat/135/2442).)"
---
# § 8814a. Subcommittee on the Economic and Security Implications of Quantum Information Science

##### § 8814a. Subcommittee on the Economic and Security Implications of Quantum Information Science

(a) Establishment The President shall establish, through the National Science and Technology Council, the Subcommittee on the Economic and Security Implications of Quantum Information Science.

(b) Membership The Subcommittee shall include a representative of—

(1) the Department of Energy;

(2) the Department of Defense;

(3) the Department of Commerce;

(4) the Department of Homeland Security;

(5) the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;

(6) the Office of Management and Budget;

(7) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;

(8) the Department of Justice;

(9) the National Science Foundation;

(10) the National Institute of Standards and Technology; and

(11) such other Federal department or agency as the President considers appropriate.

(c) Responsibilities The Subcommittee shall—

(1) in coordination with the Director of the Office and 11 So in original. Probably should be “of”. Management and Budget, the Director of the National Quantum Coordination Office, and the Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science, track investments of the Federal Government in quantum information science research and development;

(2) review and assess any economic or security implications of such investments;

(3) review and assess any counterintelligence risks or other foreign threats to such investments;

(4) recommend goals and priorities for the Federal Government and make recommendations to Federal departments and agencies and the Director of the National Quantum Coordination Office to address any counterintelligence risks or other foreign threats identified as a result of an assessment under paragraph (3);

(5) assess the export of technology associated with quantum information science and recommend to the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of State export controls necessary to protect the economic and security interests of the United States as a result of such assessment;

(6) recommend to Federal departments and agencies investment strategies in quantum information science that advance the economic and security interest of the United States;

(7) recommend to the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Energy appropriate protections to address counterintelligence risks or other foreign threats identified as a result of the assessment under paragraph (3); and

(8) in coordination with the Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science, ensure the approach of the United States to investments of the Federal Government in quantum information science research and development reflects a balance between scientific progress and the potential economic and security implications of such progress.

(d) Technical and administrative support

(1) In general The Secretary of Energy, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Director of the National Quantum Coordination Office may provide to the Subcommittee personnel, equipment, facilities, and such other technical and administrative support as may be necessary for the Subcommittee to carry out the responsibilities of the Subcommittee under this section.

(2) Support related to classified information The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and the Director of National Intelligence shall provide to the Subcommittee technical and administrative support related to the responsibilities of the Subcommittee that involve classified information, including support related to sensitive compartmented information facilities and the storage of classified information.

*([Pub. L. 115–368, title I, § 105](/us/pl/115/368/tI/s105), as added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXVI, § 6606(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXVI/s6606/a/2), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2442](/us/stat/135/2442).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section, see [section 8815 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8815).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 105 of Pub. L. 115–368](/us/pl/115/368/s105) was renumbered section 106 and is classified to [section 8815 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8815).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXVI, § 6606(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXVI/s6606/b/2), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2443](/us/stat/135/2443), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [enacting this section and amending [section 8815 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8815)] shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the National Quantum Initiative Act ([15 U.S.C. 8801](/us/usc/t15/s8801) et seq.).”
