---
title: "§ 31144. Safety fitness of owners and operators"
identifier: "USC-T49-S31144"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section31144"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1012](/us/stat/108/1012); [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 104(g)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s104/g), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 920](/us/stat/109/920); [Pub. L. 105–178, title IV, § 4009(a)](/us/pl/105/178/tIV/s4009/a), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 405](/us/stat/112/405); [Pub. L. 106–159, title II, § 210(a)](/us/pl/106/159/tII/s210/a), Dec. 9, 1999, [113 Stat. 1764](/us/stat/113/1764); [Pub. L. 109–59, title IV](/us/pl/109/59/tIV), §§ 4107"
---
# § 31144. Safety fitness of owners and operators

##### § 31144. Safety fitness of owners and operators

(a) In General.— The Secretary shall—

(1) determine whether an owner or operator is fit to operate safely commercial motor vehicles, utilizing among other things the accident record of an owner or operator operating in interstate commerce and the accident record and safety inspection record of such owner or operator—

(A) in operations that affect interstate commerce within the United States; and

(B) in operations in Canada and Mexico if the owner or operator also conducts operations within the United States;

(2) periodically update such safety fitness determinations;

(3) make such final safety fitness determinations readily available to the public; and

(4) prescribe by regulation penalties for violations of this section consistent with section 521.

(b) Procedure.— The Secretary shall maintain by regulation a procedure for determining the safety fitness of an owner or operator. The procedure shall include, at a minimum, the following elements:

(1) Specific initial and continuing requirements with which an owner or operator must comply to demonstrate safety fitness.

(2) A methodology the Secretary will use to determine whether an owner or operator is fit.

(3) Specific time frames within which the Secretary will determine whether an owner or operator is fit.

(c) Prohibited Transportation.—

(1) In general.— Except as provided in section 521(b)(5)(A) and this subsection, an owner or operator who the Secretary determines is not fit may not operate commercial motor vehicles in interstate commerce beginning on the 61st day after the date of such fitness determination and until the Secretary determines such owner or operator is fit.

(2) Owners or operators transporting passengers.— With regard to owners or operators of commercial motor vehicles designed or used to transport passengers, an owner or operator who the Secretary determines is not fit may not operate in interstate commerce beginning on the 46th day after the date of such fitness determination and until the Secretary determines such owner or operator is fit.

(3) Owners or operators transporting hazardous material.— With regard to owners or operators of commercial motor vehicles designed or used to transport hazardous material for which placarding of a motor vehicle is required under regulations prescribed under chapter 51, an owner or operator who the Secretary determines is not fit may not operate in interstate commerce beginning on the 46th day after the date of such fitness determination and until the Secretary determines such owner or operator is fit. A violation of this paragraph by an owner or operator transporting hazardous material shall be considered a violation of chapter 51, and shall be subject to the penalties in sections 5123 and 5124.

(4) Secretary’s discretion.— Except for owners or operators described in paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary may allow an owner or operator who is not fit to continue operating for an additional 60 days after the 61st day after the date of the Secretary’s fitness determination, if the Secretary determines that such owner or operator is making a good faith effort to become fit.

(5) Transportation affecting interstate commerce.— Owners or operators of commercial motor vehicles prohibited from operating in interstate commerce pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3) of this section may not operate any commercial motor vehicle that affects interstate commerce until the Secretary determines that such owner or operator is fit.

(d) Determination of Unfitness by State.— If a State that receives motor carrier safety assistance program funds under section 31102 determines, by applying the standards prescribed by the Secretary under subsection (b), that an owner or operator of a commercial motor vehicle that has its principal place of business in that State and operates in intrastate commerce is unfit under such standards and prohibits the owner or operator from operating such vehicle in the State, the Secretary shall prohibit the owner or operator from operating such vehicle in interstate commerce until the State determines that the owner or operator is fit.

(e) Review of Fitness Determinations.—

(1) In general.— Not later than 45 days after an unfit owner or operator requests a review, the Secretary shall review such owner’s or operator’s compliance with those requirements with which the owner or operator failed to comply and resulted in the Secretary determining that the owner or operator was not fit.

(2) Owners or operators transporting passengers.— Not later than 30 days after an unfit owner or operator of commercial motor vehicles designed or used to transport passengers requests a review, the Secretary shall review such owner’s or operator’s compliance with those requirements with which the owner or operator failed to comply and resulted in the Secretary determining that the owner or operator was not fit.

(3) Owners or operators transporting hazardous material.— Not later than 30 days after an unfit owner or operator of commercial motor vehicles designed or used to transport hazardous material for which placarding of a motor vehicle is required under regulations prescribed under chapter 51, the Secretary shall review such owner’s or operator’s compliance with those requirements with which the owner or operator failed to comply and resulted in the Secretary determining that the owner or operator was not fit.

(f) Prohibited Government Use.— A department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government may not use to provide any transportation service an owner or operator who the Secretary has determined is not fit until the Secretary determines such owner or operator is fit.

(g) Safety Reviews of New Operators.—

(1) Safety review.—

(A) In general.— Except as provided under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall require, by regulation, each owner and each operator granted new registration under section 13902 or 31134 to undergo a safety review not later than 12 months after the owner or operator, as the case may be, begins operations under such registration.

(B) Providers of motorcoach services.— The Secretary shall require, by regulation, each owner and each operator granted new registration to transport passengers under section 13902 or 31134 to undergo a safety review not later than 120 days after the owner or operator, as the case may be, begins operations under such registration.

(2) Elements.— In the regulations issued pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall establish the elements of the safety review, including basic safety management controls. In establishing such elements, the Secretary shall consider their effects on small businesses and shall consider establishing alternate locations where such reviews may be conducted for the convenience of small businesses.

(3) Phase-in of requirement.— The Secretary shall phase in the requirements of paragraph (1) in a manner that takes into account the availability of certified motor carrier safety auditors.

(4) New entrant authority.— Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, any new operating authority granted after the date on which section 31148(b) is first implemented shall be designated as new entrant authority until the safety review required by paragraph (1) is completed.

[(5) Repealed. [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title V, § 5101(e)(1)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tV/s5101/e/1), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1525](/us/stat/129/1525).]

(6) Additional requirements for household goods motor carriers.—

(A) In general.— In addition to the requirements of this subsection, the Secretary shall require, by regulation, each registered household goods motor carrier to undergo a consumer protection standards review not later than 18 months after the household goods motor carrier begins operations under such authority.

(B) Elements.— In the regulations issued pursuant to subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall establish the elements of the consumer protections standards review, including basic management controls. In establishing the elements, the Secretary shall consider the effects on small businesses and shall consider establishing alternate locations where such reviews may be conducted for the convenience of small businesses.

(h) Recognition of Canadian Motor Carrier Safety Fitness Determinations.—

(1) If an authorized agency of the Canadian federal government or a Canadian Territorial or Provincial government determines, by applying the procedure and standards prescribed by the Secretary under subsection (b) or pursuant to an agreement under paragraph (2), that a Canadian employer is unfit and prohibits the employer from operating a commercial motor vehicle in Canada or any Canadian Province, the Secretary may prohibit the employer from operating such vehicle in interstate and foreign commerce until the authorized Canadian agency determines that the employer is fit.

(2) The Secretary may consult and participate in negotiations with authorized officials of the Canadian federal government or a Canadian Territorial or Provincial government, as necessary, to provide reciprocal recognition of each country’s motor carrier safety fitness determinations. An agreement shall provide, to the maximum extent practicable, that each country will follow the procedure and standards prescribed by the Secretary under subsection (b) in making motor carrier safety fitness determinations.

(i) Periodic Safety Reviews of Owners and Operators of Interstate For-hire Commercial Motor Vehicles Designed or Used to Transport Passengers.—

(1) Safety review.—

(A) In general.— The Secretary shall—

(i) determine the safety fitness of each motor carrier of passengers who the Secretary registers under section 13902 or 31134 through a simple and understandable rating system that allows passengers to compare the safety performance of each such motor carrier; and

(ii) assign a safety fitness rating to each such motor carrier.

(B) Applicability.— Subparagraph (A) shall apply—

(i) to any provider of motorcoach services registered with the Administration after the date of enactment of the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act of 2012 beginning not later than 2 years after the date of such registration; and

(ii) to any provider of motorcoach services registered with the Administration on or before the date of enactment of that Act beginning not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of that Act.

(2) Periodic review.— The Secretary shall establish, by regulation, a process for monitoring the safety performance of each motor carrier of passengers on a regular basis following the assignment of a safety fitness rating, including progressive intervention to correct unsafe practices.

(3) Enforcement strike forces.— In addition to the enhanced monitoring and enforcement actions required under paragraph (2), the Secretary may organize special enforcement strike forces targeting motor carriers of passengers.

(4) Periodic update of safety fitness rating.— In conducting the safety reviews required under this subsection, the Secretary shall—

(A) reassess the safety fitness rating of each motor carrier of passengers not less frequently than once every 3 years; and

(B) annually assess the safety fitness of certain motor carriers of passengers that serve primarily urban areas with high passenger loads.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1012](/us/stat/108/1012); [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 104(g)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s104/g), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 920](/us/stat/109/920); [Pub. L. 105–178, title IV, § 4009(a)](/us/pl/105/178/tIV/s4009/a), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 405](/us/stat/112/405); [Pub. L. 106–159, title II, § 210(a)](/us/pl/106/159/tII/s210/a), Dec. 9, 1999, [113 Stat. 1764](/us/stat/113/1764); [Pub. L. 109–59, title IV](/us/pl/109/59/tIV), §§ 4107(b), 4114, title VII, § 7112(b), (c), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1720](/us/stat/119/1720), 1725, 1899; [Pub. L. 110–244, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/110/244/tIII/s301/b), (c), June 6, 2008, [122 Stat. 1616](/us/stat/122/1616); [Pub. L. 111–147, title IV, § 422(e)](/us/pl/111/147/tIV/s422/e), Mar. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 87](/us/stat/124/87); [Pub. L. 111–322, title II, § 2202(e)](/us/pl/111/322/tII/s2202/e), Dec. 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 3525](/us/stat/124/3525); [Pub. L. 112–5, title II, § 202(e)](/us/pl/112/5/tII/s202/e), Mar. 4, 2011, [125 Stat. 17](/us/stat/125/17); [Pub. L. 112–30, title I, § 122(e)](/us/pl/112/30/tI/s122/e), Sept. 16, 2011, [125 Stat. 349](/us/stat/125/349); [Pub. L. 112–102, title II, § 202(e)](/us/pl/112/102/tII/s202/e), Mar. 30, 2012, [126 Stat. 274](/us/stat/126/274); [Pub. L. 112–140, title II, § 202(e)](/us/pl/112/140/tII/s202/e), June 29, 2012, [126 Stat. 395](/us/stat/126/395); [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII), §§ 32102(a), 32202, 32603(e), 32707(a), 32921(b), div. G, title II, § 112002(d), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 778](/us/stat/126/778), 784, 808, 813, 828, 983; [Pub. L. 113–159, title I, § 1102(e)](/us/pl/113/159/tI/s1102/e), Aug. 8, 2014, [128 Stat. 1844](/us/stat/128/1844); [Pub. L. 114–21, title I, § 1102(e)](/us/pl/114/21/tI/s1102/e), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 222](/us/stat/129/222); [Pub. L. 114–41, title I, § 1102(e)](/us/pl/114/41/tI/s1102/e), July 31, 2015, [129 Stat. 449](/us/stat/129/449); [Pub. L. 114–73, title I, § 1102(e)](/us/pl/114/73/tI/s1102/e), Oct. 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 572](/us/stat/129/572); [Pub. L. 114–87, title I, § 1102(e)](/us/pl/114/87/tI/s1102/e), Nov. 20, 2015, [129 Stat. 681](/us/stat/129/681); [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title V](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tV), §§ 5101(e)(1), 5105(d), 5508(b)(4), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1525](/us/stat/129/1525), 1529, 1554.)*

In subsection (a), the word “regulation” is substituted for “rule” for consistency in the revised title and because the terms are synonymous.

In subsection (a)(1), the words “after notice and opportunity for comment” are omitted as unnecessary because of 5:553. The text of 49 App.:2512(b) is omitted as executed.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 31144(a)(1) | 49 App.:2512(a), (b). | Oct. 30, 1984, Pub. L. 98–554, § 215, 98 Stat. 2844. |
| 31144(a)(2) | 49 App.:2512(c). |  |
| 31144(b) | 49 App.:2512(d). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act of 2012, referred to in subsec. (i)(1)(B), is the date of enactment of subtitle G of title II of div. C of [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141), which was approved July 6, 2012.

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (g)(5). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 5101(e)(1)](/us/pl/114/94/s5101/e/1), struck out par. (5) which provided for grants to States for new entrant audits.

Subsec. (g)(5)(B). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 5105(d)](/us/pl/114/94/s5105/d), amended subpar. (B) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall set aside from amounts made available by section 31104(a) up to $32,000,000 per fiscal year and up to $5,683,060 for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on December 4, 2015, for audits of new entrant motor carriers conducted pursuant to this paragraph.”

[Pub. L. 114–87](/us/pl/114/87) substituted “and up to $5,683,060 for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on December 4, 2015,” for “and up to $4,459,016 for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on November 20, 2015,”.

[Pub. L. 114–73](/us/pl/114/73) substituted “and up to $4,459,016 for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on November 20, 2015,” for “and up to $2,535,519 for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on October 29, 2015,”.

[Pub. L. 114–41](/us/pl/114/41) substituted “per fiscal year and up to $2,535,519 for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on October 29, 2015,” for “per fiscal year and up to $26,652,055 for the period beginning on October 1, 2014, and ending on July 31, 2015,”.

[Pub. L. 114–21](/us/pl/114/21) substituted “and up to $26,652,055 for the period beginning on October 1, 2014, and ending on July 31, 2015,” for “and up to $21,304,110 for the period beginning on October 1, 2014, and ending on May 31, 2015,”.

Subsec. (g)(6). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 5508(b)(4)](/us/pl/114/94/s5508/b/4), amended [Pub. L. 112–141, § 32921(b)](/us/pl/112/141/s32921/b). See 2012 Amendment note below.

2014—Subsec. (g)(5)(B). [Pub. L. 113–159](/us/pl/113/159) inserted “and up to $21,304,110 for the period beginning on October 1, 2014, and ending on May 31, 2015,” after “per fiscal year”.

2012—Subsec. (g)(1). [Pub. L. 112–141, § 32102(a)](/us/pl/112/141/s32102/a), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall require, by regulation, each owner and each operator granted new operating authority, after the date on which section 31148(b) is first implemented, to undergo a safety review within the first 18 months after the owner or operator, as the case may be, begins operations under such authority.”

Subsec. (g)(5)(B). [Pub. L. 112–141, § 112002(d)](/us/pl/112/141/s112002/d), struck out “and up to $21,750,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2011, and ending on June 30, 2012,” after “year”.

[Pub. L. 112–141, § 32603(e)](/us/pl/112/141/s32603/e), amended subpar. (B) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall set aside from amounts made available by section 31104(a) up to $29,000,000 per fiscal year for audits of new entrant motor carriers conducted pursuant to this paragraph.”

[Pub. L. 112–140](/us/pl/112/140), §§ 1(c), 202(e), temporarily substituted “and up to $22,040,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2011, and ending on July 6, 2012,” for “and up to $21,750,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2011, and ending on June 30, 2012,”. See Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note below.

[Pub. L. 112–102](/us/pl/112/102) substituted “and up to $21,750,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2011, and ending on June 30, 2012,” for “and up to $14,500,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2011, and ending on March 31, 2012,”.

Subsec. (g)(6). [Pub. L. 112–141, § 32921(b)](/us/pl/112/141/s32921/b), as amended by [Pub. L. 114–94, § 5508(b)(4)](/us/pl/114/94/s5508/b/4), added par. (6).

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 112–141, § 32202](/us/pl/112/141/s32202), added subsec. (h).

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 112–141, § 32707(a)](/us/pl/112/141/s32707/a), added subsec. (i).

2011—Subsec. (g)(5)(B). [Pub. L. 112–30](/us/pl/112/30) substituted “fiscal year and up to $14,500,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2011, and ending on March 31, 2012,” for “fiscal year”.

[Pub. L. 112–5](/us/pl/112/5) struck out “(and up to $12,315,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011)” after “year”.

2010—Subsec. (g)(5)(B). [Pub. L. 111–322](/us/pl/111/322) substituted “(and up to $12,315,000 for the period beginning October 1, 2010, and ending on March 4, 2011)” for “(and up to $7,310,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010)”.

[Pub. L. 111–147](/us/pl/111/147) inserted “(and up to $7,310,000 for the period beginning on October 1, 2010, and ending on December 31, 2010)” after “fiscal year”.

2008—[Pub. L. 110–244](/us/pl/110/244) amended [Pub. L. 109–59](/us/pl/109/59), §§ 4107(b), 4114(c)(1), 7112. See 2005 Amendment notes below.

2005—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 4114(a)](/us/pl/109/59/s4114/a), reenacted heading without change and amended text of subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall—

“(1) determine whether an owner or operator is fit to operate safely commercial motor vehicles;

“(2) periodically update such safety fitness determinations;

“(3) make such final safety fitness determinations readily available to the public; and

“(4) prescribe by regulation penalties for violations of this section consistent with section 521.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 7112(c)](/us/pl/109/59/s7112/c), which directed amendment of this section by redesignating the second subsec. (c), relating to safety reviews of new operators, as (f), was repealed by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(b)(2)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/b/2).

[Pub. L. 109–59, § 4107(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/59/s4107/b/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/b/1), redesignated subsec. (c), relating to safety reviews of new operators, as (f).

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 7112(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/59/s7112/b/1), substituted “section 521(b)(5)(A)” for “sections 521(b)(5)(A) and 5113”.

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 7112(b)(2)](/us/pl/109/59/s7112/b/2), inserted at end “A violation of this paragraph by an owner or operator transporting hazardous material shall be considered a violation of chapter 51, and shall be subject to the penalties in sections 5123 and 5124.”

Subsec. (c)(5). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 4114(b)](/us/pl/109/59/s4114/b), added par. (5).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 4114(c)(2)](/us/pl/109/59/s4114/c/2), added subsec. (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).

[Pub. L. 109–59, § 4114(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/59/s4114/c/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(c)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/c), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 4114(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/59/s4114/c/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(c)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/c), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e). Former subsec. (e) redesignated (f).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 7112(c)](/us/pl/109/59/s7112/c), which directed amendment of this section by redesignating the second subsec. (c), relating to safety reviews of new operators, as (f), was repealed by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(b)(2)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/b/2).

[Pub. L. 109–59, § 4114(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/59/s4114/c/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(c)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/c), redesignated subsec. (e) as (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).

[Pub. L. 109–59, § 4107(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/59/s4107/b/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/b/1), redesignated subsec. (c), relating to safety reviews of new operators, as (f).

Subsec. (f)(5). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 4107(b)(2)](/us/pl/109/59/s4107/b/2), as amended by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/b/1), added par. (5).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 109–59, § 4114(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/59/s4114/c/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 110–244, § 301(c)](/us/pl/110/244/s301/c), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g).

1999—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 106–159](/us/pl/106/159) added subsec. (c) relating to safety reviews of new operators.

1998—[Pub. L. 105–178](/us/pl/105/178) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally, substituting, in subsec. (a), general provisions for provisions relating to procedure and, in subsec. (b), provisions relating to procedure for provisions relating to findings and action on registrations, and adding subsecs. (c) to (e).

1995—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 104–88, § 104(g)(1)](/us/pl/104/88/s104/g/1)–(3), in first sentence substituted “The Secretary” for “In cooperation with the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Secretary” and “section 13902” for “sections 10922 and 10923” and in subpar. (C) struck out “and the Commission” after “Secretary”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–88, § 104(g)(4)](/us/pl/104/88/s104/g/4), added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b) which read as follows: “Findings and Action on Applications.—The Commission shall—

“(1) find an applicant for authority to operate as a motor carrier unfit if the applicant does not meet the safety fitness requirements established under subsection (a) of this section; and

“(2) deny the application.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by [section 5105(d) of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s5105/d) effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as a note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.

Amendment by [section 5101(e)(1) of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s5101/e/1) effective Oct. 1, 2016, see [section 5101(f) of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s5101/f), set out as a note under [section 31102 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s31102).

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title V, § 5508(b)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tV/s5508/b), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1554](/us/stat/129/1554), provided that the amendment made by section 5508(b)(4) is effective as of July 6, 2012, and as if included in [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) as enacted.

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by sections 32202, 32603(e), and 32707(a) effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.

[Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, § 32102(b)](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII/s32102/b), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 778](/us/stat/126/778), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [see section 3(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141), set out as notes under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways].”

Amendment by [section 32921(b) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s32921/b) effective 2 years after the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141), see [section 32921(c) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s32921/c), set out as an Effective Date of 2012 Amendment note under [section 13902 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s13902).

Amendment by [section 112002(d) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s112002/d) effective July 1, 2012, see [section 114001 of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s114001), set out as a note under [section 5305 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s5305).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–140](/us/pl/112/140) to cease to be effective on July 6, 2012, with text as amended by [Pub. L. 112–140](/us/pl/112/140) to revert back to read as it did on the day before June 29, 2012, and amendments by [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) to be executed as if [Pub. L. 112–140](/us/pl/112/140) had not been enacted, see [section 1(c) of Pub. L. 112–140](/us/pl/112/140/s1/c), set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 110–244](/us/pl/110/244) effective as of the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 109–59](/us/pl/109/59) (Aug. 10, 2005) and to be treated as included in [Pub. L. 109–59](/us/pl/109/59) as of that date, and provisions of [Pub. L. 109–59](/us/pl/109/59), as in effect on the day before June 6, 2008, that are amended by [Pub. L. 110–244](/us/pl/110/244) to be treated as not enacted, see [section 121(b) of Pub. L. 110–244](/us/pl/110/244/s121/b), set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.

#### Effective Date of 1995 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88) effective Jan. 1, 1996, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).

#### Deemed References to Chapters 509 and 511 of Title 51

General references to “this title” deemed to refer also to chapters 509 and 511 of Title 51, National and Commercial Space Programs, see [section 4(d)(8) of Pub. L. 111–314](/us/pl/111/314/s4/d/8), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s101).

#### Improving Federal-State Motor Carrier Safety Enforcement Coordination

[Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title III, § 23014](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tIII/s23014), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 773](/us/stat/135/773), provided that: “(a) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Covered state.—The term ‘covered State’ means a State that receives Federal funds under the motor carrier safety assistance program established under [section 31102 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s31102), United States Code. “(2) Imminent hazard.—The term ‘imminent hazard’ has the same meaning as in [section 521 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s521), United States Code. “(b) Review and Enforcement of State Out-of-service Orders.—As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 15, 2021], the Secretary [of Transportation] shall publish in the Federal Register a process under which the Secretary shall review each out-of-service order issued by a covered State in accordance with [section 31144(d) of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s31144/d), United States Code, by not later than 30 days after the date on which the out-of-service order is submitted to the Secretary by the covered State. “(c) Review and Enforcement of State Imminent Hazard Determinations.—“(1) In general.—As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a process under which the Secretary shall review imminent hazard determinations made by covered States. “(2) Enforcement.—On reviewing an imminent hazard determination under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall pursue enforcement under [section 521 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s521), United States Code, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.”

#### High Risk Carrier Reviews

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title V, § 5305(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tV/s5305/a), (b), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1544](/us/stat/129/1544), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Secretary [of Transportation] shall ensure that a review is completed on each motor carrier that demonstrates through performance data that it poses the highest safety risk. At a minimum, a review shall be conducted whenever a motor carrier is among the highest risk carriers for 4 consecutive months. “(b) Report.—The Secretary shall post on a public Web site a report on the actions the Secretary has taken to comply with this section, including the number of high risk carriers identified and the high risk carriers reviewed.”

[Pub. L. 109–59, title IV, § 4138](/us/pl/109/59/tIV/s4138), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1745](/us/stat/119/1745), which required completion of high risk carrier compliance reviews, was repealed by [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title V, § 5305(c)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tV/s5305/c), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1544](/us/stat/129/1544).

#### Minimum Requirements

[Pub. L. 106–159, title II, § 210(b)](/us/pl/106/159/tII/s210/b), Dec. 9, 1999, [113 Stat. 1765](/us/stat/113/1765), as amended by [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, § 32101(c)](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII/s32101/c), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 777](/us/stat/126/777), provided that: “The Secretary shall initiate a rulemaking to establish minimum requirements for applicant motor carriers, including foreign motor carriers, seeking Federal interstate operating authority to ensure applicant carriers are knowledgeable about applicable Federal motor carrier safety standards. As part of that rulemaking, the Secretary shall establish a proficiency examination for applicant motor carriers as well as other requirements to ensure such applicants understand applicable safety regulations, commercial regulations, and provisions of subpart H of part 37 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulations before being granted operating authority.”
