---
title: "§ 287d–1. National data system and clearinghouse on research on women’s health"
identifier: "USC-T42-S287d–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section287d–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 486A, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title I, § 141(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/43/tI/s141/a/3), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 138](/us/stat/107/138).)"
---
# § 287d–1. National data system and clearinghouse on research on women’s health

##### § 287d–1. National data system and clearinghouse on research on women’s health

(a) Data system

(1) The Director of NIH, in consultation with the Director of the Office and the Director of the National Library of Medicine, shall establish a data system for the collection, storage, analysis, retrieval, and dissemination of information regarding research on women’s health that is conducted or supported by the national research institutes. Information from the data system shall be available through information systems available to health care professionals and providers, researchers, and members of the public.

(2) The data system established under paragraph (1) shall include a registry of clinical trials of experimental treatments that have been developed for research on women’s health. Such registry shall include information on subject eligibility criteria, sex, age, ethnicity or race, and the location of the trial site or sites. Principal investigators of such clinical trials shall provide this information to the registry within 30 days after it is available. Once a trial has been completed, the principal investigator shall provide the registry with information pertaining to the results, including potential toxicities or adverse effects associated with the experimental treatment or treatments evaluated.

(b) Clearinghouse The Director of NIH, in consultation with the Director of the Office and with the National Library of Medicine, shall establish, maintain, and operate a program to provide information on research and prevention activities of the national research institutes that relate to research on women’s health.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 486A, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title I, § 141(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/43/tI/s141/a/3), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 138](/us/stat/107/138).)*
