---
title: "§ 12102. Authorization of grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20102](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20102), as added [Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101[(a)]](/us/pl/104/134/tI/s101) [title I, § 114(a)], Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/110/1321), 1321–15; renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a)](/us/pl/104/140/s1/a), May 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1327](/us/stat/110/1327); amended [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s104/a), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 669](/us/stat/122/669).)"
---
# § 12102. Authorization of grants

##### § 12102. Authorization of grants

(a) In general The Attorney General shall provide Violent Offender Incarceration grants under [section 12103 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12103) and Truth-in-Sentencing Incentive grants under [section 12104 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12104) to eligible States—

(1) to build or expand correctional facilities to increase the bed capacity for the confinement of persons convicted of a part 1 violent crime or adjudicated delinquent for an act which if committed by an adult, would be a part 1 violent crime;

(2) to build or expand temporary or permanent correctional facilities, including facilities on military bases, prison barges, and boot camps, for the confinement of convicted nonviolent offenders and criminal aliens, for the purpose of freeing suitable existing prison space for the confinement of persons convicted of a part 1 violent crime;

(3) to build or expand jails; and

(4) to carry out any activity referred to in [section 10631(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10631/b).

(b) Regional compacts

(1) In general Subject to paragraph (2), States may enter into regional compacts to carry out this part. Such compacts shall be treated as States under this part.

(2) Requirement To be recognized as a regional compact for eligibility for a grant under section 12103 or 12104 of this title, each member State must be eligible individually.

(3) Limitation on receipt of funds No State may receive a grant under this part both individually and as part of a compact.

(c) Applicability Notwithstanding the eligibility requirements of [section 12104 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12104), a State that certifies to the Attorney General that, as of April 26, 1996, such State has enacted legislation in reliance on this part, as enacted on September 13, 1994, and would in fact qualify under those provisions, shall be eligible to receive a grant for fiscal year 1996 as though such State qualifies under [section 12104 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12104).

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20102](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20102), as added [Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101[(a)]](/us/pl/104/134/tI/s101) [title I, § 114(a)], Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/110/1321), 1321–15; renumbered title I, [Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a)](/us/pl/104/140/s1/a), May 2, 1996, [110 Stat. 1327](/us/stat/110/1327); amended [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s104/a), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 669](/us/stat/122/669).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13702 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13702), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 20102 of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s20102), title II, Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1816](/us/stat/108/1816), related to Truth in Sentencing Incentive Grants prior to the general amendment of subtitle A of title II of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) by [Pub. L. 104–134](/us/pl/104/134).

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) added par. (4).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction of 2008 Amendment

For construction of amendments by [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) and requirements for grants made under such amendments, see [section 60504 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s60504).
