---
title: "§ 1320a–3a. Disclosure requirements for other providers under part B of Medicare"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1320a–3a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1320a–3a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XI, § 1124A, as added [Pub. L. 101–508, title IV, § 4164(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/508/tIV/s4164/b/1), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–101](/us/stat/104/1388-101); amended [Pub. L. 103–432, title I, § 147(f)(7)(A)(i)](/us/pl/103/432/tI/s147/f/7/A/i), Oct. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 4432](/us/stat/108/4432); [Pub. L. 105–33, title IV, § 4313(b)](/us/pl/105/33/tIV/s4313/b), (c), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 388](/us/stat/111/388).)"
---
# § 1320a–3a. Disclosure requirements for other providers under part B of Medicare

##### § 1320a–3a. Disclosure requirements for other providers under part B of Medicare

(a) Disclosure required to receive payment No payment may be made under part B of subchapter XVIII for items or services furnished by any disclosing part B provider unless such provider has provided the Secretary with full and complete information—

(1) on the identity of each person with an ownership or control interest in the provider or in any subcontractor (as defined by the Secretary in regulations) in which the provider directly or indirectly has a 5 percent or more ownership interest;

(2) with respect to any person identified under paragraph (1) or any managing employee of the provider—

(A) on the identity of any other entities providing items or services for which payment may be made under subchapter XVIII with respect to which such person or managing employee is a person with an ownership or control interest at the time such information is supplied or at any time during the 3-year period ending on the date such information is supplied, and

(B) as to whether any penalties, assessments, or exclusions have been assessed against such person or managing employee under section 1320a–7, 1320a–7a, or 1320a–7b of this title; and

(3) including the employer identification number (assigned pursuant to section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) and social security account number (assigned under [section 405(c)(2)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s405/c/2/B)) of the disclosing part B provider and any person, managing employee, or other entity identified or described under paragraph (1) or (2).

(b) Updates to information supplied A disclosing part B provider shall notify the Secretary of any changes or updates to the information supplied under subsection (a) not later than 180 days after such changes or updates take effect.

(c) Verification

(1) Transmittal by HHS The Secretary shall transmit—

supplied to the Secretary pursuant to subsection (a)(3) or section 1320a–3(c) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title to the extent necessary for verification of such information in accordance with paragraph (2).

(A) to the Commissioner of Social Security information concerning each social security account number (assigned under [section 405(c)(2)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s405/c/2/B)), and

(B) to the Secretary of the Treasury information concerning each employer identification number (assigned pursuant to section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986),

(2) Verification The Commissioner of Social Security and the Secretary of the Treasury shall verify the accuracy of, or correct, the information supplied by the Secretary to such official pursuant to paragraph (1), and shall report such verifications or corrections to the Secretary.

(3) Fees for verification The Secretary shall reimburse the Commissioner and Secretary of the Treasury, at a rate negotiated between the Secretary and such official, for the costs incurred by such official in performing the verification and correction services described in this subsection.

(d) Definitions For purposes of this section—

(1) the term “disclosing part B provider” means any entity receiving payment on an assignment-related basis (or, for purposes of subsection (a)(3), any entity receiving payment) for furnishing items or services for which payment may be made under part B of subchapter XVIII, except that such term does not include an entity described in [section 1320a–3(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–3/a/2);

(2) the term “managing employee” means, with respect to a provider, a person described in [section 1320a–5(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–5/b); and

(3) the term “person with an ownership or control interest” means, with respect to a provider—

(A) a person described in [section 1320a–3(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–3/a/3), or

(B) a person who has one of the 5 largest direct or indirect ownership or control interests in the provider.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XI, § 1124A, as added [Pub. L. 101–508, title IV, § 4164(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/508/tIV/s4164/b/1), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–101](/us/stat/104/1388-101); amended [Pub. L. 103–432, title I, § 147(f)(7)(A)(i)](/us/pl/103/432/tI/s147/f/7/A/i), Oct. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 4432](/us/stat/108/4432); [Pub. L. 105–33, title IV, § 4313(b)](/us/pl/105/33/tIV/s4313/b), (c), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 388](/us/stat/111/388).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsecs. (a)(3) and (c)(1)(B), is classified generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

[Section 1320a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–3), referred to in subsec. (c)(1), does not contain a subsec. (c).

#### Amendments

1997—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 4313(b)(1)](/us/pl/105/33/s4313/b/1), added par. (3).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 4313(c)(2)](/us/pl/105/33/s4313/c/2), added subsec. (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (d).

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 4313(b)(2)](/us/pl/105/33/s4313/b/2), inserted “(or, for purposes of subsection (a)(3), any entity receiving payment)” after “on an assignment-related basis”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 105–33, § 4313(c)(1)](/us/pl/105/33/s4313/c/1), redesignated subsec. (c) as (d).

1994—Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 103–432](/us/pl/103/432) made technical amendment to reference to subchapter XVIII of this chapter to correct reference to corresponding provision of original act.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1997 Amendment

Amendment by [section 4313(b) of Pub. L. 105–33](/us/pl/105/33/s4313/b) applicable to payment for items and services furnished more than 90 days after date of submission of report under [section 4313(d) of Pub. L. 105–33](/us/pl/105/33/s4313/d), set out as a note under [section 1320a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–3), see [section 4313(e) of Pub. L. 105–33](/us/pl/105/33/s4313/e), set out as a note under [section 1320a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–3).

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

[Pub. L. 103–432, title I, § 147(g)](/us/pl/103/432/tI/s147/g), Oct. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 4432](/us/stat/108/4432), provided that: “Except as otherwise provided in this section [amending this section and sections 1320b–5, 1395*l*, 1395p, 1395q, 1395x, 1395y, and 1395cc of this title, enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 1395*l*, 1395p, and 1395y of this title, amending provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 254b, 1395*l*, and 1395u of this title, and repealing provisions set out as a note under section 1395*l* of this title], the amendments made by this section shall take effect as if included in the enactment of OBRA–1990 [Pub L. 101–508].”

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 101–508, title IV, § 4164(b)(4)](/us/pl/101/508/tIV/s4164/b/4), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–102](/us/stat/104/1388-102), as amended by [Pub. L. 103–432, title I, § 147(f)(7)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/103/432/tI/s147/f/7/A/ii), Oct. 31, 1994, [108 Stat. 4432](/us/stat/108/4432), provided that: “The amendments made by paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) [enacting this section and amending sections 1320a–7 and 1320a–7b of this title] shall apply with respect to items or services furnished on or after— “(A) January 1, 1993, in the case of items or services furnished by a provider who, on or before the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 5, 1990], has furnished items or services for which payment may be made under part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1395j](/us/usc/t42/s1395j) et seq.]; or “(B) January 1, 1992, in the case of items or services furnished by any other provider.”

#### Report on Confidentiality of Social Security Account Numbers

Before amendment by [Pub. L. 105–33](/us/pl/105/33) may become effective, Secretary of Health and Human Services is required to submit to Congress a report on steps Secretary has taken to assure the confidentiality of social security account numbers that will be provided to Secretary, see [section 4313(d) of Pub. L. 105–33](/us/pl/105/33/s4313/d), set out as a note under [section 1320a–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–3).
