---
title: "§ 513. Use of funds for ITS activities"
identifier: "USC-T23-S513"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-09-29"
last_updated: "2025-09-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title23-section513"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "23"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–59, title V, § 5302(a)](/us/pl/109/59/tV/s5302/a), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1805](/us/stat/119/1805); amended [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title III, § 53001](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tIII/s53001), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 897](/us/stat/126/897).)"
---
# § 513. Use of funds for ITS activities

##### § 513. Use of funds for ITS activities

(a) Definitions.— In this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) Eligible entity.— The term “eligible entity” means a State or local government, tribal government, transit agency, public toll authority, metropolitan planning organization, other political subdivision of a State or local government, or a multistate or multijurisdictional group applying through a single lead applicant.

(2) Multijurisdictional group.— The term “multijurisdictional group” means a combination of State governments, local governments, metropolitan planning agencies, transit agencies, or other political subdivisions of a State that—

(A) have signed a written agreement to implement an activity that meets the grant criteria under this section; and

(B) is comprised of at least 2 members, each of whom is an eligible entity.

(b) Purpose.— The purpose of this section is to develop, administer, communicate, and promote the use of products of research, technology, and technology transfer programs.

(c) ITS Adoption.—

(1) Innovative technologies and strategies.— The Secretary shall encourage the deployment of ITS technologies that will improve the performance of the National Highway System in such areas as traffic operations, emergency response, incident management, surface transportation network management, freight management, traffic flow information, and congestion management by accelerating the adoption of innovative technologies through the use of—

(A) demonstration programs;

(B) grant funding;

(C) incentives to eligible entities; and

(D) other tools, strategies, or methods that will result in the deployment of innovative ITS technologies.

(2) Comprehensive plan.— To carry out this section, the Secretary shall develop a detailed and comprehensive plan that addresses the manner in which incentives may be adopted, as appropriate, through the existing deployment activities carried out by surface transportation modal administrations.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–59, title V, § 5302(a)](/us/pl/109/59/tV/s5302/a), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1805](/us/stat/119/1805); amended [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title III, § 53001](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tIII/s53001), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 897](/us/stat/126/897).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2012—[Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows:

“(a) In General.—For each fiscal year, not more than $250,000 of the funds made available to carry out this subtitle C of title V of the SAFETEA–LU shall be used for intelligent transportation system outreach, public relations, displays, tours, and brochures.

“(b) Applicability.—Subsection (a) shall not apply to intelligent transportation system training, scholarships, or the publication or distribution of research findings, technical guidance, or similar documents.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t23/s101).
