---
title: "§ 1795k. State and local tax exemption"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1795k"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1795k"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1934, ch. 750](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch750), title III, § 312, as added [Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VIII, § 2813(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/369/dB/tVIII/s2813/a/2), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 1206](/us/stat/98/1206).)"
---
# § 1795k. State and local tax exemption

##### § 1795k. State and local tax exemption

(a) Franchise, activities, etc., of Central Liquidity Facility; exception The Central Liquidity Facility, and its franchise, activities, capital reserves, surplus, and income, shall be exempt from all State and local taxation now or hereafter imposed, other than taxes on real property held by the Facility (to the same extent, according to its value, as other similar property held by other persons is taxed).

(b) Notes, bonds, debentures and other obligations of Central Liquidity Facility; exceptions

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the notes, bonds, debentures, and other obligations issued on behalf of the Central Liquidity Facility and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all State and local taxation now or hereafter imposed.

(2) Any obligation described in paragraph (1) shall not be exempt from State or local gift, estate, inheritance, legacy, succession, or other wealth transfer taxes.

(c) “State” defined; tax status For purposes of this section—

(1) the term “State” includes the District of Columbia; and

(2) taxes imposed by counties or municipalities, or any territory, dependency, or possession of the United States shall be treated as local taxes.

*([June 26, 1934, ch. 750](/us/act/1934-06-26/ch750), title III, § 312, as added [Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VIII, § 2813(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/369/dB/tVIII/s2813/a/2), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 1206](/us/stat/98/1206).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VIII, § 2813(c)](/us/pl/98/369/dB/tVIII/s2813/c), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 1207](/us/stat/98/1207), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending [section 1795b of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1795b) and [section 501 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501), Internal Revenue Code] shall take effect on October 1, 1979.”
