---
title: "§ 4046. Advisory board"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4046"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4046"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–412, title III, § 306](/us/pl/103/412/tIII/s306), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4249](/us/stat/108/4249); [Pub. L. 104–109, § 6(b)](/us/pl/104/109/s6/b), Feb. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 764](/us/stat/110/764); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(184)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/184), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4326](/us/stat/136/4326).)"
---
# § 4046. Advisory board

##### § 4046. Advisory board

(a) Establishment and membership Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Special Trustee shall establish an advisory board to provide advice on all matters within the jurisdiction of the Special Trustee. The advisory board shall consist of nine members, appointed by the Special Trustee after consultation with Indian tribes and appropriate Indian organizations, of which—

(1) five members shall represent trust fund account holders, including both tribal and Individual Indian Money accounts;

(2) two members shall have practical experience in trust fund and financial management;

(3) one member shall have practical experience in fiduciary investment management; and

(4) one member, from academia, shall have knowledge of general management of large organizations.

(b) Term Each member shall serve a term of two years.

(c) Chapter 10 of title 5 The advisory board shall not be subject to chapter 10 of title 5.

(d) Termination The advisory board shall terminate upon termination of the Office of Special Trustee.

*([Pub. L. 103–412, title III, § 306](/us/pl/103/412/tIII/s306), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4249](/us/stat/108/4249); [Pub. L. 104–109, § 6(b)](/us/pl/104/109/s6/b), Feb. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 764](/us/stat/110/764); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(184)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/184), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4326](/us/stat/136/4326).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “Chapter 10 of title 5” for “FACA” in heading and “chapter 10 of title 5.” for “the Federal Advisory Committee Act.” in text.

1996—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 104–109](/us/pl/104/109) substituted “advisory board” for “Advisory Board”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Appointment of New Members

[Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title I, § 133](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tI/s133), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 243](/us/stat/117/243), provided that: “Within 90 days of enactment of this Act [Feb. 20, 2003] the Special Trustee for American Indians, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Tribes, shall appoint new members to the Special Trustee Advisory Board.”
