---
title: "§ 2134. Taxation"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2134"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2134"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–181, title III, § 3](/us/pl/92/181/tIII/s3).13, Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 608](/us/stat/85/608); [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 205(e)(10)](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s205/e/10), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/99/1705); [Pub. L. 100–233, title VIII, § 805(p)](/us/pl/100/233/tVIII/s805/p), Jan. 6, 1988, [101 Stat. 1716](/us/stat/101/1716).)"
---
# § 2134. Taxation

##### § 2134. Taxation

Each bank for cooperatives and its obligations are instrumentalities of the United States and as such any and all notes, debentures, and other obligations issued by such bank shall be exempt, both as to principal and interest from all taxation (except surtaxes, estate, inheritance, and gift taxes) now or hereafter imposed by the United States or any State, territorial, or local taxing authority, except that interest on such obligations shall be subject to Federal income taxation in the hands of the holder.

*([Pub. L. 92–181, title III, § 3](/us/pl/92/181/tIII/s3).13, Dec. 10, 1971, [85 Stat. 608](/us/stat/85/608); [Pub. L. 99–205, title II, § 205(e)(10)](/us/pl/99/205/tII/s205/e/10), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1705](/us/stat/99/1705); [Pub. L. 100–233, title VIII, § 805(p)](/us/pl/100/233/tVIII/s805/p), Jan. 6, 1988, [101 Stat. 1716](/us/stat/101/1716).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–233](/us/pl/100/233) inserted before period at end “, except that interest on such obligations shall be subject to Federal income taxation in the hands of the holder”.

1985—[Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205) struck out last two sentences relating to exemption of banks for cooperatives and their property, franchises, capital, reserves, surplus, other funds, and income from Federal and non-Federal taxation except for Federal income taxation of interest on obligations of such banks and for Federal and non-Federal taxation of real and tangible personal property of such banks to same extent as similar property is taxed, and making such exemption provisions applicable only for any year or part thereof in which stock in such banks was held by the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205) effective thirty days after Dec. 23, 1985, see [section 401 of Pub. L. 99–205](/us/pl/99/205/s401), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2001).
