---
title: "§ 2501. Statement of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T20-S2501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section2501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–482, title III, § 331](/us/pl/94/482/tIII/s331), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2221](/us/stat/90/2221).)"
---
# § 2501. Statement of purpose

##### § 2501. Statement of purpose

(1) planning for the development of information on the needs for career education and career development for all individuals;

(2) planning for the promotion of a national dialogue on career education and career development designed to encourage each State and local educational agency to determine and adopt the approach best suited to the needs of the individuals served by each such agency;

(3) planning for the assessment of the status of career education and career development programs and practices, including a reassessment of the stereotyping of career opportunities by race or by sex;

(4) planning for the demonstration of the best of the current career education and career development programs and practices by planning to develop and test exemplary programs and practices using various theories, concepts, and approaches with respect to career education and through planning for a nationwide system of regional career education centers;

(5) planning for the training and retraining of persons for conducting career education and career development programs; and

(6) developing State and local plans for implementing programs designed to ensure that every person has the opportunity to gain the knowledge and skills necessary for gainful or maximum employment and for full participation in our society according to his or her ability.

*([Pub. L. 94–482, title III, § 331](/us/pl/94/482/tIII/s331), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2221](/us/stat/90/2221).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 30 days after Oct. 12, 1976, except either as specifically otherwise provided or, if not so specifically otherwise provided, effective July 1, 1976, where section provides for authorization of appropriations, see [section 532 of Pub. L. 94–482](/us/pl/94/482/s532), set out as an Effective Date of 1976 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).

#### Short Title of 1978 Amendment

[Pub. L. 95–270](/us/pl/95/270), Apr. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 220](/us/stat/92/220), which enacted sections 2566 to 2569 of this title, is known as the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs and the Everett McKinley Dirksen Congressional Leadership Research Center Assistance Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2566 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s2566) and Tables.
