---
title: "§ 17335. Actions by United States Trade and Development Agency"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17335"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17335"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 915](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s915), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1727](/us/stat/121/1727).)"
---
# § 17335. Actions by United States Trade and Development Agency

##### § 17335. Actions by United States Trade and Development Agency

(a) Assistance authorized The Director of the Trade and Development Agency shall establish or support policies that—

(1) proactively seek opportunities to fund projects that involve the utilization of clean and efficient energy technologies, including in trade capacity building and capital investment projects;

(2) where appropriate, advance the utilization of clean and efficient energy technologies, particularly to countries that have the potential for significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions; and

(3) recruit and retain individuals with appropriate expertise or experience in clean, renewable, and efficient energy technologies to identify and evaluate opportunities for projects that involve clean and efficient energy technologies and services.

(b) Report The President shall include in the annual report on the activities of the Trade and Development Agency required under [section 2421(d) of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s2421/d) a description of the activities carried out to implement this section.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 915](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s915), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1727](/us/stat/121/1727).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
