---
title: "§ 5701. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–165, § 2](/us/pl/116/165/s2), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 760](/us/stat/134/760).)"
---
# § 5701. Purposes

##### § 5701. Purposes

(1) to clarify the responsibilities of Federal, State, Tribal, and local law enforcement agencies with respect to responding to cases of missing or murdered Indians;

(2) to increase coordination and communication among Federal, State, Tribal, and local law enforcement agencies, including medical examiner and coroner offices;

(3) to empower Tribal governments with the resources and information necessary to effectively respond to cases of missing or murdered Indians; and

(4) to increase the collection of data related to missing or murdered Indian men, women, and children, regardless of where they reside, and the sharing of information among Federal, State, and Tribal officials responsible for responding to and investigating cases of missing or murdered Indians.

*([Pub. L. 116–165, § 2](/us/pl/116/165/s2), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 760](/us/stat/134/760).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 116–165](/us/pl/116/165), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 760](/us/stat/134/760), known as Savanna’s Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 116–165, § 1](/us/pl/116/165/s1), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 760](/us/stat/134/760), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter and amending sections 10452, 10461, and 20126 of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement] may be cited as ‘Savanna’s Act’.”
