---
title: "§ 1600k. Notices and existing laws"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1600k"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1600k"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–450, § 14](/us/pl/99/450/s14), Oct. 8, 1986, [100 Stat. 1136](/us/stat/100/1136).)"
---
# § 1600k. Notices and existing laws

##### § 1600k. Notices and existing laws

(a) Provisions relating to construction work, liability for damage, etc., on Mississippi River; notice to lessees

(1) Nothing in this chapter shall alter or affect in any way the provisions of [section 702c of title 33](/us/usc/t33/s702c).

(2) The Secretary shall provide notice of the provisions of [section 702c of title 33](/us/usc/t33/s702c) and this chapter to all existing and prospective lessees of lands leased by the United States and within the Colorado River Floodway.

(b) National Flood Insurance Act and National Flood Insurance Program; continuation Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, all provisions of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended [[42 U.S.C. 4001](/us/usc/t42/s4001) et seq.], and requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”) shall continue in full force and effect within areas wholly or partially within the Colorado River Floodway. Any maps or other information required to be prepared by this chapter shall be used to the maximum extent practicable to support implementation of the NFIP.

(c) National Flood Insurance Act provisions relating directly to Floodway; notice to communities affected The Secretary shall publish notice on three successive occasions in newspapers of general circulation in communities affected by the provisions of [section 4029 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4029).

*([Pub. L. 99–450, § 14](/us/pl/99/450/s14), Oct. 8, 1986, [100 Stat. 1136](/us/stat/100/1136).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, referred to in subsec. (b), is title XIII of [Pub. L. 90–448](/us/pl/90/448), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 572](/us/stat/82/572), which is classified principally to chapter 50 (§ 4001 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4001 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4001) and Tables.
