---
title: "§ 7109b. Presidential Award for Extraordinary Efforts To Combat Trafficking in Persons"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7109b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7109b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–386, div. A, § 112B](/us/pl/106/386/dA/s112B), as added [Pub. L. 110–457, title I, § 109](/us/pl/110/457/tI/s109), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5051](/us/stat/122/5051); amended [Pub. L. 117–347, title I, § 105(d)(2)](/us/pl/117/347/tI/s105/d/2), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6204](/us/stat/136/6204).)"
---
# § 7109b. Presidential Award for Extraordinary Efforts To Combat Trafficking in Persons

##### § 7109b. Presidential Award for Extraordinary Efforts To Combat Trafficking in Persons

(a) Establishment of award The President is authorized to establish an award, to be known as the “Presidential Award for Extraordinary Efforts To Combat Trafficking in Persons”, for extraordinary efforts to combat trafficking in persons. To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary of State shall present the award annually to not more than 5 individuals or organizations, including—

(1) individuals who are United States citizens or foreign nationals; and

(2) United States or foreign nongovernmental organizations.

(b) Selection The President shall establish procedures for selecting recipients of the award authorized under subsection (a).

(c) Ceremony The Secretary of State shall host an annual ceremony for recipients of the award authorized under subsection (a) as soon as practicable after the date on which the Secretary submits to Congress the report required under [section 7107(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7107/b/1). The Secretary of State may pay the travel costs of each recipient and a guest of each recipient who attends the ceremony.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated, for each of the fiscal years 2022 through 2027, such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 106–386, div. A, § 112B](/us/pl/106/386/dA/s112B), as added [Pub. L. 110–457, title I, § 109](/us/pl/110/457/tI/s109), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5051](/us/stat/122/5051); amended [Pub. L. 117–347, title I, § 105(d)(2)](/us/pl/117/347/tI/s105/d/2), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6204](/us/stat/136/6204).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–347](/us/pl/117/347) substituted “2022 through 2027” for “2008 through 2011”.
