---
title: "§ 2738. Property loss: reimbursement of members for certain losses of household effects caused by hostile action"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2738"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2738"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title V, § 557(a)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tV/s557/a), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/108/2775).)"
---
# § 2738. Property loss: reimbursement of members for certain losses of household effects caused by hostile action

##### § 2738. Property loss: reimbursement of members for certain losses of household effects caused by hostile action

(a) Authority To Reimburse.— The Secretary concerned may reimburse a member of the armed forces in an amount not more than $100,000 for a loss described in subsection (b).

(b) Covered Losses.— This section applies with respect to a loss of household effects sustained during a move made incident to a change of permanent station when, as determined by the Secretary, the loss was caused by a hostile action incident to war or a warlike action by a military force.

(c) Limitation.— The Secretary may provide reimbursement under this section for a loss described in subsection (b) only to the extent that the loss is not reimbursed under insurance or under the authority of another provision of law.

(d) Applicability of Other Authorities and Requirements.— Subsections (b), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of [section 2733 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2733) shall apply to a request for a reimbursement under this section as if the request were a claim against the United States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title V, § 557(a)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tV/s557/a), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2775](/us/stat/108/2775).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title V, § 557(c)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tV/s557/c), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2776](/us/stat/108/2776), provided that: “(1) [Section 2738 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2738), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), applies with respect to losses incurred after June 30, 1990. “(2) In the case of a loss incurred after June 30, 1990, and before the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 1994], a request for reimbursement shall be filed with the Secretary of the military department concerned not later than two years after such date of enactment.”
