---
title: "§ 44810. Airport safety and airspace hazard mitigation and enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44810"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44810"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 383(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s383/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3321](/us/stat/132/3321); amended [Pub. L. 118–15, div. B, title II, § 2202(d)](/us/pl/118/15/dB/tII/s2202/d), Sept. 30, 2023, [137 Stat. 83](/us/stat/137/83); [Pub. L. 118–34, title I, § 102(d)](/us/pl/118/34/tI/s102/d), Dec. 26, 2023, [137 Stat. 1113](/us/stat/137/1113); [Pub. L. 118–41, title I, § 102(d)](/us/pl/118/41/tI/s102/d), Mar. 8, 2024, [138 Stat. 21](/us/stat/138/21); [Pub. "
---
# § 44810. Airport safety and airspace hazard mitigation and enforcement

##### § 44810. Airport safety and airspace hazard mitigation and enforcement

(a) Coordination.— The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall work with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of other relevant Federal departments and agencies for the purpose of ensuring that technologies or systems that are developed, tested, or deployed by Federal departments and agencies to detect and mitigate potential risks posed by errant or hostile unmanned aircraft system operations do not adversely impact or interfere with safe airport operations, navigation, air traffic services, or the safe and efficient operation of the national airspace system.

(b) Plan.—

(1) In general.— The Administrator shall develop a plan for the certification, permitting, authorizing, or allowing of the deployment of technologies or systems for the detection and mitigation of unmanned aircraft systems.

(2) Contents.— The plan shall provide for the development of policies, procedures, or protocols that will allow appropriate officials of the Federal Aviation Administration to utilize such technologies or systems to take steps to detect and mitigate potential airspace safety risks posed by unmanned aircraft system operations.

(3) Aviation rulemaking committee.— The Administrator shall charter an aviation rulemaking committee to make recommendations for such a plan and any standards that the Administrator determines may need to be developed with respect to such technologies or systems. The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) 11 See References in Text note below. shall not apply to an aviation rulemaking committee chartered under this paragraph.

(4) Non-delegation.— The plan shall not delegate any authority granted to the Administrator under this section to other Federal, State, local, territorial, or tribal agencies, or an airport sponsor, as defined in [section 47102 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s47102), United States Code.

(c) Airspace Hazard Mitigation Program.— In order to test and evaluate technologies or systems that detect and mitigate potential aviation safety risks posed by unmanned aircraft, the Administrator shall deploy such technologies or systems at 5 airports, including 1 airport that ranks in the top 10 of the FAA’s most recent Passenger Boarding Data, and any other location the Administrator determines appropriate.

(d) Authority.— Under the testing and evaluation in subsection (c), the Administrator shall use unmanned aircraft detection and mitigation systems to detect and mitigate the unauthorized operation of an unmanned aircraft that poses a risk to aviation safety.

(e) Aip Funding Eligibility.— Upon the certification, permitting, authorizing, or allowing of such technologies and systems that have been successfully tested under this section, an airport sponsor may apply for a grant under subchapter I of chapter 471 to purchase an unmanned aircraft detection and mitigation system. For purposes of this subsection, purchasing an unmanned aircraft detection and mitigation system shall be considered airport development (as defined in section 47102).

(f) Briefing.— The Administrator shall annually brief the appropriate committees of Congress, including the Committee on Judiciary 22 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, on the implementation of this section.

(g) Applicability of Other Laws.— [Section 46502 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s46502), [section 32 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s32), United States Code (commonly known as the Aircraft Sabotage Act), [section 1031 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1031), United States Code (commonly known as the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986),^1 sections 2510–2522 of title 18, United States Code (commonly known as the Wiretap Act), and sections 3121–3127 of title 18, United States Code (commonly known as the Pen/Trap Statute), shall not apply to activities authorized by the Administrator pursuant to subsection 33 So in original. Probably should be “subsections”. (c) and (d).

(h) Sunset.— This section ceases to be effective September 30, 2028.

(i) Non-delegation.— The Administrator shall not delegate any authority granted to the Administrator under this section to other Federal, State, local, territorial, or tribal agencies, or an airport sponsor, as defined in [section 47102 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s47102), United States Code. The Administrator may partner with other Federal agencies under this section, subject to any restrictions contained in such agencies’ authority to operate counter unmanned aircraft systems.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 383(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s383/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3321](/us/stat/132/3321); amended [Pub. L. 118–15, div. B, title II, § 2202(d)](/us/pl/118/15/dB/tII/s2202/d), Sept. 30, 2023, [137 Stat. 83](/us/stat/137/83); [Pub. L. 118–34, title I, § 102(d)](/us/pl/118/34/tI/s102/d), Dec. 26, 2023, [137 Stat. 1113](/us/stat/137/1113); [Pub. L. 118–41, title I, § 102(d)](/us/pl/118/41/tI/s102/d), Mar. 8, 2024, [138 Stat. 21](/us/stat/138/21); [Pub. L. 118–63, title IX, § 904](/us/pl/118/63/tIX/s904), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1341](/us/stat/138/1341).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is [Pub. L. 92–463](/us/pl/92/463), Oct. 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 770](/us/stat/86/770), which was set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and was substantially repealed and restated in chapter 10 (§ 1001 et seq.) of Title 5 by [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286), §§ 3(a), 7, Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4197](/us/stat/136/4197), 4361. For disposition of sections of the Act into chapter 10 of Title 5, see Disposition Table preceding [section 101 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s101).

The Aircraft Sabotage Act, referred to in subsec. (g), is part B (§§ 2011–2015) of chapter XX of title II of [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2187](/us/stat/98/2187). Section 2013(b) of the Act generally amended [section 32 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s32), Crimes and Criminal Procedure. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1984 Amendment note set out under [section 31 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s31) and Tables.

The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986, referred to in subsec. (g), is [Pub. L. 99–474, § 1](/us/pl/99/474/s1), Oct. 16, 1986, [100 Stat. 1213](/us/stat/100/1213), which amended [section 1030 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1030), Crimes and Criminal Procedure. [Section 1031 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1031) was enacted by [Pub. L. 100–700](/us/pl/100/700), known as the Major Fraud Act of 1988.

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 904(1)](/us/pl/118/63/s904/1), inserted “, and any other location the Administrator determines appropriate” after “Data”.

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 904(2)](/us/pl/118/63/s904/2), substituted “September 30, 2028” for “May 10, 2024”.

[Pub. L. 118–41](/us/pl/118/41) substituted “May 10, 2024” for “March 8, 2024”.

2023—Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 118–34](/us/pl/118/34) substituted “March 8, 2024” for “December 31, 2023”.

[Pub. L. 118–15](/us/pl/118/15) substituted “December 31, 2023” for “September 30, 2023”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Cooperation Related to Certain Counter-UAS Technology

[Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 365](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s365), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3310](/us/stat/132/3310), provided that: “In matters relating to the use of systems in the national airspace system intended to mitigate threats posed by errant or hostile unmanned aircraft system operations, the Secretary of Transportation shall consult with the Secretary of Defense to streamline deployment of such systems by drawing upon the expertise and experience of the Department of Defense in acquiring and operating such systems consistent with the safe and efficient operation of the national airspace system.”

#### Enforcement

[Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, § 372](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tIII/s372), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3312](/us/stat/132/3312), as amended by [Pub. L. 118–15, div. B, title II, § 2202(q)](/us/pl/118/15/dB/tII/s2202/q), Sept. 30, 2023, [137 Stat. 84](/us/stat/137/84); [Pub. L. 118–34, title I, § 102(q)](/us/pl/118/34/tI/s102/q), Dec. 26, 2023, [137 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/137/1114); [Pub. L. 118–41, title I, § 102(q)](/us/pl/118/41/tI/s102/q), Mar. 8, 2024, [138 Stat. 22](/us/stat/138/22), provided that: “(a) UAS Safety Enforcement.—The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall establish a pilot program to utilize available remote detection or identification technologies for safety oversight, including enforcement actions against operators of unmanned aircraft systems that are not in compliance with applicable Federal aviation laws, including regulations. “(b) Reporting.—As part of the pilot program, the Administrator shall establish and publicize a mechanism for the public and Federal, State, and local law enforcement to report suspected operation of unmanned aircraft in violation of applicable Federal laws and regulations. “(c) Report to Congress.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 [Oct. 5, 2018], and annually thereafter through the duration of the pilot program established in subsection (a), the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress [Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives] a report on the following:“(1) The number of unauthorized unmanned aircraft operations detected in restricted airspace, including in and around airports, together with a description of such operations. “(2) The number of enforcement cases brought by the Federal Aviation Administration or other Federal agencies for unauthorized operation of unmanned aircraft detected through the program, together with a description of such cases. “(3) Recommendations for safety and operational standards for unmanned aircraft detection and mitigation systems. “(4) Recommendations for any legislative or regulatory changes related to mitigation or detection or identification of unmanned aircraft systems. “(d) Sunset.—The pilot program established in subsection (a) shall terminate on May 10, 2024. “(e) Civil Penalties.— [Amended [section 46301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s46301).] “(f) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Administrator to pursue an enforcement action for a violation of this subtitle or any other applicable provision of aviation safety law or regulation using remote detection or identification or other technology following the sunset of the pilot program.”
