---
title: "§ 6716. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T40-S6716"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section6716"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/116/1198).)"
---
# § 6716. Reports

##### § 6716. Reports

(a) Reports to President and Congress.— The Administrator of General Services shall transmit comprehensive and detailed reports of the Administrator’s operations, activities, and accomplishments under this subchapter to the President and Congress. The Administrator shall transmit a report to the President each January and to the President and Congress at other times that the Administrator considers desirable.

(b) Protection and Enhancement of Significant Historic and Architectural Values.— A report under subsection (a) shall include a detailed discussion of the actions the Administrator has taken in the reporting period to protect and enhance the significant historic and architectural values of structures within the boundaries of the Administrator’s jurisdiction under this subchapter and shall indicate similar actions the Administrator plans to take and issues the Administrator anticipates dealing with during the upcoming fiscal year related to historic and architectural preservation. The report shall indicate the degree to which public concern has been considered and incorporated into decisions the Administrator made relative to historic and architectural preservation.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/116/1198).)*

In subsection (a), the text of 40:880(b) is omitted as obsolete. The requirement that a report be transmitted to Congress each January is eliminated pursuant to section 3003 of the Federal Reports Elimination and Sunset Act of 1995 ([31 U.S.C. 1113](/us/usc/t31/s1113) note). See, also, page 205 of House Document No. 103–7.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6716(a) | 40:880(a). | Pub. L. 92–578, § 11(a), Oct. 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1274; Pub. L. 98–141, § 8(d), Oct. 31, 1983, 97 Stat. 910. |
|  | 40:880(b). | Pub. L. 92–578, § 11(b), (c), as added Pub. L. 98–141, § 8(d), Oct. 31, 1983, 97 Stat. 910. |
| 6716(b) | 40:880(c). |  |
