---
title: "§ 5201. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T20-S5201"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section5201"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–454, § 2](/us/pl/101/454/s2), Oct. 24, 1990, [104 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/104/1063).)"
---
# § 5201. Purposes

##### § 5201. Purposes

(1) to provide a permanent endowment for the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program;

(2) to honor Dwight D. Eisenhower for his character, courage, and patriotism, and for his leadership based on moral integrity and trust;

(3) to pay tribute to President Eisenhower’s leadership in war and peace, through his diverse understanding of history, practical affairs, and the hearts of humankind;

(4) to address America’s need for the best possible higher education of its young talent for a competitive world which shares a common and endangered environment;

(5) to advance the network of friendship and trust already established in President Eisenhower’s name, so that it may continue to grow to the imminent challenges of the 21st century;

(6) to complete Dwight David Eisenhower’s crusade to liberate the people’s of Europe from oppression;

(7) to deepen and expand relationships with European nations developing democracy and self-determination; and

(8) to honor President Dwight D. Eisenhower on the occasion of the centennial of his birth through permanent endowment of an established fellowship program, the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, to increase educational opportunities for young leaders in preparation for and enhancement of their professional careers, and advancement of peace through international understanding.

*([Pub. L. 101–454, § 2](/us/pl/101/454/s2), Oct. 24, 1990, [104 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/104/1063).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 101–454](/us/pl/101/454), Oct. 24, 1990, [104 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/104/1063), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 101–454, § 1](/us/pl/101/454/s1), Oct. 24, 1990, [104 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/104/1063), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, amending sections 4901, 4902, and 4904 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 4901 and 4902 of Title 22] may be cited as the ‘Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990’.”
