---
title: "§ 2241. Inspection by the Secretary of Commerce"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2241"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2241"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–353, title III, § 306(b)](/us/pl/111/353/tIII/s306/b), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3959](/us/stat/124/3959).)"
---
# § 2241. Inspection by the Secretary of Commerce

##### § 2241. Inspection by the Secretary of Commerce

(1) In general The Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, may send 1 or more inspectors to a country or facility of an exporter from which seafood imported into the United States originates. The inspectors shall assess practices and processes used in connection with the farming, cultivation, harvesting, preparation for market, or transportation of such seafood and may provide technical assistance related to such activities.

(2) Inspection report

(A) In general The Secretary of Health and Human Services, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, shall—

(i) prepare an inspection report for each inspection conducted under paragraph (1);

(ii) provide the report to the country or exporter that is the subject of the report; and

(iii) provide a 30-day period during which the country or exporter may provide a rebuttal or other comments on the findings of the report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(B) Distribution and use of report The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall consider the inspection reports described in subparagraph (A) in distributing inspection resources under [section 350j of this title](/us/usc/t21/s350j).

*([Pub. L. 111–353, title III, § 306(b)](/us/pl/111/353/tIII/s306/b), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3959](/us/stat/124/3959).)*
