---
title: "§ 4233. Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Fund"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4233"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4233"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–383, title II, § 203](/us/pl/100/383/tII/s203), Aug. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 911](/us/stat/102/911).)"
---
# § 4233. Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Fund

##### § 4233. Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Fund

(a) Establishment There is established in the Treasury of the United States the Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Fund, which shall be administered by the Secretary. The Fund shall consist of amounts appropriated to it pursuant to this subchapter.

(b) Report The Secretary shall report to the Congress, not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal year, on the financial condition of the Fund, and the results of operations of the Fund, during the preceding fiscal year and on the expected financial condition and operations of the Fund during the current fiscal year.

(c) Investment Amounts in the Fund shall be invested in accordance with [section 9702 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s9702).

(d) Termination The Secretary shall terminate the Fund 3 years after August 10, 1988, or 1 year following disbursement of all payments from the Fund, as authorized by this subchapter, whichever occurs later. On the date the Fund is terminated, all investments of amounts in the Fund shall be liquidated by the Secretary and receipts thereof deposited in the Fund and all funds remaining in the Fund shall be deposited in the miscellaneous receipts account in the Treasury.

*([Pub. L. 100–383, title II, § 203](/us/pl/100/383/tII/s203), Aug. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 911](/us/stat/102/911).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1989c–2 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Reestablishment of Fund; Use of Funds

For provisions that the Fund, if terminated pursuant to subsec. (d) of this section, is to be reestablished upon appropriation of additional funds, and restricting use of appropriated funds, see section 1(b), (c), of [Pub. L. 103–402](/us/pl/103/402), set out as a note under [section 4235 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4235).
