---
title: "§ 373. Disposal by will of allotments held under trust"
identifier: "USC-T25-S373"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section373"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1910, ch. 431, § 2](/us/act/1910-06-25/ch431/s2), [36 Stat. 856](/us/stat/36/856); [Feb. 14, 1913, ch. 55](/us/act/1913-02-14/ch55), [37 Stat. 678](/us/stat/37/678); [Pub. L. 100–153, § 2](/us/pl/100/153/s2), Nov. 5, 1987, [101 Stat. 886](/us/stat/101/886); [Pub. L. 106–462, title I, § 106(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/462/tI/s106/b/2), Nov. 7, 2000, [114 Stat. 2007](/us/stat/114/2007).)"
---
# § 373. Disposal by will of allotments held under trust

##### § 373. Disposal by will of allotments held under trust

Any persons of the age of eighteen years or older having any right, title, or interest in any allotment held under trust or other patent containing restrictions on alienation or individual Indian moneys or other property held in trust by the United States shall have the right prior to the expiration of the trust or restrictive period, and before the issuance of a fee simple patent or the removal of restrictions, to dispose of such property by will, in accordance with the Indian Land Consolidation Act [[25 U.S.C. 2201](/us/usc/t25/s2201) et seq.] or a tribal probate code approved under such Act and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior: *Provided, however*, That no will so executed shall be valid or have any force or effect unless and until it shall have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior: *Provided further*, That the Secretary of the Interior may approve or disapprove the will either before or after the death of the testator, and in case where a will has been approved and it is subsequently discovered that there has been fraud in connection with the execution or procurement of the will the Secretary of the Interior is authorized within one year after the death of the testator to cancel the approval of the will, and the property of the testator shall thereupon descend or be distributed in accordance with the laws of the State wherein the property is located: *Provided further*, That the approval of the will and the death of the testator shall not operate to terminate the trust or restrictive period, but the Secretary of the Interior may, in his discretion, cause the lands to be sold and the money derived therefrom, or so much thereof as may be necessary, used for the benefit of the heir or heirs entitled thereto, remove the restrictions, or cause patent in fee to be issued to the devisee or devisees, and pay the moneys to the legatee or legatees either in whole or in part from time to time as he may deem advisable, or use it for their benefit: *Provided also*, That this section and [section 372 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s372) shall not apply to the Five Civilized Tribes or the Osage Indians.

*([June 25, 1910, ch. 431, § 2](/us/act/1910-06-25/ch431/s2), [36 Stat. 856](/us/stat/36/856); [Feb. 14, 1913, ch. 55](/us/act/1913-02-14/ch55), [37 Stat. 678](/us/stat/37/678); [Pub. L. 100–153, § 2](/us/pl/100/153/s2), Nov. 5, 1987, [101 Stat. 886](/us/stat/101/886); [Pub. L. 106–462, title I, § 106(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/462/tI/s106/b/2), Nov. 7, 2000, [114 Stat. 2007](/us/stat/114/2007).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Land Consolidation Act, referred to in text, is title II of [Pub. L. 97–459](/us/pl/97/459), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2517](/us/stat/96/2517), which is classified generally to chapter 24 (§ 2201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2201) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2000—[Pub. L. 106–462](/us/pl/106/462) substituted “with the Indian Land Consolidation Act or a tribal probate code approved under such Act and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior:” for “with regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior:”.

1987—[Pub. L. 100–153](/us/pl/100/153) which directed amendment of this section by substituting “the age of eighteen years or older” for “the age of twenty-one years, or over” was executed by substituting the new language for “the age of twenty-one years” as the probable intent of Congress because the words “, or over” did not appear.

1913—Act Feb. 14, 1913, amended section generally.
