---
title: "§ 16341. Western Hemisphere energy cooperation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16341"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16341"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 985](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s985), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 908](/us/stat/119/908).)"
---
# § 16341. Western Hemisphere energy cooperation

##### § 16341. Western Hemisphere energy cooperation

(a) Program The Secretary shall carry out a program to promote cooperation on energy issues with countries of the Western Hemisphere.

(b) Activities Under the program, the Secretary shall fund activities to work with countries of the Western Hemisphere to—

(1) increase the production of energy supplies;

(2) improve energy efficiency; and

(3) assist in the development and transfer of energy supply and efficiency technologies that would have a beneficial impact on world energy markets.

(c) Participation by institutions of higher education To the extent practicable, the Secretary shall carry out the program under this section with the participation of institutions of higher education so as to take advantage of the acceptance of institutions of higher education by countries of the Western Hemisphere as sources of unbiased technical and policy expertise when assisting the Secretary in—

(1) evaluating new technologies;

(2) resolving technical issues;

(3) working with those countries in the development of new policies; and

(4) training policymakers, particularly in the case of institutions of higher education that involve the participation of minority students, such as—

(A) Hispanic-serving institutions; and

(B) part B institutions.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—

(1) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;

(2) $13,000,000 for fiscal year 2008; and

(3) $16,000,000 for fiscal year 2009.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 985](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s985), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 908](/us/stat/119/908).)*
