---
title: "§ 302. Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office: appointment; duties"
identifier: "USC-T44-S302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1239](/us/stat/82/1239); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/b), (c), (e), (h), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537), 2538.)"
---
# § 302. Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office: appointment; duties

##### § 302. Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office: appointment; duties

The Director of the Government Publishing Office shall appoint a suitable person to be the Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office. The Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office shall supervise the buildings occupied by the Government Publishing Office and perform any other duties required by the Director of the Government Publishing Office.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1239](/us/stat/82/1239); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/b), (c), (e), (h), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537), 2538.)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 39 ([May 27, 1908, ch. 200, § 1](/us/act/1908-05-27/ch200/s1), [35 Stat. 382](/us/stat/35/382)).

Phraseology is changed to conform with section 301 of this revision.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(h)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/h), in first sentence, struck out “, who must be a practical printer and versed in the art of bookbinding,” after “suitable person” and, in second sentence, substituted “The Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “He” and “and perform” for “, and perform” and struck out “perform the duties formerly required of the chief clerk,” after “shall” and “of him” after “required”.

[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(e)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/e), substituted “Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Deputy Public Printer” in section catchline and the first place appearing in text.

[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(c)(2)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/c/2), which directed amendment of this section by substituting “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer” in section catchline, was not executed to reflect the probable intent of Congress and the subsequent amendment by [section 1301(e)(2) of Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/e/2). See 2014 Amendment note above.

[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/c/1), substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer” in two places in text.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Government Publishing Office” substituted for “Government Printing Office” in text on authority of [section 1301(b) of Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/b), set out as a note preceding [section 301 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s301).

[Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(f)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/f), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2538](/us/stat/128/2538), provided that: “Any reference in any law other than in title 44, United States Code, or in any rule, regulation, certificate, directive, instruction, or other official paper in force on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 16, 2014] to the Deputy Public Printer shall be considered to refer and apply to the Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office.”
