---
title: "§ 504. Office of Federal Financial Management"
identifier: "USC-T31-S504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–576, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/101/576/tII/s203/a), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2841](/us/stat/104/2841).)"
---
# § 504. Office of Federal Financial Management

##### § 504. Office of Federal Financial Management

(a) There is established in the Office of Management and Budget an office to be known as the “Office of Federal Financial Management”. The Office of Federal Financial Management, under the direction and control of the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, shall carry out the financial management functions listed in [section 503(a) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s503/a).

(b) There shall be at the head of the Office of Federal Financial Management a Controller, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Controller shall be appointed from among individuals who possess—

(1) demonstrated ability and practical experience in accounting, financial management, and financial systems; and

(2) extensive practical experience in financial management in large governmental or business entities.

(c) The Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management shall be the deputy and principal advisor to the Deputy Director for Management in the performance by the Deputy Director for Management of functions described in section 503(a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–576, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/101/576/tII/s203/a), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2841](/us/stat/104/2841).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 504 was renumbered [section 506 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s506).
