---
title: "§ 2462. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S2462"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section2462"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–594, § 3](/us/pl/101/594/s3), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2976](/us/stat/104/2976).)"
---
# § 2462. Definitions

##### § 2462. Definitions

(1) The term “Antarctica” means the area south of the Antarctic Convergence as defined in [section 2432(1) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s2432/1).

(2) The term “Antarctic mineral resource activity” means prospecting, exploration, or development in Antarctica of mineral resources, but does not include scientific research within the meaning of article III of the Antarctic Treaty, done at Washington on December 1, 1959.

(3) The term “development” means any activity, including logistic support, which takes place following exploration, the purpose of which is the exploitation of specific mineral resource deposits, including processing, storage, and transport activities.

(4) The term “exploration” means any activity, including logistic support, the purpose of which is the identification or evaluation of specific mineral resource deposits. The term includes exploratory drilling, dredging, and other surface or subsurface excavations required to determine the nature and size of mineral resource deposits and the feasibility of their development.

(5) The term “mineral resources” means all nonliving natural nonrenewable resources, including fossil fuels, minerals, whether metallic or nonmetallic, but does not include ice, water, or snow.

(6) The term “person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, association, or any other entity existing or organized under the laws of the United States, or any officer, employee, agent, department, or other instrumentality of the Federal Government or of any State or political subdivision thereof.

(7) The term “prospecting” means any activity, including logistic support, the purpose of which is the identification of mineral resource potential for possible exploration and development.

(8) The term “Under Secretary” means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.

*([Pub. L. 101–594, § 3](/us/pl/101/594/s3), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 2976](/us/stat/104/2976).)*
