---
title: "§ 2641a. Transportation of American Samoa veterans on Department of Defense aircraft for certain medical care in Hawaii"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2641a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2641a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–262, title VIII, § 8121(a)](/us/pl/105/262/tVIII/s8121/a), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2332](/us/stat/112/2332); amended [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, § 1066(a)(24)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tX/s1066/a/24), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 771](/us/stat/113/771).)"
---
# § 2641a. Transportation of American Samoa veterans on Department of Defense aircraft for certain medical care in Hawaii

##### § 2641a. Transportation of American Samoa veterans on Department of Defense aircraft for certain medical care in Hawaii

(a) Transportation Authorized.— The Secretary of Defense may provide transportation on Department of Defense aircraft for the purpose of transporting any veteran specified in subsection (b) between American Samoa and the State of Hawaii if such transportation is required in order to provide hospital care to such veteran as described in that subsection.

(b) Veterans Eligible for Transport.— A veteran eligible for transport under subsection (a) is any veteran who—

(1) resides in and is located in American Samoa; and

(2) as determined by an official of the Department of Veterans Affairs designated for that purpose by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, must be transported to the State of Hawaii in order to receive hospital care to which such veteran is entitled under chapter 17 of title 38 in facilities of such Department in the State of Hawaii.

(c) Administration.—

(1) Transportation may be provided to veterans under this section only on a space-available basis.

(2) A charge may not be imposed on a veteran for transportation provided to the veteran under this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–262, title VIII, § 8121(a)](/us/pl/105/262/tVIII/s8121/a), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2332](/us/stat/112/2332); amended [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, § 1066(a)(24)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tX/s1066/a/24), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 771](/us/stat/113/771).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1999—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 1066(a)(24)(A)](/us/pl/106/65/s1066/a/24/A), struck out “, United States Code,” after “title 38”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 1066(a)(24)(B)](/us/pl/106/65/s1066/a/24/B), struck out heading and text of subsec. (d). Text read as follows: “In this section:

“(1) The term ‘veteran’ has the meaning given that term in [section 101(2) of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s101/2), United States Code.

“(2) The term ‘hospital care’ has the meaning given that term in [section 1701(5) of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s1701/5), United States Code.”
