---
title: "§ 13256. Technical and policy analysis"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13256"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13256"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title V, § 506](/us/pl/102/486/tV/s506), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2891](/us/stat/106/2891).)"
---
# § 13256. Technical and policy analysis

##### § 13256. Technical and policy analysis

(a) Requirement Not later than March 1, 1995, and March 1, 1997, the Secretary shall prepare and transmit to the President and the Congress a technical and policy analysis under this section. The Secretary shall utilize the analytical capability and authorities of the Energy Information Administration and such other offices of the Department of Energy as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(b) Purposes The technical and policy analysis prepared under this section shall be based on the best available data and information obtainable by the Secretary under [section 13253 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13253), or otherwise, and on experience under this subchapter and other provisions of law in the development and use of replacement fuels and alternative fueled vehicles, and shall evaluate—

(1) progress made in achieving the goals described in [section 13252(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13252/b/2), as modified under [section 13254 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13254);

(2) the actual and potential role of replacement fuels and alternative fueled vehicles in significantly reducing United States reliance on imported oil to the extent of the goals referred to in paragraph (1); and

(3) the actual and potential availability of various domestic replacement fuels and dedicated vehicles and dual fueled vehicles.

(c) Publication The Secretary shall publish a proposed version of each analysis under this section in the Federal Register for public comment before transmittal to the President and the Congress. Public comment received in response to such publication shall be preserved for use in rulemaking proceedings under [section 13257 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13257).

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title V, § 506](/us/pl/102/486/tV/s506), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2891](/us/stat/106/2891).)*
