---
title: "§ 3997. Distribution of information concerning benefits of subchapter"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3997"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3997"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title V, § 507, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2857](/us/stat/117/2857).)"
---
# § 3997. Distribution of information concerning benefits of subchapter

##### § 3997. Distribution of information concerning benefits of subchapter

(a) Distribution of information by Secretary concerned The Secretary concerned shall issue to servicemembers information explaining the provisions of this subchapter.

(b) Application forms The Secretary concerned shall provide application forms to servicemembers requesting relief under this subchapter.

(c) Information from Secretary of the Interior The Secretary of the Interior shall furnish to the Secretary concerned information explaining the provisions of this subchapter (other than sections 3991, 4000, and 4001 of this title) and related application forms.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title V, § 507, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2857](/us/stat/117/2857).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 567 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 507 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. V, [54 Stat. 1188](/us/stat/54/1188); [Pub. L. 102–12, § 9(22)](/us/pl/102/12/s9/22), Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 41](/us/stat/105/41), related to right to take action for perfection and defense of rights as unaffected, and affidavits and proofs, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189). See [section 3996 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3996).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
