---
title: "§ 20504. Rights and procedures"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1719](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1719), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 661](/us/stat/137/661).)"
---
# § 20504. Rights and procedures

##### § 20504. Rights and procedures

(a) In General.— Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, each officer required under [section 20501 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20501) to show cause for retention in a space force active status—

(1) shall be notified in writing, at least 30 days before the hearing of the officer’s case by a retention board, of the reasons for which the officer is being required to show cause for retention in a space force active status;

(2) shall be allowed a reasonable time, as determined by the board, to prepare the officer’s showing of cause for retention in a space force active status;

(3) shall be allowed to appear either in person or through electronic means and to be represented by counsel at proceedings before the board; and

(4) shall be allowed full access to, and shall be furnished copies of, records relevant to the officer’s case, except that the board shall withhold any record that the Secretary determines should be withheld in the interest of national security.

(b) Summary of Records Withheld in Interest of National Security.— When a record is withheld under subsection (a)(4), the officer whose case is under consideration shall, to the extent that the interest of national security permits, be furnished a summary of the record so withheld.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1719](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1719), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 661](/us/stat/137/661).)*
