---
title: "§ 7701. General"
identifier: "USC-T46-S7701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section7701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 546](/us/stat/97/546); [Pub. L. 101–380, title IV, § 4103(c)](/us/pl/101/380/tIV/s4103/c), Aug. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 511](/us/stat/104/511).)"
---
# § 7701. General

##### § 7701. General

(a) The purpose of suspension and revocation proceedings is to promote safety at sea.

(b) Licenses, certificates of registry, and merchant mariners’ documents may be suspended or revoked for acts described in [section 7703 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s7703).

(c) When a license, certificate of registry, or merchant mariner’s document has been revoked under this chapter, the former holder may be issued a new license, certificate of registry, or merchant mariner’s document only after—

(1) the Secretary decides, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, that the issuance is compatible with the requirement of good discipline and safety at sea; and

(2) the former holder provides satisfactory proof that the bases for revocation are no longer valid.

(d) The Secretary may prescribe regulations to carry out this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 546](/us/stat/97/546); [Pub. L. 101–380, title IV, § 4103(c)](/us/pl/101/380/tIV/s4103/c), Aug. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 511](/us/stat/104/511).)*

Section 7701 establishes the general purpose of suspension and revocation proceedings, which is to promote safety at sea. This section also provides the Secretary with the authority to suspend or revoke licenses, certificates, and documents, as well as the authority to issue a new license, certificate or document to an individual when the issuance is compatible with the requirements of good discipline and safety at sea. It also provides for necessary regulatory authority to carry out its purposes.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 7701 | 46:239(g) |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1990—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 101–380](/us/pl/101/380) amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) read as follows: “When a license, certificate of registry, or merchant mariner’s document has been revoked under this chapter, the former holder may be issued a new license, certificate, or document only after it has been decided, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, that the issuance is compatible with the requirements of good discipline and safety at sea.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–380](/us/pl/101/380) applicable to incidents occurring after Aug. 18, 1990, see [section 1020 of Pub. L. 101–380](/us/pl/101/380/s1020), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 2701 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s2701), Navigation and Navigable Waters.
