---
title: "§ 2892. Maintenance work order system for housing units"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2892"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2892"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX](/us/pl/116/92/dB/tXXX), §§ 3017, 3018, Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1930](/us/stat/133/1930).)"
---
# § 2892. Maintenance work order system for housing units

##### § 2892. Maintenance work order system for housing units

(a) Electronic Work Order System Required.— The Secretary of Defense shall require that each landlord of a housing unit have an electronic work order system to track all maintenance requests relating to the housing unit.

(b) Access by Department Personnel.— The Secretary of Defense shall require each landlord of a housing unit to provide access to the maintenance work order system of the landlord relating to the housing unit to the following persons:

(1) Personnel of the housing management office at the installation for which the housing unit is provided.

(2) Personnel of the installation and engineer command or center of the military department concerned.

(3) Such other personnel of the Department of Defense as the Secretary determines necessary.

(c) Access by Tenants.— The Secretary of Defense shall require each landlord of a housing unit to provide access to the maintenance work order system of the landlord relating to the housing unit to the tenant of the housing unit to permit the tenant, at a minimum, to track the status and progress of work orders for maintenance requests relating to the housing unit.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX](/us/pl/116/92/dB/tXXX), §§ 3017, 3018, Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1930](/us/stat/133/1930).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–92, § 3018](/us/pl/116/92/s3018), added subsec. (c).
