---
title: "§ 7381c–2. Broadening participation for teachers and scientists"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7381c–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7381c–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–510, div. C, title XXXI, § 3167A](/us/pl/101/510/dC/tXXXI/s3167A), as added [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10111(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10111/c/1), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1456](/us/stat/136/1456).)"
---
# § 7381c–2. Broadening participation for teachers and scientists

##### § 7381c–2. Broadening participation for teachers and scientists

(a) In general The Secretary shall—

(1) expand opportunities to increase the number of highly skilled science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) professionals working in disciplines relevant to the mission of the Department; and

(2) broaden the recruitment pool to increase participation from Historically Black Colleges or Universities (as defined in [section 7381c–3(f) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7381c–3/f)), Hispanic-serving institutions (as defined in that section), Tribal Colleges or Universities (as defined in that section), minority-serving institutions (as defined in that section), institutions in eligible jurisdictions (as defined in that section), emerging research institutions, community colleges, and scientific societies in those disciplines.

(b) Plan Not later than 1 year after August 9, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and make available to the public a plan for broadening participation of underrepresented groups in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in programs supported by the Department, including—

(1) a plan for supporting relevant Federal research award grantees and leveraging the National Science Foundation INCLUDES National Network and relevant partnerships, including partnerships maintained by other Federal research agencies;

(2) metrics for assessing the participation of underrepresented groups in programs supported by the Department;

(3) experienced and potential barriers to broadening participation of underrepresented groups in programs supported by the Department, including recommended solutions; and

(4) any other activities the Secretary determines appropriate.

(c) Authorization of appropriations Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated under [section 7381e of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7381e), not less than $2,000,000 is authorized to be appropriated each fiscal year for the activities described in this section.

*([Pub. L. 101–510, div. C, title XXXI, § 3167A](/us/pl/101/510/dC/tXXXI/s3167A), as added [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10111(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10111/c/1), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1456](/us/stat/136/1456).)*
