---
title: "§ 2791a. Laboratory-directed research and development"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2791a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2791a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–8, div. C, title III, § 308](/us/pl/111/8/dC/tIII/s308), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 626](/us/stat/123/626).)"
---
# § 2791a. Laboratory-directed research and development

##### § 2791a. Laboratory-directed research and development

Of the funds made available by the Department of Energy for activities at government-owned, contractor-operated laboratories funded in this Act or subsequent Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts, the Secretary may authorize a specific amount, not to exceed 8 percent of such funds, to be used by such laboratories for laboratory directed research and development: *Provided*, That the Secretary may also authorize a specific amount not to exceed 4 percent of such funds, to be used by the plant manager of a covered nuclear weapons production plant or the manager of the Nevada Site Office for plant or site directed research and development: *Provided further*, That notwithstanding Department of Energy order 413.2A, dated January 8, 2001, beginning in fiscal year 2006 and thereafter, all DOE laboratories may be eligible for laboratory directed research and development funding.

*([Pub. L. 111–8, div. C, title III, § 308](/us/pl/111/8/dC/tIII/s308), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 626](/us/stat/123/626).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is div. C of [Pub. L. 111–8](/us/pl/111/8), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 601](/us/stat/123/601), known as the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2009. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the appropriation act cited as the credit to this section, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Defense Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Similar Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in the following appropriation acts:

[Pub. L. 111–85, title III, § 307](/us/pl/111/85/tIII/s307), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2872](/us/stat/123/2872).

[Pub. L. 110–161, div. C, title III, § 309](/us/pl/110/161/dC/tIII/s309), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/121/1968).

[Pub. L. 109–103, title III, § 311](/us/pl/109/103/tIII/s311), Nov. 19, 2005, [119 Stat. 2280](/us/stat/119/2280).

#### Funding for Laboratory Directed Research and Development

[Pub. L. 113–76, div. D, title III, § 309](/us/pl/113/76/dD/tIII/s309), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 175](/us/stat/128/175), provided that: “Notwithstanding [section 307 of Public Law 111–85](/us/pl/111/85/s307) [listed in a table above], of the funds made available by the Department of Energy for activities at Government-owned, contractor-operated laboratories funded in this [Act] [div. D of [Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76), see Tables for classification] or any subsequent Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act for any fiscal year, the Secretary may authorize a specific amount, not to exceed 6 percent of such funds, to be used by such laboratories for laboratory directed research and development.”
