---
title: "§ 424. Establishment of pierhead or bulkhead lines in Newport Harbor, California"
identifier: "USC-T33-S424"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section424"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([July 27, 1916, ch. 260, § 3](/us/act/1916-07-27/ch260/s3), [39 Stat. 411](/us/stat/39/411); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 424. Establishment of pierhead or bulkhead lines in Newport Harbor, California

##### § 424. Establishment of pierhead or bulkhead lines in Newport Harbor, California

The Secretary of the Army is authorized and directed to fix and establish pierhead and bulkhead lines, either or both, at Newport Harbor, California, in accordance with plan dated United States Engineer Office, Los Angeles, California, March 25, 1913, and entitled “Newport Bay, California”, showing harbor lines, beyond which no piers, wharfs, bulkheads, or other works shall be extended or deposit made, except under such regulations as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Secretary of the Army.

*([July 27, 1916, ch. 260, § 3](/us/act/1916-07-27/ch260/s3), [39 Stat. 411](/us/stat/39/411); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from act July 27, 1916, popularly known as the “Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1916”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions, powers, and duties of Secretary of the Army and other offices and officers of Department of the Army under [section 401 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s401) to extent that they relate generally to location and clearances of bridges and causeways in navigable waters of United States transferred to and vested in Secretary of Transportation by [Pub. L. 89–670, § 6(g)(6)(A)](/us/pl/89/670/s6/g/6/A), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 941](/us/stat/80/941), which created Department of Transportation. [Pub. L. 97–449](/us/pl/97/449) amended [section 401 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s401) to reflect transfer made by [section 6(g)(6)(A) of Pub. L. 89–670](/us/pl/89/670/s6/g/6/A), and repealed section 6(g)(6)(A).
