---
title: "§ 232. National Institute of Mental Health; authorization of appropriation; construction; location"
identifier: "USC-T42-S232"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section232"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1946, ch. 538, § 11](/us/act/1946-07-03/ch538/s11), [60 Stat. 425](/us/stat/60/425); [June 30, 1949, ch. 288](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288), title I, § 103(a), [63 Stat. 380](/us/stat/63/380).)"
---
# § 232. National Institute of Mental Health; authorization of appropriation; construction; location

##### § 232. National Institute of Mental Health; authorization of appropriation; construction; location

There is authorized to be appropriated a sum not to exceed $7,500,000 for the erection and equipment, for the use of the Public Health Service in carrying out the provisions of this Act, of suitable and adequate hospital buildings and facilities, including necessary living quarters for personnel, and of suitable and adequate laboratory buildings and facilities, and such buildings and facilities shall be known as the National Institute of Mental Health. The Administrator of General Services is authorized to acquire, by purchase, condemnation, donation, or otherwise, a suitable and adequate site or sites, selected on the advice of the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service, in or near the District of Columbia for such buildings and facilities, and to erect thereon, furnish, and equip such buildings and facilities. The amount authorized to be appropriated in this section shall include the cost of preparation of drawings and specifications, supervision of construction, and other administrative expenses incident to the work: *Provided*, That the Administrator of General Services shall prepare the plans and specifications, make all necessary contracts, and supervise construction.

*([July 3, 1946, ch. 538, § 11](/us/act/1946-07-03/ch538/s11), [60 Stat. 425](/us/stat/60/425); [June 30, 1949, ch. 288](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288), title I, § 103(a), [63 Stat. 380](/us/stat/63/380).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [act July 3, 1946, ch. 538](/us/act/1946-07-03/ch538), [60 Stat. 421](/us/stat/60/421), known as the National Mental Health Act, which enacted sections 232 and 242a of this title, amended sections 201, 209, 210, 215, 218, 219, 241, 244, and 246 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1946 Amendment note set out under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as a part of the National Mental Health Act, and not as a part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Federal Works Agency and of all agencies thereof, together with functions of Federal Works Administrator transferred to Administrator of General Services by section 103(a) of act June 30, 1949. Both Federal Works Agency and office of Federal Works Administrator abolished by section 103(b) of that act. See Historical and Revision Notes under [section 303(b) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303/b), Public Buildings, Property, and Works. [Section 303(b) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303/b) was amended generally by [Pub. L. 109–313, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/313/s2/a/1), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1734](/us/stat/120/1734), and, as so amended, no longer relates to the Federal Works Agency and Commissioner of Public Buildings. See 2006 Amendment note under [section 303 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s303).

#### Effective Date of Transfer of Functions

Transfer of functions by act June 30, 1949, effective July 1, 1949, see section 605, formerly section 505, of [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288), [63 Stat. 403](/us/stat/63/403); renumbered by [act Sept. 5, 1950, ch. 849, § 6(a)](/us/act/1950-09-05/ch849/s6/a), (b), [64 Stat. 583](/us/stat/64/583).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Public Health Service, Surgeon General of Public Health Service, and all other officers and employees of Public Health Service, and functions of all agencies of or in Public Health Service transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, eff. June 25, 1966, 31 F.R. 8855, [80 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/80/1610), set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202).
