---
title: "§ 10706. Grant accountability"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10706"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10706"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3026](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3026), as added [Pub. L. 114–198, title VII, § 701(a)](/us/pl/114/198/tVII/s701/a), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 735](/us/stat/130/735).)"
---
# § 10706. Grant accountability

##### § 10706. Grant accountability

(a) Definition of applicable committees In this section, the term “applicable committees” means—

(1) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and

(2) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.

(b) Accountability All grants awarded by the Attorney General under this subchapter shall be subject to the following accountability provisions:

(1) Audit requirement

(A) Definition In this paragraph, the term “unresolved audit finding” means a finding in the final audit report of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice that the audited grantee has utilized grant funds for an unauthorized expenditure or otherwise unallowable cost that is not closed or resolved within 12 months after the date on which the final audit report is issued.

(B) Audit Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning after July 22, 2016, and in each fiscal year thereafter, the Inspector General of the Department of Justice shall conduct audits of recipients of grants awarded by the Attorney General under this subchapter to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds by grantees. The Inspector General shall determine the appropriate number of grantees to be audited each year.

(C) Mandatory exclusion A recipient of grant funds under this subchapter that is found to have an unresolved audit finding shall not be eligible to receive grant funds under this subchapter during the first 2 fiscal years beginning after the end of the 12-month period described in subparagraph (A).

(D) Priority In awarding grants under this subchapter, the Attorney General shall give priority to eligible applicants that did not have an unresolved audit finding during the 3 fiscal years before submitting an application for a grant under this subchapter.

(E) Reimbursement If an entity is awarded grant funds under this subchapter during the 2-fiscal-year period during which the entity is barred from receiving grants under subparagraph (C), the Attorney General shall—

(i) deposit an amount equal to the amount of the grant funds that were improperly awarded to the grantee into the General Fund of the Treasury; and

(ii) seek to recoup the costs of the repayment to the fund from the grant recipient that was erroneously awarded grant funds.

(2) Nonprofit organization requirements

(A) Definition For purposes of this paragraph and the grant programs under this subchapter, the term “nonprofit organization” means an organization that is described in [section 501(c)(3) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3) and is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such title.

(B) Prohibition A nonprofit organization that holds money in offshore accounts for the purpose of avoiding paying the tax described in [section 511(a) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s511/a) may not—

(i) be party to a contract entered into under [section 10701(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10701/b); or

(ii) receive a subaward under [section 10701(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10701/b).

(C) Disclosure Each nonprofit organization that receives a subaward or is party to a contract entered into under [section 10701(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10701/b) and uses the procedures prescribed in regulations to create a rebuttable presumption of reasonableness for the compensation of its officers, directors, trustees, and key employees, shall disclose, in the application for such contract or subaward, the process for determining such compensation, including the independent persons involved in reviewing and approving such compensation, the comparability data used, and contemporaneous substantiation of the deliberation and decision. Upon request, the Attorney General shall make the information disclosed under this subparagraph available for public inspection.

(3) Conference expenditures

(A) Limitation No amounts made available to the Attorney General under this subchapter may be used by the Attorney General, or by any State, unit of local government, or entity awarded a grant, subaward, or contract under this subchapter, to host or support any expenditure for conferences that uses more than $20,000 in funds made available by the Attorney General, unless the head of the relevant agency, bureau, or program office provides prior written authorization that the funds may be expended to host or support the conference.

(B) Written authorization Written authorization under subparagraph (A) shall include a written estimate of all costs associated with the conference, including the cost of all food, beverages, audio-visual equipment, honoraria for speakers, and entertainment.

(C) Report The Deputy Attorney General shall submit to the applicable committees an annual report on all conference expenditures approved by the Attorney General under this paragraph.

(4) Annual certification Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning after July 22, 2016, the Attorney General shall submit to the applicable committees an annual certification—

(A) indicating whether—

(i) all audits issued by the Inspector General of the Department of Justice under paragraph (1) have been completed and reviewed by the appropriate Assistant Attorney General or Director;

(ii) all mandatory exclusions required under paragraph (1)(C) have been issued; and

(iii) all reimbursements required under paragraph (1)(E) have been made; and

(B) that includes a list of any grant recipients excluded under paragraph (1) from the previous year.

(c) Preventing duplicative grants

(1) In general Before the Attorney General awards a grant to an applicant under this subchapter, the Attorney General shall compare potential grant awards with other grants awarded under this subchapter by the Attorney General to determine if duplicate grant awards are awarded for the same purpose.

(2) Report If the Attorney General awards duplicate grants under this subchapter to the same applicant for the same purpose, the Attorney General shall submit to the applicable committees a report that includes—

(A) a list of all duplicate grants awarded under this subchapter, including the total dollar amount of any duplicate grants awarded; and

(B) the reason the Attorney General awarded the duplicate grants.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3026](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3026), as added [Pub. L. 114–198, title VII, § 701(a)](/us/pl/114/198/tVII/s701/a), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 735](/us/stat/130/735).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797ff–5 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797ff–5), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
