---
title: "§ 1863. Applicability of other laws"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1863"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1863"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–471, title V, § 503](/us/pl/95/471/tV/s503), as added [Pub. L. 110–315, title IX, § 941(j)(1)](/us/pl/110/315/tIX/s941/j/1), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3464](/us/stat/122/3464).)"
---
# § 1863. Applicability of other laws

##### § 1863. Applicability of other laws

(a) In general Paragraphs (4) and (8) of subsection (a), and subsection (b), of [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1801), sections 1805, 1808, 1811, 1812 and 1813 of this title, subchapters II and III of this chapter, and title II 11 See References in Text note below. shall not apply to this subchapter.

(b) Indian self-determination and education assistance Funds made available pursuant to this subchapter shall be subject to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.).^1

(c) Election to receive A tribally controlled postsecondary career and technical institution selected for a fiscal year under [section 1862(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1862/b) may elect to receive funds pursuant to [section 1862 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1862) in accordance with an agreement between the tribally controlled postsecondary career and technical institution and the Secretary under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.)^1 if the agreement is in existence on August 14, 2008.

(d) Other assistance Eligibility for, or receipt of, assistance under this subchapter shall not preclude the eligibility of a tribally controlled postsecondary career and technical institution to receive Federal financial assistance under—

(1) any program under the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001](/us/usc/t20/s1001) et seq.);

(2) any program under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 [[20 U.S.C. 2301](/us/usc/t20/s2301) et seq.]; or

(3) any other applicable program under which a benefit is provided for—

(A) institutions of higher education;

(B) community colleges; or

(C) postsecondary educational institutions.

*([Pub. L. 95–471, title V, § 503](/us/pl/95/471/tV/s503), as added [Pub. L. 110–315, title IX, § 941(j)(1)](/us/pl/110/315/tIX/s941/j/1), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3464](/us/stat/122/3464).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Title II, referred to in subsec. (a), is title II of [Pub. L. 95–471](/us/pl/95/471), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1329](/us/stat/92/1329), known as the Navajo Community College Assistance Act of 1978, which enacted former [section 640c–1 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s640c–1), amended former [section 640c of this title](/us/usc/t25/s640c), and enacted provisions set out as notes under former sections 640a and 640c–1 of this title.

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.), referred to in subsecs. (b) and (c), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which was classified principally to subchapter II (§ 450 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

The Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is [Pub. L. 89–329](/us/pl/89/329), Nov. 8, 1965, [79 Stat. 1219](/us/stat/79/1219), which is classified generally to chapter 28 (§ 1001 et seq.) of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1001 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001) and Tables.

The Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), is [Pub. L. 88–210](/us/pl/88/210), Dec. 18, 1963, [77 Stat. 403](/us/stat/77/403), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 109–270, § 1(b)](/us/pl/109/270/s1/b), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 683](/us/stat/120/683), which is classified generally to chapter 44 (§ 2301 et seq.) of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2301 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s2301) and Tables.
