---
title: "§ 1137. Authority of the Inspector General"
identifier: "USC-T49-S1137"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section1137"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–424, § 12(a)](/us/pl/106/424/s12/a), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/114/1887); amended [Pub. L. 109–443, § 4](/us/pl/109/443/s4), Dec. 21, 2006, [120 Stat. 3299](/us/stat/120/3299); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(96)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/96), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4353](/us/stat/136/4353).)"
---
# § 1137. Authority of the Inspector General

##### § 1137. Authority of the Inspector General

(a) In General.— The Inspector General of the Department of Transportation, in accordance with the mission of the Inspector General to prevent and detect fraud and abuse, shall have authority to review only the financial management, property management, and business operations of the National Transportation Safety Board, including internal accounting and administrative control systems, to determine compliance with applicable Federal laws, rules, and regulations.

(b) Duties.— In carrying out this section, the Inspector General shall—

(1) keep the Chairman of the Board and Congress fully and currently informed about problems relating to administration of the internal accounting and administrative control systems of the Board;

(2) issue findings and recommendations for actions to address such problems; and

(3) report periodically to Congress on any progress made in implementing actions to address such problems.

(c) Access to Information.— In carrying out this section, the Inspector General may exercise authorities granted to the Inspector General under subsections (a) and (c) of [section 406 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s406).

(d) Authorizations of Appropriations.—

(1) Funding.— There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for use by the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation such sums as may be necessary to cover expenses associated with activities pursuant to the authority exercised under this section.

(2) Reimbursable agreement.— In the absence of an appropriation under this subsection for an expense referred to in paragraph (1), the Inspector General and the Board shall have a reimbursable agreement to cover such expense.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–424, § 12(a)](/us/pl/106/424/s12/a), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/114/1887); amended [Pub. L. 109–443, § 4](/us/pl/109/443/s4), Dec. 21, 2006, [120 Stat. 3299](/us/stat/120/3299); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(96)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/96), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4353](/us/stat/136/4353).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “subsections (a) and (c) of [section 406 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s406).” for “subsections (a) and (b) of section 6 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).”

2006—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–443](/us/pl/109/443) amended heading and text of subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Inspector General shall be reimbursed by the Board for the costs associated with carrying out activities under this section.”
