---
title: "§ 2207. Vice-Presidential records"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2207"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2207"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–591, § 2(a)](/us/pl/95/591/s2/a), Nov. 4, 1978, [92 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/92/2527); amended [Pub. L. 113–187, § 2(a)(2)(C)](/us/pl/113/187/s2/a/2/C), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2005](/us/stat/128/2005).)"
---
# § 2207. Vice-Presidential records

##### § 2207. Vice-Presidential records

Vice-Presidential records shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter in the same manner as Presidential records. The duties and responsibilities of the Vice President, with respect to Vice-Presidential records, shall be the same as the duties and responsibilities of the President under this chapter, except section 2208, with respect to Presidential records. The authority of the Archivist with respect to Vice-Presidential records shall be the same as the authority of the Archivist under this chapter with respect to Presidential records, except that the Archivist may, when the Archivist determines that it is in the public interest, enter into an agreement for the deposit of Vice-Presidential records in a non-Federal archival depository. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the establishment of separate archival depositories for such Vice-Presidential records.

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–591, § 2(a)](/us/pl/95/591/s2/a), Nov. 4, 1978, [92 Stat. 2527](/us/stat/92/2527); amended [Pub. L. 113–187, § 2(a)(2)(C)](/us/pl/113/187/s2/a/2/C), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2005](/us/stat/128/2005).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–187](/us/pl/113/187) inserted “, except section 2208,” after “chapter” in second sentence.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective with respect to Presidential records created during a term of office of President beginning on or after Jan. 20, 1981, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 95–591](/us/pl/95/591/s3), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2201).

#### Construction

[Pub. L. 113–187, § 2(a)(4)](/us/pl/113/187/s2/a/4), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2005](/us/stat/128/2005), provided that: “Nothing in the amendment made by paragraph (2)(C) [amending this section] shall be construed to— “(A) affect the requirement of [section 2207 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s2207), United States Code, that Vice Presidential records shall be subject to chapter 22 of that title in the same manner as Presidential records; or “(B) affect any claim of constitutionally based privilege by a President or former President with respect to a Vice Presidential record.”
