---
title: "§ 430h–14. Vicksburg National Military Park"
identifier: "USC-T16-S430h–14"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section430h–14"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3044](/us/pl/113/291/dB/tXXX/s3044), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3798](/us/stat/128/3798).)"
---
# § 430h–14. Vicksburg National Military Park

##### § 430h–14. Vicksburg National Military Park

(a) Acquisition of land

(1) In general The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) may acquire the land or any interests in land within the area identified as “Modified Core Battlefield” for the Port Gibson Unit, the Champion Hill Unit, and the Raymond Unit as generally depicted on the map entitled “Vicksburg National Military Park—Proposed Battlefield Additions”, numbered 306/100986A (4 sheets), and dated July 2012.

(2) Methods of acquisition Land may be acquired under paragraph (1) by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, except that land owned by the State of Mississippi or any political subdivisions of the State may be acquired only by donation.

(b) Availability of map The map described in subsection (a)(1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.

(c) Boundary adjustment On the acquisition of land by the Secretary under this section—

(1) the acquired land shall be added to Vicksburg National Military Park;

(2) the boundary of the Vicksburg National Military Park shall be adjusted to reflect the acquisition of the land; and

(3) the acquired land shall be administered as part of the Vicksburg National Military Park in accordance with applicable laws (including regulations).

*([Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3044](/us/pl/113/291/dB/tXXX/s3044), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3798](/us/stat/128/3798).)*
