---
title: "§ 3411. No reduction in amounts"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3411"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3411"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–477, § 12](/us/pl/102/477/s12), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/106/2304); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 12](/us/pl/115/93/s12), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/131/2034).)"
---
# § 3411. No reduction in amounts

##### § 3411. No reduction in amounts

(a) In general In no case shall the amount of Federal funds available to an Indian tribe that has in place an approved plan under this chapter be reduced as a result of—

(1) the enactment of this chapter; or

(2) the approval or implementation of a plan of an Indian tribe under this chapter.

(b) Interaction with other laws The inclusion of a program in a tribal plan under this chapter shall not—

(1) modify, limit, or otherwise affect the eligibility of the program for contracting under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 5301](/us/usc/t25/s5301) et seq.); or

(2) eliminate the applicability of any provision of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 5301](/us/usc/t25/s5301) et seq.), as the provision relates to a specific program eligible for contracting under that Act.

*([Pub. L. 102–477, § 12](/us/pl/102/477/s12), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/106/2304); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 12](/us/pl/115/93/s12), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/131/2034).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which is classified principally to chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “In no case shall the amount of Federal funds available to a tribal government involved in any demonstration project be reduced as a result of the enactment of this chapter.”
