---
title: "§ 723. Memorial addresses: preparation; distribution"
identifier: "USC-T44-S723"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section723"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1251](/us/stat/82/1251); [Pub. L. 97–51, § 101(c)](/us/pl/97/51/s101/c), Oct. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 959](/us/stat/95/959).)"
---
# § 723. Memorial addresses: preparation; distribution

##### § 723. Memorial addresses: preparation; distribution

After the final adjournment of each session of Congress, there shall be compiled, prepared, printed with illustrations, and bound in cloth in one volume, in the style, form, and manner directed by the Joint Committee on Printing, without extra compensation to any employee, the legislative proceedings of Congress and the exercises at the general memorial services held in the House of Representatives during each session relative to the death of a Member of Congress or a former Member of Congress who served as Speaker, together with all relevant memorial addresses and eulogies published in the Congressional Record during the same session of Congress, and any other matter the Joint Committee considers relevant; and there shall be printed as many copies as needed to supply the total quantity provided for by this section, of which fifty copies, bound in full morocco, with gilt edges, suitably lettered as may be requested, shall be delivered to the family of the deceased, and the remaining copies shall be distributed as follows:

- of all eulogies on deceased Members of Congress to the Vice President and each Senator, Representative, and Resident Commissioner in Congress, one copy;

- of the eulogies on deceased Senators there shall be furnished two hundred and fifty copies for each Senator of the State represented by the deceased and twenty copies for each Representative from that State;

- of the eulogies on a deceased Representative and Resident Commissioner two hundred and fifty copies for his successor in office; twenty copies for each of the other Representatives, or Resident Commissioner of the State, or insular possession represented by the deceased; and twenty copies for each Senator from that State.

The “usual number” of memorial addresses may not be printed.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1251](/us/stat/82/1251); [Pub. L. 97–51, § 101(c)](/us/pl/97/51/s101/c), Oct. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 959](/us/stat/95/959).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964, ed., § 151 ([Aug. 23, 1894, ch. 307](/us/act/1894-08-23/ch307), [28 Stat. 447](/us/stat/28/447); [Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 73](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s73), [28 Stat. 616](/us/stat/28/616); [June 20, 1936, ch. 630](/us/act/1936-06-20/ch630), title I, § 1, [49 Stat. 1545](/us/stat/49/1545)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The 1981 amendment by [Pub. L. 97–51](/us/pl/97/51) is based on section 4 of House Resolution 23, Ninety–seventh Congress, Mar. 10, 1981, as enacted into permanent law by H.R. 4120, as reported July 9, 1981, and incorporated by reference in [section 101(c) of Pub. L. 97–51](/us/pl/97/51/s101/c), to be effective as if enacted into law.

#### Amendments

1981—[Pub. L. 97–51](/us/pl/97/51) inserted “or a former Member of Congress who served as Speaker” after “relative to the death of a Member of Congress”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Restriction on Number of Bound Eulogies

[Pub. L. 94–59, title VIII](/us/pl/94/59/tVIII), July 25, 1975, [89 Stat. 296](/us/stat/89/296), provided that: “Hereafter, appropriations for authorized printing and binding for Congress shall not be available under the authority of [section 723 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s723) of the United States Code for the printing, publication, and distribution of more than fifty bound eulogies to be delivered to the family of the deceased, and in the case of a deceased Senator or deceased Representative (including Delegates to Congress and the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico), there shall be furnished to his successor in office two hundred and fifty copies.”
