---
title: "§ 3057f. Surplus educational facilities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3057f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3057f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–73, title VI, § 615](/us/pl/89/73/tVI/s615), as added [Pub. L. 100–175, title I, § 171](/us/pl/100/175/tI/s171), Nov. 29, 1987, [101 Stat. 961](/us/stat/101/961).)"
---
# § 3057f. Surplus educational facilities

##### § 3057f. Surplus educational facilities

(a) Multipurpose senior centers Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior through the Bureau of Indian Affairs shall make available surplus Indian educational facilities to tribal organizations, and nonprofit organizations with tribal approval, for use as multipurpose senior centers. Such centers may be altered so as to provide extended care facilities, community center facilities, nutrition services, child care services, and other supportive services.

(b) Applications; submission; contents Each eligible tribal organization desiring to take advantage of such surplus facilities shall submit an application to the Secretary of the Interior at such time and in such manner, and containing or accompanied by such information, as the Secretary of the Interior determines to be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

*([Pub. L. 89–73, title VI, § 615](/us/pl/89/73/tVI/s615), as added [Pub. L. 100–175, title I, § 171](/us/pl/100/175/tI/s171), Nov. 29, 1987, [101 Stat. 961](/us/stat/101/961).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3057f, [Pub. L. 89–73, title VI, § 607](/us/pl/89/73/tVI/s607), as added [Pub. L. 95–478, title I, § 106](/us/pl/95/478/tI/s106), Oct. 18, 1978, [92 Stat. 1551](/us/stat/92/1551), related to payments, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 100–175](/us/pl/100/175). See [section 3057m of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3057m).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1987, except not applicable with respect to any area plan submitted under [section 3026(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3026/a) or any State plan submitted under [section 3027(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3027/a) and approved for any fiscal year beginning before Nov. 29, 1987, see section 701(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 100–175](/us/pl/100/175), set out as an Effective Date of 1987 Amendment note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3001).
