---
title: "§ 1366. Annual report on criminal aliens"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1366"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1366"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 332](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s332), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–634](/us/stat/110/3009-634).)"
---
# § 1366. Annual report on criminal aliens

##### § 1366. Annual report on criminal aliens

(1) the number of illegal aliens incarcerated in Federal and State prisons for having committed felonies, stating the number incarcerated for each type of offense;

(2) the number of illegal aliens convicted of felonies in any Federal or State court, but not sentenced to incarceration, in the year before the report was submitted, stating the number convicted for each type of offense;

(3) programs and plans underway in the Department of Justice to ensure the prompt removal from the United States of criminal aliens subject to removal; and

(4) methods for identifying and preventing the unlawful reentry of aliens who have been convicted of criminal offenses in the United States and removed from the United States.

*([Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, § 332](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tIII/s332), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–634](/us/stat/110/3009-634).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997, and not as part of the Immigration and Nationality Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1551).
