---
title: "§ 58106. Concerted discriminatory activities"
identifier: "USC-T46-S58106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section58106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(c)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/c), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/120/1672).)"
---
# § 58106. Concerted discriminatory activities

##### § 58106. Concerted discriminatory activities

(a) Prohibition.— A contractor receiving an operating-differential subsidy, or a charterer under chapter 575 of this title, may not continue as a party to or conform to an agreement with another carrier by water, or engage in a practice in concert with another carrier by water, that is unjustly discriminatory or unfair to any other citizen of the United States operating a common carrier by water employing only vessels documented under the laws of the United States on an established trade route from and to a United States port.

(b) Government Payment Prohibited.— No payment or subsidy of any kind may be paid, directly or indirectly, out of funds of the United States Government to a contractor or charterer that has violated subsection (a).

(c) Civil Action.— A person whose business or property is injured by a violation of subsection (a) may bring a civil action in the district court of the United States for the district in which the defendant resides, is found, or has an agent. If the person prevails, the person shall be awarded—

(1) 3 times the damages; and

(2) costs, including reasonable attorney fees.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(c)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/c), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/120/1672).)*

In subsection (b), the words “United States Government” are substituted for “United States or any agency of the United States” for consistency and to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (c), the words “bring a civil action” are substituted for “sue” for consistency in the revised title. The words “without respect to the amount in controversy” are omitted because [section 1331 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1331) no longer contains a requirement of any particular amount in controversy for jurisdiction of civil actions arising under the laws of the United States. The words “If the person prevails” are added for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 58106 | 46 App.:1227. | June 29, 1936, ch. 858, title VIII, § 810, 49 Stat. 2015. |
