---
title: "§ 869. Fees payable by United States out of revenue of Puerto Rico"
identifier: "USC-T48-S869"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section869"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Mar. 2, 1901, ch. 812, § 2](/us/act/1901-03-02/ch812/s2), [31 Stat. 953](/us/stat/31/953); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158).)"
---
# § 869. Fees payable by United States out of revenue of Puerto Rico

##### § 869. Fees payable by United States out of revenue of Puerto Rico

Such fees and expenses as are payable by the United States if earned or incurred in connection with a district court of the United States shall be paid from the revenue of Puerto Rico if earned or incurred in connection with the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico.

*([Mar. 2, 1901, ch. 812, § 2](/us/act/1901-03-02/ch812/s2), [31 Stat. 953](/us/stat/31/953); [May 17, 1932, ch. 190](/us/act/1932-05-17/ch190), [47 Stat. 158](/us/stat/47/158).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

“United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico” substituted in text for “District Court of the United States for Puerto Rico” in view of [section 132(a) of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s132/a), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, which states that “There shall be in each judicial district a district court which shall be a court of record known as the United States District Court for the district” and [section 119 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s119) which states that “Puerto Rico constitutes one judicial district”.

Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

As originally enacted, so much of section 2 of act Mar. 2, 1901, as is pertinent here, was as follows: “Such fees and expenses as are payable by the United States, if earned or incurred in connection with a circuit or district court of the United States, shall be paid from the revenues of Porto Rico, if earned or incurred in connection with the district court of the United States for Porto Rico.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Puerto Rico” substituted in text for “Porto Rico” pursuant to act May 17, 1932, which is classified to [section 731a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s731a).
