---
title: "§ 3711b. Conference on advanced automotive technologies"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3711b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3711b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–480, § 18](/us/pl/96/480/s18), as added [Pub. L. 102–240, title VI, § 6019](/us/pl/102/240/tVI/s6019), Dec. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 2183](/us/stat/105/2183).)"
---
# § 3711b. Conference on advanced automotive technologies

##### § 3711b. Conference on advanced automotive technologies

Not later than 180 days after December 18, 1991, the Secretary of Commerce, through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology, in consultation with other appropriate officials, shall convene a conference of domestic motor vehicle manufacturers, parts suppliers, Federal laboratories, and motor vehicle users to explore ways in which cooperatively they can improve the competitiveness of the United States motor vehicle industry by developing new technologies which will enhance the safety and energy savings, and lessen the environmental impact of domestic motor vehicles, and the results of such conference shall be published and then submitted to the President and to the Committees on Science, Space, and Technology and Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 96–480, § 18](/us/pl/96/480/s18), as added [Pub. L. 102–240, title VI, § 6019](/us/pl/102/240/tVI/s6019), Dec. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 2183](/us/stat/105/2183).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Public Works and Transportation of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21).
