---
title: "§ 277d–12. Expenditures for flood fighting, rescue operations, repairs or restoration of flood control or sanitation works threatened or destroyed by floodwaters of Rio Grande, Colorado, or Tijuana Rivers"
identifier: "USC-T22-S277d–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section277d–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([June 20, 1956, ch. 414](/us/act/1956-06-20/ch414), title I, [70 Stat. 302](/us/stat/70/302); [Pub. L. 101–246, title IV, § 412(a)](/us/pl/101/246/tIV/s412/a), Feb. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 69](/us/stat/104/69); [Pub. L. 103–236, title IV, § 423(b)](/us/pl/103/236/tIV/s423/b), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 457](/us/stat/108/457).)"
---
# § 277d–12. Expenditures for flood fighting, rescue operations, repairs or restoration of flood control or sanitation works threatened or destroyed by floodwaters of Rio Grande, Colorado, or Tijuana Rivers

##### § 277d–12. Expenditures for flood fighting, rescue operations, repairs or restoration of flood control or sanitation works threatened or destroyed by floodwaters of Rio Grande, Colorado, or Tijuana Rivers

On and after June 20, 1956, in addition to the funds available under the appropriation “Rio Grande emergency flood protection”, the United States Commissioner is authorized to expend from any appropriation available to the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, American Section, such sums as may be necessary for prosecution of emergency flood fighting and rescue operations, repairs or restoration of any flood control or sanitation works threatened or destroyed by floodwaters of the Rio Grande, the Colorado or Tijuana Rivers, or other streams running across or near the boundary, and for taking emergency actions, consistent with the emergency provisions of the Safe Drinking Water Act [[42 U.S.C. 300f](/us/usc/t42/s300f) et seq.], to protect against health threatening surface and ground water pollution problems along the United States-Mexico boundary.

*([June 20, 1956, ch. 414](/us/act/1956-06-20/ch414), title I, [70 Stat. 302](/us/stat/70/302); [Pub. L. 101–246, title IV, § 412(a)](/us/pl/101/246/tIV/s412/a), Feb. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 69](/us/stat/104/69); [Pub. L. 103–236, title IV, § 423(b)](/us/pl/103/236/tIV/s423/b), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 457](/us/stat/108/457).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Safe Drinking Water Act, referred to in text, is title XIV of act July 1, 1944, as added Dec. 16, 1974, [Pub. L. 93–523, § 2(a)](/us/pl/93/523/s2/a), [88 Stat. 1660](/us/stat/88/1660), which is classified generally to subchapter XII (§ 300f et seq.) of chapter 6A of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 201 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236) substituted “Tijuana Rivers, or other streams running across or near the boundary, and for taking emergency actions, consistent with the emergency provisions of the Safe Drinking Water Act, to protect against health threatening surface and ground water pollution problems along the United States-Mexico boundary” for “Tijuana Rivers, and for taking emergency actions to protect against health threatening sanitation problems by repairing or replacing existing capital infrastructure along the United States-Mexico Boundary”.

1990—[Pub. L. 101–246](/us/pl/101/246) inserted “or sanitation” after “flood control” and inserted before period at end “, the Colorado or Tijuana Rivers, and for taking emergency actions to protect against health threatening sanitation problems by repairing or replacing existing capital infrastructure along the United States-Mexico Boundary”.
