---
title: "§ 2671. Establishment of technical assistance program"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2671"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2671"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–334, title VI, § 6302](/us/pl/115/334/tVI/s6302), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4748](/us/stat/132/4748).)"
---
# § 2671. Establishment of technical assistance program

##### § 2671. Establishment of technical assistance program

(a) Definition In this section, the term “tribally designated housing entity” has the meaning given the term in [section 4103 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s4103).

(b) In general The Secretary shall, in coordination with the Office of Tribal Relations established under section 6921 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, provide technical assistance to improve access by Tribal entities to rural development programs funded by the Department of Agriculture through available cooperative agreement authorities of the Secretary.

(c) Technical assistance Technical assistance provided under subsection (b) shall address the unique challenge of Tribal governments, Tribal producers, Tribal businesses, Tribal business entities, and tribally designated housing entities in accessing Department of Agriculture-supported rural infrastructure, rural cooperative development, rural business and industry, rural housing, and other rural development activities.

*([Pub. L. 115–334, title VI, § 6302](/us/pl/115/334/tVI/s6302), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4748](/us/stat/132/4748).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 6921 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6921), referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “section 309 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994”, and was translated as meaning [section 309 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s309), the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. The Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 is title II of [Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3209](/us/stat/108/3209).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, and not as part of title V of the Rural Development Act of 1972 which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334/s2), set out as a note under [section 9001 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s9001).
