---
title: "§ 7683. Excess non-automatic service rifles: loan or donation for funeral and other ceremonial purposes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7683"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7683"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 262](/us/stat/70A/262), § 4683; [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XVI, § 1621(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tXVI/s1621/a/1), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1602](/us/stat/103/1602); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title III, § 381(a)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tIII/s381/a)–(d)(1), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 582](/us/stat/113/582); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1051(a)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1051/a), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1935](/us/stat/126/1935); ren"
---
# § 7683. Excess non-automatic service rifles: loan or donation for funeral and other ceremonial purposes

##### § 7683. Excess non-automatic service rifles: loan or donation for funeral and other ceremonial purposes

(a) Authority To Lend or Donate.—

(1) The Secretary of the Army, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, may conditionally lend or donate excess M–1 rifles (not more than 15), slings, and cartridge belts to any eligible organization for use by that organization for funeral ceremonies of a member or former member of the armed forces, and for other ceremonial purposes.

(2) If the rifles to be loaned or donated under paragraph (1) are to be used by the eligible organization for funeral ceremonies of a member or former member of the armed forces, the Secretary may issue and deliver the rifles, together with the necessary accoutrements and blank ammunition, without charge.

(3)

(A) In order to meet the needs of an eligible organization with respect to performing funeral and other ceremonies, if the Secretary determines appropriate, the Secretary may—

(i) loan or donate excess non-automatic service rifles to an eligible organization; or

(ii) authorize an eligible organization to retain non-automatic service rifles other than M–1 rifles.

(B) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to supersede any Federal law or regulation governing the use or ownership of firearms.

(b) Relief From Liability.— The Secretary may relieve an eligible organization to which materials are lent or donated under subsection (a), and the surety on its bond, from liability for loss or destruction of the material lent or donated, if there is conclusive evidence that the loss or destruction did not result from negligence.

(c) Conditions on Loan or Donation.— In lending or donating rifles under subsection (a), the Secretary shall impose such conditions on the use of the rifles as may be necessary to ensure security, safety, and accountability. The Secretary may impose such other conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(d) Eligible Organization Defined.— In this section, the term “eligible organization” means—

(1) a unit or other organization of honor guards recognized by the Secretary of the Army as honor guards for a national cemetery;

(2) a law enforcement agency; or

(3) a local unit of any organization that, as determined by the Secretary of the Army, is a nationally recognized veterans’ organization.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 262](/us/stat/70A/262), § 4683; [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XVI, § 1621(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tXVI/s1621/a/1), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1602](/us/stat/103/1602); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title III, § 381(a)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tIII/s381/a)–(d)(1), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 582](/us/stat/113/582); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1051(a)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1051/a), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1935](/us/stat/126/1935); renumbered § 7683, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(d)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/d), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)*

In subsection (a), the words “rules, limitations” and “in suitable amounts” are omitted as surplusage. The words “(not more than 10)” are substituted for 50:62 (proviso). The words “any local unit” are substituted for the words “posts or camps”, before the words “of national”. The words “that unit” are substituted for the word “them”. The words “those units” are substituted for the words “such posts and camps”. The words “a member or former member of the armed forces” are substituted for the words “soldiers, sailors, and marines”. Clause (2) is substituted for 50:62 (words between semicolon and colon).

In subsection (b), the words “a unit to which materials are lent under subsection (a)” are substituted for the description of the posts or camps covered. The words “the material lent” are substituted for the words “obsolete or condemned Army rifles, slings, and cartridge belts loaned by the Secretary of the Army under authority of [section 62 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s62)”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 4683(a)4683(b) | 50:62.50:62b. | Feb. 10, 1920, ch. 64; restated June 5, 1920, ch. 240 (par. under “Rifles and Accessories for Organizations of War Veterans”); restated May 26, 1952, ch. 364, 66 Stat. 94. |
|  |  | Dec. 15, 1926, ch. 10, 44 Stat. 922. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 4683 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4683) as this section.

2013—[Pub. L. 112–239, § 1051(a)(2)](/us/pl/112/239/s1051/a/2), substituted “Excess non-automatic service rifles: loan or donation for funeral and other ceremonial purposes” for “Excess M–1 rifles: loan or donation for funeral and other ceremonial purposes” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1051(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/s1051/a/1), added par. (3).

1999—[Pub. L. 106–65, § 381(d)(1)](/us/pl/106/65/s381/d/1), substituted “Excess M–1 rifles: loan or donation for funeral and other ceremonial purposes” for “Obsolete or condemned rifles: loan to local units of recognized veterans’ organizations” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 381(a)](/us/pl/106/65/s381/a), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: “The Secretary of the Army, under regulations to be prescribed by him, may—

“(1) lend obsolete or condemned rifles (not more than 10), slings, and cartridge belts to any local unit of any national veterans’ organization recognized by the Department of Veterans Affairs, for use by that unit for funeral ceremonies of a member or former member of the armed forces, and for other ceremonial purposes; and

“(2) issue and deliver to those units blank ammunition for those rifles—

“(A) without charge, if it is to be used for ceremonies at national cemeteries; and

“(B) without charge, except for packing, handling, and transportation, if it is to be used for other ceremonies.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 381(c)](/us/pl/106/65/s381/c), inserted heading, substituted “an eligible organization” for “a unit” and “lent or donated” for “lent” in two places.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 106–65, § 381(b)](/us/pl/106/65/s381/b), added subsecs. (c) and (d).

1989—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 101–189](/us/pl/101/189) substituted “Department of Veterans Affairs” for “Veterans’ Administration”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
