---
title: "§ 299c–5. Certain administrative authorities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S299c–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section299c–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IX, § 946, formerly § 926, as added [Pub. L. 106–129, § 2(a)](/us/pl/106/129/s2/a), Dec. 6, 1999, [113 Stat. 1668](/us/stat/113/1668); renumbered § 936, [Pub. L. 109–41, § 2(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/41/s2/a/3), July 29, 2005, [119 Stat. 424](/us/stat/119/424); renumbered § 946, [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3013(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3013/a/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 381](/us/stat/124/381).)"
---
# § 299c–5. Certain administrative authorities

##### § 299c–5. Certain administrative authorities

(a) Deputy director and other officers and employees

(1) Deputy director The Director may appoint a deputy director for the Agency.

(2) Other officers and employees The Director may appoint and fix the compensation of such officers and employees as may be necessary to carry out this subchapter. Except as otherwise provided by law, such officers and employees shall be appointed in accordance with the civil service laws and their compensation fixed in accordance with title 5.

(b) Facilities The Secretary, in carrying out this subchapter—

(1) may acquire, without regard to [section 8141 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s8141), by lease or otherwise through the Administrator of General Services, buildings or portions of buildings in the District of Columbia or communities located adjacent to the District of Columbia for use for a period not to exceed 10 years; and

(2) may acquire, construct, improve, repair, operate, and maintain laboratory, research, and other necessary facilities and equipment, and such other real or personal property (including patents) as the Secretary deems necessary.

(c) Provision of financial assistance The Director, in carrying out this subchapter, may make grants to public and nonprofit entities and individuals, and may enter into cooperative agreements or contracts with public and private entities and individuals.

(d) Utilization of certain personnel and resources

(1) Department of Health and Human Services The Director, in carrying out this subchapter, may utilize personnel and equipment, facilities, and other physical resources of the Department of Health and Human Services, permit appropriate (as determined by the Secretary) entities and individuals to utilize the physical resources of such Department, and provide technical assistance and advice.

(2) Other agencies The Director, in carrying out this subchapter, may use, with their consent, the services, equipment, personnel, information, and facilities of other Federal, State, or local public agencies, or of any foreign government, with or without reimbursement of such agencies.

(e) Consultants The Secretary, in carrying out this subchapter, may secure, from time to time and for such periods as the Director deems advisable but in accordance with [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109), the assistance and advice of consultants from the United States or abroad.

(f) Experts

(1) In general The Secretary may, in carrying out this subchapter, obtain the services of not more than 50 experts or consultants who have appropriate scientific or professional qualifications. Such experts or consultants shall be obtained in accordance with [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109), except that the limitation in such section on the duration of service shall not apply.

(2) Travel expenses

(A) In general Experts and consultants whose services are obtained under paragraph (1) shall be paid or reimbursed for their expenses associated with traveling to and from their assignment location in accordance with sections 5724, 5724a(a), 5724a(c), and 5726(c) of title 5.

(B) Limitation Expenses specified in subparagraph (A) may not be allowed in connection with the assignment of an expert or consultant whose services are obtained under paragraph (1) unless and until the expert agrees in writing to complete the entire period of assignment, or 1 year, whichever is shorter, unless separated or reassigned for reasons that are beyond the control of the expert or consultant and that are acceptable to the Secretary. If the expert or consultant violates the agreement, the money spent by the United States for the expenses specified in subparagraph (A) is recoverable from the expert or consultant as a statutory obligation owed to the United States. The Secretary may waive in whole or in part a right of recovery under this subparagraph.

(g) Voluntary and uncompensated services The Director, in carrying out this subchapter, may accept voluntary and uncompensated services.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IX, § 946, formerly § 926, as added [Pub. L. 106–129, § 2(a)](/us/pl/106/129/s2/a), Dec. 6, 1999, [113 Stat. 1668](/us/stat/113/1668); renumbered § 936, [Pub. L. 109–41, § 2(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/41/s2/a/3), July 29, 2005, [119 Stat. 424](/us/stat/119/424); renumbered § 946, [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3013(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3013/a/2), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 381](/us/stat/124/381).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In subsec. (b)(1), “[section 8141 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s8141)” substituted for “the Act of March 3, 1877 ([40 U.S.C. 34](/us/usc/t40/s34))” on authority of [Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c)](/us/pl/107/217/s5/c), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/116/1303), the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 299c–5, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IX, § 926](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tIX/s926), as added [Pub. L. 101–239, title VI, § 6103(c)](/us/pl/101/239/tVI/s6103/c), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2204](/us/stat/103/2204); amended [Pub. L. 101–381, title I, § 102(7)](/us/pl/101/381/tI/s102/7), Aug. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 586](/us/stat/104/586); [Pub. L. 102–410, § 10](/us/pl/102/410/s10), Oct. 13, 1992, [106 Stat. 2101](/us/stat/106/2101); [Pub. L. 103–43, title XX, § 2010(b)(8)](/us/pl/103/43/tXX/s2010/b/8), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 214](/us/stat/107/214), authorized appropriations to carry out this subchapter, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 106–129](/us/pl/106/129). See [section 299c–6 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s299c–6).
