---
title: "§ 8425. Motorized and nonmotorized access"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8425"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8425"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 127](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s127), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2855](/us/stat/138/2855).)"
---
# § 8425. Motorized and nonmotorized access

##### § 8425. Motorized and nonmotorized access

(a) In general The Secretary concerned shall seek to have, not later than 5 years after January 4, 2025, in a printed and publicly available format that is compliant with the format for geographic information systems—

(1) for each district administered by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, a ground transportation linear feature map authorized for public use or administrative use; and

(2) for each unit of the National Forest System, a motor vehicle use map, in accordance with existing law.

(b) Over-snow vehicle-use maps The Secretary concerned shall seek to have, not later than 10 years after January 4, 2025, in a printed and publicly available format that is compliant with the format for geographic information systems, an over-snow vehicle-use map for each unit of Federal recreational lands and waters administered by the Chief of the Forest Service or Director of the Bureau of Land Management on which over-snow vehicle-use occurs, in accordance with existing law.

(c) Out-of-date maps Not later than 20 years after the date on which the Secretary concerned adopted or reviewed, through public notice and comment, a map described in subsection (a) or (b), the Secretary concerned shall seek to review, through public notice and comment, and update, as necessary, the applicable map.

(d) Motorized and nonmotorized access The Secretaries shall seek to create additional opportunities, as appropriate, and in accordance with existing law, for motorized and nonmotorized access and opportunities on Federal recreational lands and waters administered by the Chief of the Forest Service or the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.

(e) Savings clause Nothing in this section prohibits a lawful use, including authorized motorized or nonmotorized uses, on Federal recreational lands and waters administered by the Chief of the Forest Service or the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, if the Secretary concerned fails to meet a timeline established under this section.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 127](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s127), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2855](/us/stat/138/2855).)*
