---
title: "§ 14508. Economic and energy development initiative"
identifier: "USC-T40-S14508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section14508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–371, § 3(a)](/us/pl/110/371/s3/a), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4040](/us/stat/122/4040).)"
---
# § 14508. Economic and energy development initiative

##### § 14508. Economic and energy development initiative

(a) Projects To Be Assisted.— The Appalachian Regional Commission may provide technical assistance, make grants, enter into contracts, or otherwise provide amounts to persons or entities in the Appalachian region for projects and activities—

(1) to promote energy efficiency in the Appalachian region to enhance the economic competitiveness of the Appalachian region;

(2) to increase the use of renewable energy resources, particularly biomass, in the Appalachian region to produce alternative transportation fuels, electricity, and heat; and

(3) to support the development of regional, conventional energy resources to produce electricity and heat through advanced technologies that achieve a substantial reduction in emissions, including greenhouse gases, over the current baseline.

(b) Limitation on Available Amounts.— Of the cost of any activity eligible for a grant under this section, not more than—

(1) 50 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section;

(2) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; or

(3) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section.

(c) Sources of Assistance.— Subject to subsection (b), grants provided under this section may be provided from amounts made available to carry out this section in combination with amounts made available under other Federal programs or from any other source.

(d) Federal Share.— Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the Federal share under any other Federal program, amounts made available to carry out this section may be used to increase that Federal share, as the Commission decides is appropriate.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–371, § 3(a)](/us/pl/110/371/s3/a), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4040](/us/stat/122/4040).)*
