---
title: "§ 17305. Effect on other laws"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title VIII, § 815](/us/pl/110/140/tVIII/s815), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1724](/us/stat/121/1724).)"
---
# § 17305. Effect on other laws

##### § 17305. Effect on other laws

(a) Other authority of the Commission Nothing in this part limits or affects the authority of the Federal Trade Commission to bring an enforcement action or take any other measure under the Federal Trade Commission Act ([15 U.S.C. 41](/us/usc/t15/s41) et seq.) or any other provision of law.

(b) Antitrust law Nothing in this part shall be construed to modify, impair, or supersede the operation of any of the antitrust laws. For purposes of this subsection, the term “antitrust laws” shall have the meaning given it in subsection (a) of the first section of the Clayton Act ([15 U.S.C. 12](/us/usc/t15/s12)), except that it includes section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act ([15 U.S.C. 45](/us/usc/t15/s45)) to the extent that such section 5 applies to unfair methods of competition.

(c) State law Nothing in this part preempts any State law.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title VIII, § 815](/us/pl/110/140/tVIII/s815), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1724](/us/stat/121/1724).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311](/us/act/1914-09-26/ch311), [38 Stat. 717](/us/stat/38/717), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 58 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s58) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
