---
title: "§ 13901. Requirements for registration"
identifier: "USC-T49-S13901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section13901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 879](/us/stat/109/879); amended [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, § 32914(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII/s32914/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 819](/us/stat/126/819).)"
---
# § 13901. Requirements for registration

##### § 13901. Requirements for registration

(a) In General.— A person may provide transportation as a motor carrier subject to jurisdiction under subchapter I of chapter 135 or service as a freight forwarder subject to jurisdiction under subchapter III of such chapter, or service as a broker for transportation subject to jurisdiction under subchapter I of such chapter only if the person is registered under this chapter to provide such transportation or service.

(b) Registration Numbers.—

(1) In general.— If the Secretary registers a person under this chapter to provide transportation or service, including as a motor carrier, freight forwarder, or broker, the Secretary shall issue a distinctive registration number to the person for each such authority to provide transportation or service for which the person is registered.

(2) Transportation or service type indicator.— A number issued under paragraph (1) shall include an indicator of the type of transportation or service for which the registration number is issued, including whether the registration number is issued for registration of a motor carrier, freight forwarder, or broker.

(c) Specification of Authority.— For each agreement to provide transportation or service for which registration is required under this chapter, the registrant shall specify, in writing, the authority under which the person is providing such transportation or service.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 879](/us/stat/109/879); amended [Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, § 32914(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dC/tII/s32914/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 819](/us/stat/126/819).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2012—[Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “A person may provide transportation or service subject to jurisdiction under subchapter I or III of chapter 135 or be a broker for transportation subject to jurisdiction under subchapter I of that chapter, only if the person is registered under this chapter to provide the transportation or service.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141) effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
