---
title: "§ 2303. Notice"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–500, § 4](/us/pl/98/500/s4), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2317](/us/stat/98/2317).)"
---
# § 2303. Notice

##### § 2303. Notice

(a) Publication; list of trust estates; unauthorized disbursements; Federal Register Within one hundred and eighty days after October 19, 1984, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a list of all trust estates from which unauthorized disbursements are known to have been made, including the amount of the unauthorized disbursement made from each such trust estate.

(b) Secretary to provide information to affected tribes, bands, or groups Within thirty days after the publication of this list, the Secretary shall provide a copy of this chapter and a copy of the Federal Register containing this list, or such parts as may be pertinent, to each Indian tribe, band, or group the rights of whose members may be affected by this chapter.

(c) Submission of additional unauthorized disbursement claims Any tribe, band or group of Indians, or any individual Indian shall have one hundred and eighty days after the date of the publication in the Federal Register of the list provided for in subsection (b) of this section to submit to the Secretary any additional unauthorized disbursement claims not contained on the list.

(d) Publication of additional unauthorized disbursement claims Not more than thirty days after the expiration of the one hundred and eighty day period provided for in subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a list containing the additional unauthorized disbursement claims submitted during such period.

*([Pub. L. 98–500, § 4](/us/pl/98/500/s4), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2317](/us/stat/98/2317).)*
