---
title: "§ 18802. Career skills training"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18802"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18802"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, § 40513](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tV/s40513), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1060](/us/stat/135/1060).)"
---
# § 18802. Career skills training

##### § 18802. Career skills training

(a) Definition of eligible entity In this section, the term “eligible entity” means a nonprofit partnership that—

(1) includes the equal participation of industry, including public or private employers, and labor organizations, including joint labor-management training programs;

(2) may include workforce investment boards, community-based organizations, qualified service and conservation corps, educational institutions, small businesses, cooperatives, State and local veterans agencies, and veterans service organizations; and

(3) demonstrates—

(A) experience in implementing and operating worker skills training and education programs;

(B) the ability to identify and involve in training programs carried out under this section, target populations of individuals who would benefit from training and be actively involved in activities relating to energy efficiency and renewable energy industries; and

(C) the ability to help individuals achieve economic self-sufficiency.

(b) Establishment The Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities to pay the Federal share of associated career skills training programs under which students concurrently receive classroom instruction and on-the-job training for the purpose of obtaining an industry-related certification to install energy efficient buildings technologies.

(c) Federal share The Federal share of the cost of carrying out a career skills training program described in subsection (b) shall be 50 percent.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022, to remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title V, § 40513](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tV/s40513), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1060](/us/stat/135/1060).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), including authority of Secretary of Labor, see [section 18851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18851).
