---
title: "§ 6982. Conditions for implementation of alterations in the level of additives allowed in animal diets"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6982"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6982"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 262](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s262), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3227](/us/stat/108/3227).)"
---
# § 6982. Conditions for implementation of alterations in the level of additives allowed in animal diets

##### § 6982. Conditions for implementation of alterations in the level of additives allowed in animal diets

(a) Conditions The Food and Drug Administration shall not implement or enforce the final rule described in subsection (b) to alter the level of selenium allowed to be used as a supplement in animal diets unless the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration makes a determination that—

(1) selenium additives are not essential, at levels authorized in the absence of such final rule, to maintain animal nutrition and protect animal health;

(2) selenium at such levels is not safe to the animals consuming the additive;

(3) selenium at such levels is not safe to individuals consuming edible portions of animals that receive the additive;

(4) selenium at such levels does not achieve its intended effect of promoting normal growth and reproduction of livestock and poultry; and

(5) the manufacture and use of selenium at such levels cannot reasonably be controlled by adherence to current good manufacturing practice requirements.

(b) Final rule described The final rule referred to in subsection (a) is the final rule issued by the Food and Drug Administration and published in the Federal Register on September 13, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 47962), in which the Administration stayed 1987 amendments to the selenium food additive regulations, and any modification of such rule issued after October 13, 1994.

*([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 262](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s262), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3227](/us/stat/108/3227).)*
