---
title: "§ 3325. Reporting requirement"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3325"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3325"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–154, title IV, § 402(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/154/tIV/s402/a/1), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1188](/us/stat/126/1188); amended [Pub. L. 114–315, title IV, § 404(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/315/tIV/s404/a/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1554](/us/stat/130/1554).)"
---
# § 3325. Reporting requirement

##### § 3325. Reporting requirement

(a) In General.— For each academic year—

(1) the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the operation of the program provided for in this chapter; and

(2) the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the operation of the program provided for in this chapter and the program provided for under chapter 35 of this title.

(b) Contents of Secretary of Defense Reports.— The Secretary of Defense shall include in each report submitted under this section—

(1) information—

(A) indicating the extent to which the benefit levels provided under this chapter are adequate to achieve the purposes of inducing individuals to enter and remain in the Armed Forces and of providing an adequate level of financial assistance to help meet the cost of pursuing a program of education;

(B) indicating whether it is necessary for the purposes of maintaining adequate levels of well-qualified active-duty personnel in the Armed Forces to continue to offer the opportunity for educational assistance under this chapter to individuals who have not yet entered active-duty service; and

(C) describing the efforts under [section 3323(b) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3323/b) to inform members of the Armed Forces of the active duty service requirements for entitlement to educational assistance under this chapter and the results from such efforts; and

(2) such recommendations for administrative and legislative changes regarding the provision of educational assistance to members of the Armed Forces and veterans, and their dependents, as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.

(c) Contents of Secretary of Veterans Affairs Reports.— The Secretary shall include in each report submitted under this section—

(1) information concerning the level of utilization of educational assistance and of expenditures under this chapter and under chapter 35 of this title;

(2) appropriate student outcome measures, such as the number of credit hours, certificates, degrees, and other qualifications earned by beneficiaries under this chapter and chapter 35 of this title during the academic year covered by the report;

(3) the information received by the Secretary under [section 3326 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3326); and

(4) such recommendations for administrative and legislative changes regarding the provision of educational assistance to members of the Armed Forces and veterans, and their dependents, as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(d) Termination.— No report shall be required under this section after January 1, 2021.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–154, title IV, § 402(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/154/tIV/s402/a/1), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1188](/us/stat/126/1188); amended [Pub. L. 114–315, title IV, § 404(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/315/tIV/s404/a/1), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1554](/us/stat/130/1554).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (c)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 114–315](/us/pl/114/315) added par. (3) and redesignated former par. (3) as (4).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

[Pub. L. 114–315, title IV, § 404(c)](/us/pl/114/315/tIV/s404/c), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1554](/us/stat/130/1554), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting [section 3326 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3326) and amending this section] shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 16, 2016].”

#### Deadline for Submittal of First Report

[Pub. L. 112–154, title IV, § 402(a)(3)](/us/pl/112/154/tIV/s402/a/3), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/126/1189), provided that: “The first reports required under [section 3325 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s3325), United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall be submitted by not later than November 1, 2013.”
