---
title: "§ 4592. Recordkeeping for audit"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4592"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4592"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–616, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/91/616/tVI/s602), formerly title V, § 502, Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1854](/us/stat/84/1854), renumbered [Pub. L. 94–371, § 7](/us/pl/94/371/s7), July 26, 1976, [90 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/90/1038).)"
---
# § 4592. Recordkeeping for audit

##### § 4592. Recordkeeping for audit

(a) Each recipient of assistance under this chapter pursuant to grants or contracts entered into under other than competitive bidding procedures shall keep such records as the Secretary shall prescribe, including records which fully disclose the amount and disposition by such recipient of the proceeds of such grant or contract, the total cost of the project or undertaking in connection with which such grant or contract is given or used, and the amount of that portion of the cost of the project or undertaking supplied by other sources, and such other records as will facilitate an effective audit.

(b) The Secretary and Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, and records of such recipients that are pertinent to the grants or contracts entered into under the provisions of this chapter under other than competitive bidding procedures.

*([Pub. L. 91–616, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/91/616/tVI/s602), formerly title V, § 502, Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1854](/us/stat/84/1854), renumbered [Pub. L. 94–371, § 7](/us/pl/94/371/s7), July 26, 1976, [90 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/90/1038).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–616](/us/pl/91/616), Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1848](/us/stat/84/1848), known as the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act of 1970. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4541 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4541) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 94–371, § 7](/us/pl/94/371/s7), July 26, 1976, [90 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/90/1038), redesignated title V of [Pub. L. 91–616](/us/pl/91/616), which was classified to subchapter IV of this chapter, as title VI without renumbering the sections therein. [Section 502 of Pub. L. 91–616](/us/pl/91/616/s502) was renumbered 602, as the probable intent of Congress.
