---
title: "§ 4851. Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4851"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4851"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1781](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1781), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2238](/us/stat/132/2238); [Pub. L. 116–6, div. H, title II, § 205(a)](/us/pl/116/6/dH/tII/s205/a), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 476](/us/stat/133/476).)"
---
# § 4851. Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security

##### § 4851. Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security

(a) Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, an Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security, who shall carry out—

(1) all functions of the Secretary under this chapter; and

(2) all functions delegated to the Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act.

(b) Reference On and after August 13, 2018, any reference in any law or regulation to the Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration shall be deemed to be a reference to the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security.

(c) Omitted

(d) Continuation in office The individual serving as Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration on the day before August 13, 2018, may serve as the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security on and after that date without the need for renomination or reappointment.

*([Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1781](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1781), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2238](/us/stat/132/2238); [Pub. L. 116–6, div. H, title II, § 205(a)](/us/pl/116/6/dH/tII/s205/a), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 476](/us/stat/133/476).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle B (§§ 1741–1781) of title XVII of div. A of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/132/2208), known as the Export Control Reform Act of 2018, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle B to the Code, see [section 1741 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1741), set out as a Short Title note under [section 4801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4801) and Tables.

The date of the enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), probably means the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), which enacted this section and was approved Aug. 13, 2018.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 1781 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1781). Subsec. (c) of [section 1781 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s1781) amended [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Amendments

2019—[Pub. L. 116–6, § 205(a)(3)](/us/pl/116/6/s205/a/3), added subsec. (a). Former subsec. (a) redesignated (b).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–6, § 205(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/6/s205/a/1), (2), redesignated subsec. (a) as (b) and substituted “Reference” for “In general” in heading. Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 116–6, § 205(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/6/s205/a/1), redesignated subsecs. (b) and (c) as (c) and (d), respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2019 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–6, div. H, title II, § 205(d)](/us/pl/116/6/dH/tII/s205/d), Feb. 15, 2019, [133 Stat. 477](/us/stat/133/477), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees] shall take effect as if included in the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 ([Public Law 115–232](/us/pl/115/232)).”
