---
title: "§ 156. Procedure in changing rates of pay, rules, and working conditions"
identifier: "USC-T45-S156"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title45-section156"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "45"
source_credit: "([May 20, 1926, ch. 347, § 6](/us/act/1926-05-20/ch347/s6), [44 Stat. 582](/us/stat/44/582); [June 21, 1934, ch. 691, § 6](/us/act/1934-06-21/ch691/s6), [48 Stat. 1197](/us/stat/48/1197).)"
---
# § 156. Procedure in changing rates of pay, rules, and working conditions

##### § 156. Procedure in changing rates of pay, rules, and working conditions

Carriers and representatives of the employees shall give at least thirty days’ written notice of an intended change in agreements affecting rates of pay, rules, or working conditions, and the time and place for the beginning of conference between the representatives of the parties interested in such intended changes shall be agreed upon within ten days after the receipt of said notice, and said time shall be within the thirty days provided in the notice. In every case where such notice of intended change has been given, or conferences are being held with reference thereto, or the services of the Mediation Board have been requested by either party, or said Board has proffered its services, rates of pay, rules, or working conditions shall not be altered by the carrier until the controversy has been finally acted upon, as required by [section 155 of this title](/us/usc/t45/s155), by the Mediation Board, unless a period of ten days has elapsed after termination of conferences without request for or proffer of the services of the Mediation Board.

*([May 20, 1926, ch. 347, § 6](/us/act/1926-05-20/ch347/s6), [44 Stat. 582](/us/stat/44/582); [June 21, 1934, ch. 691, § 6](/us/act/1934-06-21/ch691/s6), [48 Stat. 1197](/us/stat/48/1197).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1934—Act June 21, 1934, inserted “in agreements” after “intended change” in text, struck out provision formerly contained in text concerning changes requested by more than one class, and substituted “Mediation Board” for “Board of Mediation” wherever appearing.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Wage and Salary Adjustments

Ex. Ord. No. 9299, eff. Feb. 4, 1943, 8 F.R. 1669, provided procedure with respect to wage and salary adjustments for employees subject to this chapter.
