---
title: "§ 2558. National military associations: assistance at national conventions"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2558"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2558"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title III, § 329(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tIII/s329/a/1), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/103/1417), § 2548; renumbered § 2558, [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title X, § 1033(b)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–260.)"
---
# § 2558. National military associations: assistance at national conventions

##### § 2558. National military associations: assistance at national conventions

(a) Authority To Provide Services.— The Secretary of a military department may provide services described in subsection (c) in connection with an annual conference or convention of a national military association.

(b) Conditions for Providing Services.— Services may be provided under this section only if—

(1) the provision of the services in any case is approved in advance by the Secretary concerned;

(2) the services can be provided in conjunction with training in appropriate military skills; and

(3) the services can be provided within existing funds otherwise available to the Secretary concerned.

(c) Covered Services.— Services that may be provided under this section are—

(1) limited air and ground transportation;

(2) communications;

(3) medical assistance;

(4) administrative support; and

(5) security support.

(d) National Military Associations.— The Secretary of Defense shall designate those organizations which are national military associations for purposes of this section.

(e) Regulations.— The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title III, § 329(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tIII/s329/a/1), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/103/1417), § 2548; renumbered § 2558, [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title X, § 1033(b)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–260.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2000—[Pub. L. 106–398](/us/pl/106/398) renumbered [section 2548 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2548) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title III, § 329(b)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tIII/s329/b), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/103/1417), provided that: “Section 2548 [now 2558] of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 29, 1989].”
