---
title: "§ 14103. Loading and unloading motor vehicles"
identifier: "USC-T49-S14103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section14103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 891](/us/stat/109/891).)"
---
# § 14103. Loading and unloading motor vehicles

##### § 14103. Loading and unloading motor vehicles

(a) Shipper Responsible for Assisting.— Whenever a shipper or receiver of property requires that any person who owns or operates a motor vehicle transporting property in interstate commerce (whether or not such transportation is subject to jurisdiction under subchapter I of chapter 135) be assisted in the loading or unloading of such vehicle, the shipper or receiver shall be responsible for providing such assistance or shall compensate the owner or operator for all costs associated with securing and compensating the person or persons providing such assistance.

(b) Coercion Prohibited.— It shall be unlawful to coerce or attempt to coerce any person providing transportation of property by motor vehicle for compensation in interstate commerce (whether or not such transportation is subject to jurisdiction under subchapter I of chapter 135) to load or unload any part of such property onto or from such vehicle or to employ or pay one or more persons to load or unload any part of such property onto or from such vehicle; except that this subsection shall not be construed as making unlawful any activity which is not unlawful under the National Labor Relations Act or the Act of March 23, 1932 ([47 Stat. 70](/us/stat/47/70); [29 U.S.C. 101](/us/usc/t29/s101) et seq.), commonly known as the Norris-LaGuardia Act.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 891](/us/stat/109/891).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Labor Relations Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act July 5, 1935, ch. 372](/us/act/1935-07-05/ch372), [49 Stat. 449](/us/stat/49/449), which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 151 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 167 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s167) and Tables.

Act of March 23, 1932, commonly known as the Norris-LaGuardia Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act Mar. 23, 1932, ch. 90](/us/act/1932-03-23/ch90), [47 Stat. 70](/us/stat/47/70), which is classified generally to chapter 6 (§ 101 et seq.) of Title 29. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 101 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s101) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 11109 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s11109) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).

#### Collection of Data on Delays in Goods Movement

[Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title V, § 5501(b)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tV/s5501/b), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1550](/us/stat/129/1550), provided that: “Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2015], the Secretary [of Transportation] shall establish by regulation a process to collect data on delays experienced by operators of commercial motor vehicles before the loading and unloading of such vehicles and at other points in the pick-up and delivery process.”
