---
title: "§ 7274l. Authority to transfer certain Department of Energy property"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7274l"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7274l"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–160, div. C, title XXXI, § 3155](/us/pl/103/160/dC/tXXXI/s3155), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1953](/us/stat/107/1953).)"
---
# § 7274l. Authority to transfer certain Department of Energy property

##### § 7274l. Authority to transfer certain Department of Energy property

(a) Authority to transfer

(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Energy may transfer, for consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the property referred to in subsection (b) to any person if the Secretary determines that such transfer will mitigate the adverse economic consequences that might otherwise arise from the closure of a Department of Energy facility.

(2) The amount of consideration received by the United States for a transfer under paragraph (1) may be less than the fair market value of the property transferred if the Secretary determines that the receipt of such lesser amount by the United States is in accordance with the purpose of such transfer under this section.

(3) The Secretary may require any additional terms and conditions with respect to a transfer of property under paragraph (1) that the Secretary determines appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

(b) Covered property Property referred to in subsection (a) is the following property of the Department of Energy that is located at a Department of Energy facility to be closed or reconfigured:

(1) The personal property and equipment at the facility that the Secretary determines to be excess to the needs of the Department of Energy.

(2) Any personal property and equipment at the facility (other than the property and equipment referred to in paragraph (1)) the replacement cost of which does not exceed an amount equal to 110 percent of the costs of relocating the property or equipment to another facility of the Department of Energy.

*([Pub. L. 103–160, div. C, title XXXI, § 3155](/us/pl/103/160/dC/tXXXI/s3155), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1953](/us/stat/107/1953).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
