---
title: "§ 5537. Fees for jury and witness service"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5537"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5537"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 484](/us/stat/80/484); [Pub. L. 90–623, § 1(12)](/us/pl/90/623/s1/12), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/82/1312); [Pub. L. 91–563, § 3(a)](/us/pl/91/563/s3/a), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1477](/us/stat/84/1477); [Pub. L. 101–650, title III, § 321](/us/pl/101/650/tIII/s321), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5117](/us/stat/104/5117); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 215(8)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s215/8), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1746](/us/stat/110"
---
# § 5537. Fees for jury and witness service

##### § 5537. Fees for jury and witness service

(a) An employee as defined by [section 2105 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s2105) (except an individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, or the Chief of the Capitol Police) or an individual employed by the government of the District of Columbia may not receive fees for service—

(1) as a juror in a court of the United States or the District of Columbia; or

(2) as a witness on behalf of the United States or the District of Columbia.

(b) An official of a court of the United States or the District of Columbia may not receive witness fees for attendance before a court, commissioner, or magistrate judge where he is officiating.

(c) For the purpose of this section, “court of the United States” has the meaning given it by [section 451 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s451) and includes the District Court of Guam and the District Court of the Virgin Islands.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 484](/us/stat/80/484); [Pub. L. 90–623, § 1(12)](/us/pl/90/623/s1/12), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/82/1312); [Pub. L. 91–563, § 3(a)](/us/pl/91/563/s3/a), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1477](/us/stat/84/1477); [Pub. L. 101–650, title III, § 321](/us/pl/101/650/tIII/s321), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5117](/us/stat/104/5117); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 215(8)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s215/8), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1746](/us/stat/110/1746); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. C, title XXXV, § 3548(a)(5)](/us/pl/104/201/dC/tXXXV/s3548/a/5), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2868](/us/stat/110/2868); [Pub. L. 111–145, § 7(c)(2)](/us/pl/111/145/s7/c/2), Mar. 4, 2010, [124 Stat. 55](/us/stat/124/55).)*

The words “fees for jury service” are coextensive with and substituted for “compensation for such service”.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 30*o.* | June 29, 1940, ch. 446, § 2, 54 Stat. 689. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–145](/us/pl/111/145) substituted “, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, or the Chief of the Capitol Police” for “or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives” in introductory provisions.

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) substituted “Chief Administrative Officer” for “Clerk” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) substituted “the District Court of Guam and the District Court of the Virgin Islands” for “the United States District Court for the District of the Canal Zone, the District Court of Guam, and the District Court of the Virgin Islands”.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–563](/us/pl/91/563) substituted “jury and witness service” for “jury service in courts of the United States” in section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted provisions prohibiting payment of fees for jury service in a court of the District of Columbia or for service as a witness on behalf of the United States or the District of Columbia and excepting employees whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

1968—[Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623) inserted “, who is entitled to leave under [section 6322 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s6322),” after “individual employed by the government of the District of Columbia”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Words “magistrate judge” substituted for “magistrate” in subsec. (b) pursuant to [section 321 of Pub. L. 101–650](/us/pl/101/650/s321), set out as a note under [section 631 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s631), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–145](/us/pl/111/145) effective as though enacted as part of [section 1018 of Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7/s1018), see [section 7(d) of Pub. L. 111–145](/us/pl/111/145/s7/d), set out as a note under [section 2107 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s2107).

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623) intended to restate without substantive change the law in effect on Oct. 22, 1968, see [section 6 of Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623/s6), set out as a note under [section 5334 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5334).
