---
title: "§ 17142. Procurement and acquisition of alternative fuels"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17142"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17142"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title V, § 526](/us/pl/110/140/tV/s526), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1663](/us/stat/121/1663).)"
---
# § 17142. Procurement and acquisition of alternative fuels

##### § 17142. Procurement and acquisition of alternative fuels

No Federal agency shall enter into a contract for procurement of an alternative or synthetic fuel, including a fuel produced from nonconventional petroleum sources, for any mobility-related use, other than for research or testing, unless the contract specifies that the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions associated with the production and combustion of the fuel supplied under the contract must, on an ongoing basis, be less than or equal to such emissions from the equivalent conventional fuel produced from conventional petroleum sources.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title V, § 526](/us/pl/110/140/tV/s526), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1663](/us/stat/121/1663).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.

#### Waiver Authority for Alternative Fuel Procurement Requirement

[Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title III, § 312](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tIII/s312), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2073](/us/stat/130/2073), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement under section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 ([Public Law 110–140](/us/pl/110/140); [42 U.S.C. 17142](/us/usc/t42/s17142)) if the Secretary determines it is in the national security interest of the United States. “(b) Notification Requirement.—The Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] not later than 15 days after exercising the waiver authority under subsection (a).”
