---
title: "§ 7104. Processing project requests to be financed by at least 2 assistance programs"
identifier: "USC-T31-S7104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section7104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/96/1037).)"
---
# § 7104. Processing project requests to be financed by at least 2 assistance programs

##### § 7104. Processing project requests to be financed by at least 2 assistance programs

(1) required reviews and approvals are handled expeditiously;

(2) complete account is taken of special considerations of timing that are made known by the applicant that would affect the feasibility of a jointly financed project;

(3) an applicant is required to deal with a minimum number of representatives of the United States Government;

(4) an applicant is promptly informed of a decision or special problem that could affect the feasibility of providing joint assistance under the application; and

(5) an applicant is not required to get information or assurances from one executive agency for a requesting executive agency when the requesting agency may get the information or assurances directly.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/96/1037).)*

In the section, before clause (1), the words “for a project to be financed by at least 2 assistance programs” are substituted for “under two or more Federal programs in support of any project” for consistency in the revised chapter. The words “shall take action” are substituted for “Actions taken by Federal agency heads pursuant to this chapter that relate to”, and the words “that will ensure” are substituted for “shall be designed to assure”, to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “so far as reasonably possible” are omitted as surplus. In clause (4), the word “impediments” is omitted as surplus. The word “providing” is substituted for “Federal provision of”, and the words “joint assistance under the application” are substituted for “on a joint basis”, to eliminate unnecessary words. Clause (5) is substituted for 42:4253(5) because of the restatement.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 7104 | 42:4253. | Dec. 5, 1974, Pub. L. 93–510, § 4, 88 Stat. 1605. |
