---
title: "§ 198. Purchase by receiver of property of bank; request to Comptroller"
identifier: "USC-T12-S198"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section198"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Mar. 29, 1886, ch. 28, § 1](/us/act/1886-03-29/ch28/s1), [24 Stat. 8](/us/stat/24/8).)"
---
# § 198. Purchase by receiver of property of bank; request to Comptroller

##### § 198. Purchase by receiver of property of bank; request to Comptroller

Whenever the receiver of any national bank duly appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency, and who shall have duly qualified and entered upon the discharge of his trust, shall find it in his opinion necessary, in order to fully protect and benefit his said trust, to the extent of any and all equities that such trust may have in any property, real or personal, by reason of any bond, mortgage, assignment, or other proper legal claim attaching thereto, and which said property is to be sold under any execution, decree of foreclosure, or proper order of any court of jurisdiction, he may certify the facts in the case, together with his opinion as to the value of the property to be sold, and the value of the equity his said trust may have in the same, to the Comptroller of the Currency, together with a request for the right and authority to use and employ so much of the money of said trust as may be necessary to purchase such property at such sale.

*([Mar. 29, 1886, ch. 28, § 1](/us/act/1886-03-29/ch28/s1), [24 Stat. 8](/us/stat/24/8).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Application to District of Columbia

Provisions of this section were made applicable to banks, etc., in the District of Columbia by [act Mar. 4, 1933, ch. 274, § 4](/us/act/1933-03-04/ch274/s4), [47 Stat. 1567](/us/stat/47/1567).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Exception as to Transfer of Functions

Functions vested by any provision of law in Comptroller of the Currency, referred to in this section, not included in transfer of functions to Secretary of the Treasury, see note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1).
