---
title: "§ 1423. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1423"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1423"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–522, title V, § 501](/us/pl/92/522/tV/s501), as added [Pub. L. 109–479, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/109/479/tIX/s902/a), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3660](/us/stat/120/3660).)"
---
# § 1423. Definitions

##### § 1423. Definitions

(1) Agreement The term “Agreement” means the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Conservation and Management of the Alaska-Chukotka Polar Bear Population, signed at Washington, D.C., on October 16, 2000.

(2) Alaska Nanuuq Commission The term “Alaska Nanuuq Commission” means the Alaska Native entity, in existence on January 12, 2007, that represents all villages in the State of Alaska that engage in the annual subsistence taking of polar bears from the Alaska-Chukotka population and any successor entity.

(3) Import The term “import” means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into, any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, without regard to whether the landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States.

(4) Polar bear part or product The term “part or product of a polar bear” means any polar bear part or product, including the gall bile and gall bladder.

(5) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(6) Taking The term “taking” has the meaning given the term in the Agreement.

(7) Commission The term “Commission” means the commission established under article 8 of the Agreement.

*([Pub. L. 92–522, title V, § 501](/us/pl/92/522/tV/s501), as added [Pub. L. 109–479, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/109/479/tIX/s902/a), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3660](/us/stat/120/3660).)*
