---
title: "§ 3504. NOAA joint ocean and coastal mapping centers"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12205](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12205), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1424](/us/stat/123/1424); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CIII, § 10307(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCIII/s10307/d/1), (2), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3978](/us/stat/136/3978).)"
---
# § 3504. NOAA joint ocean and coastal mapping centers

##### § 3504. NOAA joint ocean and coastal mapping centers

(1) research and development of innovative ocean and coastal mapping technologies, equipment, and data products;

(2) mapping of the United States Outer Continental Shelf and other regions;

(3) data processing for nontraditional data and uses;

(4) advancing the use of remote sensing and uncrewed technologies, for related issues, including mapping and assessment of essential fish habitat and of coral resources, ocean observations, and ocean exploration; and

(5) providing graduate education and training in ocean and coastal mapping sciences for members of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps, personnel of other agencies with ocean and coastal mapping programs, and civilian personnel.

*([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12205](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12205), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1424](/us/stat/123/1424); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CIII, § 10307(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCIII/s10307/d/1), (2), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3978](/us/stat/136/3978).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–263, § 10307(d)(2)](/us/pl/117/263/s10307/d/2), substituted “NOAA joint ocean and coastal mapping centers” for “Plan” in section catchline, redesignated subsec. (c) as entire section, struck out subsec. (c) heading “NOAA joint ocean and coastal mapping centers” before introductory provisions, and struck out subsecs. (a), (b), and (d) which related to development of a plan for an integrated ocean and coastal mapping initiative, requirements for the plan, and strategy for expanding contracting with non-governmental entities, respectively.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–263, § 10307(d)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/s10307/d/1), in subsec. (c) prior to its redesignation as entire section, substituted “three” for “3” in introductory provisions and inserted “and uncrewed” after “sensing” in par. (4).
