---
title: "§ 10593. Program requirements"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10593"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10593"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2923](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2923), as added [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 113](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s113), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 675](/us/stat/122/675); amended [Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 502(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s502/b/2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5228](/us/stat/132/5228).)"
---
# § 10593. Program requirements

##### § 10593. Program requirements

(a) In general A program for which a grant is made under [section 10591(1) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10591/1) shall comply with the following requirements:

(1) The program shall ensure that all providers of substance abuse treatment are approved by the State or Indian Tribe and are licensed, if necessary, to provide medical and other health services.

(2) The program shall ensure appropriate coordination and consultation with the Single State Authority for Substance Abuse of the State (as that term is defined in [section 60521(e) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s60521/e)).

(3) The program shall consist of clinically-appropriate, comprehensive, and long-term family treatment, including the treatment of the nonviolent parent drug offender, the child of such offender, and any other appropriate member of the family of the offender.

(4) The program shall be provided in a residential setting that is not a hospital setting or an intensive outpatient setting.

(5) The program shall provide that if a nonviolent parent drug offender who participates in that program does not successfully complete the program the offender shall serve an appropriate sentence of imprisonment with respect to the underlying crime involved.

(6) The program shall ensure that a determination is made as to whether a nonviolent drug offender has completed the substance abuse treatment program.

(7) The program shall include the implementation of a system of graduated sanctions (including incentives) that are applied based on the accountability of the nonviolent parent drug offender involved throughout the course of that program to encourage compliance with that program.

(8) The program shall develop and implement a reentry plan for each participant.

(b) Prison-based programs A program for which a grant is made under [section 10591(2) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10591/2) shall comply with the following requirements:

(1) The program shall integrate techniques to assess the strengths and needs of immediate and extended family of the incarcerated parent to support a treatment plan of the incarcerated parent.

(2) The program shall ensure that each participant in that program has access to consistent and uninterrupted care if transferred to a different correctional facility within the State or other relevant entity.

(3) The program shall be located in an area separate from the general population of the prison.

(c) Priority considerations The Attorney General shall give priority consideration to grant applications for grants under [section 10591 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10591) that are submitted by a nonprofit organization that demonstrates a relationship with State and local criminal justice agencies, including—

(1) within the judiciary and prosecutorial agencies; or

(2) with the local corrections agencies, which shall be documented by a written agreement that details the terms of access to facilities and participants and provides information on the history of the organization of working with correctional populations.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2923](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2923), as added [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 113](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s113), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 675](/us/stat/122/675); amended [Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 502(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s502/b/2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5228](/us/stat/132/5228).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797s–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797s–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–391](/us/pl/115/391) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction of 2008 Amendment

For construction of amendments by [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) and requirements for grants made under such amendments, see [section 60504 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s60504).
