---
title: "§ 3994. Mining claims"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3994"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3994"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title V, § 504, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2856](/us/stat/117/2856).)"
---
# § 3994. Mining claims

##### § 3994. Mining claims

(a) Requirements suspended The provisions of [section 28 of title 30](/us/usc/t30/s28) specified in subsection (b) shall not apply to a servicemember’s claims or interests in claims, regularly located and recorded, during a period of military service and 180 days thereafter, or during any period of hospitalization or rehabilitation due to injuries or disabilities incurred in the line of duty.

(b) Requirements The provisions in [section 28 of title 30](/us/usc/t30/s28) that shall not apply under subsection (a) are those which require that on each mining claim located after May 10, 1872, and until a patent has been issued for such claim, not less than $100 worth of labor shall be performed or improvements made during each year.

(c) Period of protection from forfeiture A mining claim or an interest in a claim owned by a servicemember that has been regularly located and recorded shall not be subject to forfeiture for nonperformance of annual assessments during the period of military service and for 180 days thereafter, or for any period of hospitalization or rehabilitation described in subsection (a).

(d) Filing requirement In order to obtain the protections of this section, the claimant of a mining location shall, before the end of the assessment year in which military service is begun or within 60 days after the end of such assessment year, cause to be filed in the office where the location notice or certificate is recorded a notice communicating the fact of military service and the desire to hold the mining claim under this section.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title V, § 504, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2856](/us/stat/117/2856).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 564 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 504 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. V, [54 Stat. 1187](/us/stat/54/1187); [Pub. L. 102–12, § 9(19)](/us/pl/102/12/s9/19), Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 40](/us/stat/105/40), related to desert-land entries and the suspension of requirements, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189). See [section 3993 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3993).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
