---
title: "§ 285b–9. HHS valvular heart disease activities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285b–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285b–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–244, § 2](/us/pl/117/244/s2), Dec. 20, 2022, [136 Stat. 2340](/us/stat/136/2340).)"
---
# § 285b–9. HHS valvular heart disease activities

##### § 285b–9. HHS valvular heart disease activities

(a) In general The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) shall, as appropriate, continue activities related to research, education, and awareness of valvular heart diseases.

(b) NIH research related to valvular heart diseases

(1) In general The Director of the National Institutes of Health, in consultation with the Director of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, may support or conduct research regarding valvular heart diseases.

(2) Support further research In order to improve information on, and understanding of, causation and risk factors for valvular heart diseases, research conducted or supported under this subsection for such diseases may include the following:

(A) Use of advanced technological imaging and other relevant methods to generate data related to valvular heart diseases.

(B) Assessing potential risk factors for sudden cardiac arrest or sudden cardiac death from valvular heart diseases.

(C) Other activities, as appropriate, in order to improve the availability of information on, and advance research related to, valvular heart diseases.

(3) Mitral valve prolapse workshop Not later than 2 years after December 20, 2022, the Director of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute shall, as appropriate, convene a workshop composed of subject matter experts and stakeholders to identify research needs and opportunities to develop recommendations for the identification and treatment of individuals with mitral valve prolapse, including such individuals who may be at risk for sudden cardiac arrest or sudden cardiac death.

(c) Prevention activities to improve awareness of sudden cardiac death as a result of valvular heart diseases

(1) In general The Secretary may carry out activities to increase education and awareness of valvular heart diseases in order to reduce the incidence of sudden cardiac death caused by such diseases. The Secretary may—

(A) award grants or contracts to public or nonprofit private entities to carry out activities under this subsection; and

(B) directly, or through grants or contracts, provide technical assistance with respect to such activities.

(2) Certain activities Upon availability of applicable data, projects carried out under paragraph (1) may include—

(A) continuing activities at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention related to valvular heart diseases;

(B) improving the awareness of the public concerning any risk factors for, the symptoms of, and the public health impact of, valvular heart diseases; and

(C) enhancing public health data collection and improving the quality of such data, as appropriate, regarding cardiac arrests, including cardiac arrests that occur outside of the hospital.

(3) Grant prioritization The Secretary may, in awarding grants or entering into contracts pursuant to paragraph (1), give priority to entities seeking to carry out projects for populations most impacted by valvular heart diseases.

(4) Coordination of activities The Secretary shall, as appropriate, ensure that activities under this section are coordinated with other agencies and offices of the Department of Health and Human Services that carry out activities regarding valvular heart diseases.

(5) Best practices The Secretary shall, as applicable and appropriate, identify and disseminate best practices for relevant health care providers related to valvular heart diseases.

(d) Authorization of appropriations For purposes of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $28,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([Pub. L. 117–244, § 2](/us/pl/117/244/s2), Dec. 20, 2022, [136 Stat. 2340](/us/stat/136/2340).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Cardiovascular Advances in Research and Opportunities Legacy Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
