---
title: "§ 20942. Project Safe Childhood"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20942"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20942"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 143](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s143), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 604](/us/stat/120/604).)"
---
# § 20942. Project Safe Childhood

##### § 20942. Project Safe Childhood

(a) Establishment of program Not later than 6 months after July 27, 2006, the Attorney General shall create and maintain a Project Safe Childhood program in accordance with this section.

(b) Initial implementation Except as authorized under subsection (c), funds authorized under this section may only be used for the following 5 purposes:

(1) Integrated Federal, State, and local efforts to investigate and prosecute child exploitation cases, including—

(A) the partnership by each United States Attorney with each Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force that is a part of the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program authorized and funded under title IV of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 ([42 U.S.C. 5771](/us/usc/t42/s5771) et seq.) 11 See References in Text note below. (referred to in this section as the “ICAC Task Force Program”) that exists within the district of such attorney;

(B) the partnership by each United States Attorney with other Federal, State, and local law enforcement partners working in the district of such attorney to implement the program described in subsection (a);

(C) the development by each United States Attorney of a district-specific strategic plan to coordinate the investigation and prosecution of child exploitation crimes;

(D) efforts to identify and rescue victims of child exploitation crimes; and

(E) local training, educational, and awareness programs of such crimes.

(2) Major case coordination by the Department of Justice (or other Federal agencies as appropriate), including specific integration or cooperation, as appropriate, of—

(A) the Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section within the Department of Justice;

(B) the Innocent Images Unit of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;

(C) any task forces established in connection with the Project Safe Childhood program set forth under subsection (a); and

(D) the High Tech Investigative Unit within the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice.

(3) Increased Federal involvement in child pornography and enticement cases by providing additional investigative tools and increased penalties under Federal law.

(4) Training of Federal, State, and local law enforcement through programs facilitated by—

(A) the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children;

(B) the ICAC Task Force Program; and

(C) any other ongoing program regarding the investigation and prosecution of computer-facilitated crimes against children, including training and coordination regarding leads from—

(i) Federal law enforcement operations; and

(ii) the CyberTipline and Child Victim-Identification programs managed and maintained by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.

(5) Community awareness and educational programs through partnerships to provide national public awareness and educational programs through—

(A) the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children;

(B) the ICAC Task Force Program; and

(C) any other ongoing programs that—

(i) raises 22 So in original. national awareness about the threat of online sexual predators; or

(ii) provides ^2 information to parents and children seeking to report possible violations of computer-facilitated crimes against children.

(c) Expansion of project safe childhood Notwithstanding subsection (b), funds authorized under this section may be also be ^2 used for the following purposes:

(1) The addition of not less than 8 Assistant United States Attorneys at the Department of Justice dedicated to the prosecution of cases in connection with the Project Safe Childhood program set forth under subsection (a).

(2) The creation, development, training, and deployment of not less than 10 new Internet Crimes Against Children task forces within the ICAC Task Force Program consisting of Federal, State, and local law enforcement personnel dedicated to the Project Safe Childhood program set forth under subsection (a), and the enhancement of the forensic capacities of existing Internet Crimes Against Children task forces.

(3) The development and enhancement by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the Innocent Images task forces.

(4) Such other additional and related purposes as the Attorney General determines appropriate.

(d) Authorization of appropriations For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated—

(1) for the activities described under subsection (b)—

(A) $18,000,000 for fiscal year 2007; and

(B) such sums as may be necessary for each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years; and

(2) for the activities described under subsection (c)—

(A) for fiscal year 2007—

(i) $15,000,000 for the activities under paragraph (1);

(ii) $10,000,000 for activities under paragraph (2); and

(iii) $4,000,000 for activities under paragraph (3); and

(B) such sums as may be necessary for each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 143](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s143), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 604](/us/stat/120/604).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(A), is [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1109](/us/stat/88/1109). Title IV of the Act was classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 5771 et seq.) of chapter 72 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as subchapter IV (§ 11291 et seq.) of chapter 111 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1974 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16942 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16942), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
