---
title: "§ 3003. Congressional declaration of additional objectives"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3003"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3003"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–29, title I, § 101](/us/pl/93/29/tI/s101), May 3, 1973, [87 Stat. 30](/us/stat/87/30); [Pub. L. 97–115, § 3(d)](/us/pl/97/115/s3/d), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1597](/us/stat/95/1597).)"
---
# § 3003. Congressional declaration of additional objectives

##### § 3003. Congressional declaration of additional objectives

(1) make available comprehensive programs which include a full range of health, education, and supportive services to our older citizens who need them,

(2) give full and special consideration to older citizens with special needs in planning such programs, and, pending the availability of such programs for all older citizens, give priority to the elderly with the greatest economic and social need.

(3) provide comprehensive programs which will assure the coordinated delivery of a full range of essential services to our older citizens, and, where applicable, also furnish meaningful employment opportunities for many individuals, including older persons, young persons, and volunteers from the community, and

(4) insure that the planning and operation of such programs will be undertaken as a partnership of older citizens, community agencies, and State and local governments, with appropriate assistance from the Federal Government.

*([Pub. L. 93–29, title I, § 101](/us/pl/93/29/tI/s101), May 3, 1973, [87 Stat. 30](/us/stat/87/30); [Pub. L. 97–115, § 3(d)](/us/pl/97/115/s3/d), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1597](/us/stat/95/1597).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, means [Pub. L. 93–29](/us/pl/93/29), May 3, 1973, [87 Stat. 30](/us/stat/87/30), known as the Older Americans Comprehensive Services Amendments of 1973. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1973 Amendment note set out under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3001) and Tables.

The Older Americans Act of 1965, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 89–73](/us/pl/89/73), July 14, 1965, [79 Stat. 218](/us/stat/79/218), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3001) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Older Americans Act of 1965 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1981—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 97–115](/us/pl/97/115) substituted “supportive services” for “social services”.
