---
title: "§ 3734. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities with Russian Federation"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3734"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3734"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XIII, § 1334](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tXIII/s1334), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3603](/us/stat/128/3603).)"
---
# § 3734. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities with Russian Federation

##### § 3734. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities with Russian Federation

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that—

(1) the United States should carry out activities under the Program in the Russian Federation only if those activities are consistent with and in support of the security interests of the United States; and

(2) in carrying out any such activities after December 19, 2014, the Secretary of Defense should focus on only those activities that—

(A) are in support of the arms control obligations of the United States and the Russian Federation; or

(B) will reduce the threats posed by weapons of mass destruction and related materials and technology to the United States and countries in the Euro-Atlantic and Eurasian regions.

(b) Completion of Cooperative Threat Reduction activities in Russian Federation Cooperative Threat Reduction funds made available for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2015 may not be obligated or expended for activities in the Russian Federation unless such activities in Russia are specifically authorized by law.

*([Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XIII, § 1334](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tXIII/s1334), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3603](/us/stat/128/3603).)*
