---
title: "§ 3310. Establishment of Appraisal Subcommittee"
identifier: "USC-T12-S3310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section3310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–630, title X, § 1011](/us/pl/95/630/tX/s1011), as added [Pub. L. 101–73, title XI, § 1102](/us/pl/101/73/tXI/s1102), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 511](/us/stat/103/511); amended [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1473(s)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1473/s), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2199](/us/stat/124/2199).)"
---
# § 3310. Establishment of Appraisal Subcommittee

##### § 3310. Establishment of Appraisal Subcommittee

There shall be within the Council a subcommittee to be known as the “Appraisal Subcommittee”, which shall consist of the designees of the heads of the Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Each such designee shall be a person who has demonstrated knowledge and competence concerning the appraisal profession. At all times at least one member of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall have demonstrated knowledge and competence through licensure, certification, or professional designation within the appraisal profession.

*([Pub. L. 95–630, title X, § 1011](/us/pl/95/630/tX/s1011), as added [Pub. L. 101–73, title XI, § 1102](/us/pl/101/73/tXI/s1102), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 511](/us/stat/103/511); amended [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1473(s)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1473/s), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2199](/us/stat/124/2199).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) inserted “, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency” after “agencies” and “At all times at least one member of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall have demonstrated knowledge and competence through licensure, certification, or professional designation within the appraisal profession.” at the end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the date on which final regulations implementing that amendment take effect, or on the date that is 18 months after the designated transfer date if such regulations have not been issued by that date, see [section 1400(c) of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1400/c), set out as a note under [section 1601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1601), Commerce and Trade.
