---
title: "§ 50304. Powers"
identifier: "USC-T36-S50304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section50304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1344](/us/stat/112/1344).)"
---
# § 50304. Powers

##### § 50304. Powers

(1) adopt a constitution, bylaws, and regulations to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

(2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

(3) adopt emblems and badges;

(4) establish and maintain offices to conduct its activities;

(5) establish State and territorial organizations and local chapter or post organizations;

(6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

(7) publish a newspaper and other publications devoted to the purposes of the corporation;

(8) sue and be sued; and

(9) do any other act necessary or proper to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1344](/us/stat/112/1344).)*

In this section, the text of 36:90g is omitted as executed and obsolete.

In clause (1), the words “not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or any State” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (2), the words “at pleasure” are omitted for consistency in the revised title.

In clause (3), the words “adopt emblems and badges” are substituted for “to use in carrying out the purposes of the corporation such emblems and badges as it may adopt” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

In clause (4), the word “activities” is substituted for “business” for consistency in the revised title.

Clause (6) is substituted for “receive, hold, own, use, and dispose of such real estate and personal property as shall be necessary for its corporate purposes” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

In clause (8), the words “in courts of law and equity” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (9), the words “and things as may be” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 50304 | 36:90d (less perpetual succession). | June 17, 1932, ch. 268, §§ 4 (less perpetual succession), 7, 47 Stat. 321. |
|  | 36:90g. |  |
