---
title: "§ 56308. Transfer of substitute vessels"
identifier: "USC-T46-S56308"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section56308"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 115–91, div. C, title XXXV, § 3502(a)(2)](/us/pl/115/91/dC/tXXXV/s3502/a/2), (b)(5), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1910](/us/stat/131/1910).)"
---
# § 56308. Transfer of substitute vessels

##### § 56308. Transfer of substitute vessels

In the case of any vessel constructed in the United States after January 1, 1937, which has been taken by the United States for use in any manner, the Secretary of Transportation, if in his opinion the transfer would aid in carrying out the policies of this Act,11 See References in Text note below. is authorized to transfer to the owner of such vessel another vessel which is deemed by the Secretary to be of comparable type with adjustments for depreciation and difference in design or speed, and to the extent applicable, such other adjustments and terms and conditions, including transfer of mortgage obligations in favor of the United States binding upon the old vessel, as the Secretary may prescribe.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 115–91, div. C, title XXXV, § 3502(a)(2)](/us/pl/115/91/dC/tXXXV/s3502/a/2), (b)(5), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1910](/us/stat/131/1910).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, means [act Mar. 8, 1946, ch. 82](/us/act/1946-03-08/ch82), [60 Stat. 41](/us/stat/60/41), known as the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946, which was classified principally to chapter 54 (§ 4401 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. The Act has been repealed, except for sections 8(d) and 11, which were transferred to this section and [section 57100 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s57100), respectively, by [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91). Provisions relating to the policies of the Act were contained in [section 4401 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4401) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91).

#### Codification

Section, as added and amended by [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91), is based on [act Mar. 8, 1946, ch. 82, § 8(d)](/us/act/1946-03-08/ch82/s8/d), [60 Stat. 46](/us/stat/60/46), as amended by [Pub. L. 97–31, § 12(154)](/us/pl/97/31/s12/154), Aug. 6, 1981, [95 Stat. 167](/us/stat/95/167), which was formerly classified to [section 4404(d) of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4404/d), War and National Defense, before being transferred to this chapter and renumbered as this section.

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–91, § 3502(b)(5)(C)](/us/pl/115/91/s3502/b/5/C), which directed striking out “adjustments with respect to the retained vessels as provided for in section 9, and”, was executed by striking out “adjustments with respect to the retained vessel as provided for in section 9, and” after “extent applicable,” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

[Pub. L. 115–91, § 3502(b)(5)(B)](/us/pl/115/91/s3502/b/5/B), which directed insertion of “of Transportation” after “Secretary”, was executed by making the insertion after “Secretary” the first time appearing to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

[Pub. L. 115–91, § 3502(b)(5)(A)](/us/pl/115/91/s3502/b/5/A), inserted section enumerator and catchline.

[Pub. L. 115–91, § 3502(a)(2)](/us/pl/115/91/s3502/a/2), transferred section 8(d) of act Mar. 8, 1946, to this chapter and renumbered it as this section. See Codification note above.
