---
title: "§ 11361b. Technical assistance"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11361b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11361b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s405), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title I, § 1103](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tI/s1103), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/123/1677).)"
---
# § 11361b. Technical assistance

##### § 11361b. Technical assistance

(a) In general The Secretary shall make available technical assistance to private nonprofit organizations and other nongovernmental entities, States, metropolitan cities, urban counties, and counties that are not urban counties, to implement effective planning processes for preventing and ending homelessness, to improve their capacity to prepare collaborative applications, to prevent the separation of families in emergency shelter or other housing programs, and to adopt and provide best practices in housing and services for persons experiencing homeless.

(b) Reservation The Secretary shall reserve not more than 1 percent of the funds made available for any fiscal year for carrying out parts B and C, to provide technical assistance under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/100/77/tIV/s405), as added [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, title I, § 1103](/us/pl/111/22/dB/tI/s1103), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/123/1677).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 1103 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1103), which directed amendment of subtitle A of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act by adding this section after section 404, was executed by adding this section following section 404 ([42 U.S.C. 11361a](/us/usc/t42/s11361a)) of subtitle A of title IV of [Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77) (this part), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the earlier of 18 months after May 20, 2009, or 3 months after publication of certain final regulations by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see [section 1503 of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1503), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 11302 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11302).
