---
title: "§ 21021. Payments to States and units of local government to assure access for individuals with disabilities"
identifier: "USC-T52-S21021"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section21021"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 261](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s261), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1698](/us/stat/116/1698).)"
---
# § 21021. Payments to States and units of local government to assure access for individuals with disabilities

##### § 21021. Payments to States and units of local government to assure access for individuals with disabilities

(a) In general The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall make a payment to each eligible State and each eligible unit of local government (as described in [section 21023 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s21023)).

(b) Use of funds An eligible State and eligible unit of local government shall use the payment received under this subpart for—

(1) making polling places, including the path of travel, entrances, exits, and voting areas of each polling facility, accessible to individuals with disabilities, including the blind and visually impaired, in a manner that provides the same opportunity for access and participation (including privacy and independence) as for other voters; and

(2) providing individuals with disabilities and the other individuals described in paragraph (1) with information about the accessibility of polling places, including outreach programs to inform the individuals about the availability of accessible polling places and training election officials, poll workers, and election volunteers on how best to promote the access and participation of individuals with disabilities in elections for Federal office.

(c) Schedule of payments As soon as practicable after October 29, 2002 (but in no event later than 6 months thereafter), and not less frequently than once each calendar year thereafter, the Secretary shall make payments under this subpart.

*([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 261](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s261), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1698](/us/stat/116/1698).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15421 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15421), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
