---
title: "§ 20142. Contracts regarding expendable launch vehicles"
identifier: "USC-T51-S20142"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section20142"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3348](/us/stat/124/3348).)"
---
# § 20142. Contracts regarding expendable launch vehicles

##### § 20142. Contracts regarding expendable launch vehicles

(a) Commitments Beyond Available Appropriations.— The Administrator may enter into contracts for expendable launch vehicle services that are for periods in excess of the period for which funds are otherwise available for obligation, provide for the payment for contingent liability which may accrue in excess of available appropriations in the event the Federal Government for its convenience terminates such contracts, and provide for advance payments reasonably related to launch vehicle and related equipment, fabrication, and acquisition costs, if any such contract limits the amount of the payments that the Government is allowed to make under such contract to amounts provided in advance in appropriation Acts. Such contracts may be limited to sources within the United States when the Administrator determines that such limitation is in the public interest.

(b) Termination if Funds Not Available.— If funds are not available to continue any such contract, the contract shall be terminated for the convenience of the Government, and the costs of such contract shall be paid from appropriations originally available for performance of the contract, from other unobligated appropriations currently available for the procurement of launch services, or from funds appropriated for such payments.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3348](/us/stat/124/3348).)*

In subsection (a), the word “expendable” is substituted for “expendabe” to correct an error in the law.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20142 | 42 U.S.C. 2459c. | Pub. L. 85–568, title III, § 312, formerly § 311, as added Pub. L. 100–147, title I, § 117, Oct. 30, 1987, 101 Stat. 867; renumbered § 312, Pub. L. 106–391, title III, § 324(a)(1), Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1599. |
