---
title: "§ 10108. Availability of funds"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 108](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s108), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1161(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1161/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3118](/us/stat/119/3118); amended [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(g)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/g), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767).)"
---
# § 10108. Availability of funds

##### § 10108. Availability of funds

(a) Period for awarding grant funds

(1) In general Unless otherwise specifically provided in an authorization, DOJ grant funds for a fiscal year shall remain available to be awarded and distributed to a grantee only in that fiscal year and the three succeeding fiscal years, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3). DOJ grant funds not so awarded and distributed shall revert to the Treasury.

(2) Treatment of reprogrammed funds DOJ grant funds for a fiscal year that are reprogrammed in a later fiscal year shall be treated for purposes of paragraph (1) as DOJ grant funds for such later fiscal year.

(3) Treatment of deobligated funds If DOJ grant funds were obligated and then deobligated, the period of availability that applies to those grant funds under paragraph (1) shall be extended by a number of days equal to the number of days from the date on which those grant funds were obligated to the date on which those grant funds were deobligated.

(b) Period for expending grant funds DOJ grant funds for a fiscal year that have been awarded and distributed to a grantee may be expended by that grantee only in the period permitted under the terms of the grant. DOJ grant funds not so expended shall be deobligated.

(c) Definition In this section, the term “DOJ grant funds” means, for a fiscal year, amounts appropriated for activities of the Department of Justice in carrying out grant programs for that fiscal year.

(d) Applicability This section applies to DOJ grant funds for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2006.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 108](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s108), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1161(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1161/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3118](/us/stat/119/3118); amended [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(g)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/g), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3712g of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3712g), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–271](/us/pl/109/271) substituted “be deobligated” for “revert to the Treasury”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1161(b)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1161/b), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3118](/us/stat/119/3118), as amended by [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(n)(4)(B)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/n/4/B), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 768](/us/stat/120/768), provided that: “This section [enacting this section] and the amendment made by this section take effect on October 1, 2006.”
