---
title: "§ 7269c. Funding for Department of Energy activities not included in Fossil Energy account"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7269c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7269c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–161, div. C, title III](/us/pl/110/161/dC/tIII), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1958](/us/stat/121/1958).)"
---
# § 7269c. Funding for Department of Energy activities not included in Fossil Energy account

##### § 7269c. Funding for Department of Energy activities not included in Fossil Energy account

In this Act and future Acts, up to 4 percent of program direction funds available to the National Energy Technology Laboratory may be used to support Department of Energy activities not included in this Fossil Energy account: *Provided further*, That in this Act and future Acts, the salaries for Federal employees performing research and development activities at the National Energy Technology Laboratory can continue to be funded from any appropriate DOE program accounts.

*([Pub. L. 110–161, div. C, title III](/us/pl/110/161/dC/tIII), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1958](/us/stat/121/1958).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is div. C of [Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 1937](/us/stat/121/1937), known as the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section appears under the headings “Department of Energy”, “Energy Programs”, and “Fossil Energy Research and Development” in title III of div. C of [Pub. L. 110–161](/us/pl/110/161). It was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
