---
title: "§ 579. Removal from a promotion list"
identifier: "USC-T10-S579"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section579"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title XI, § 1112(a)](/us/pl/102/190/dA/tXI/s1112/a), Dec. 5, 1991, [105 Stat. 1497](/us/stat/105/1497).)"
---
# § 579. Removal from a promotion list

##### § 579. Removal from a promotion list

(a) The name of a warrant officer recommended for promotion by a selection board convened under this chapter may be removed from the report of the selection board by the President.

(b) The Secretary concerned may remove the name of a warrant officer who is on a promotion list as a result of being recommended for promotion by a selection board convened under this chapter at any time before the promotion is effective.

(c) An officer whose name is removed from the list of officers recommended for promotion by a selection board continues to be eligible for consideration for promotion.

(d) If the next selection board that considers the warrant officer for promotion under this chapter selects the warrant officer for promotion and the warrant officer is promoted, the Secretary concerned may, upon his promotion, grant him the same effective date for pay and allowances and the same date of rank, and the same position on the warrant officer active-duty list as the warrant officer would have had if his name had not been so removed.

(e) If the next selection board does not select the warrant officer for promotion, or if his name is again removed under subsection (a) from the list of officers recommended for promotion by the selection board or under subsection (b) from the warrant officer promotion list, he shall be treated for all purposes as if he has twice failed of selection for promotion.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title XI, § 1112(a)](/us/pl/102/190/dA/tXI/s1112/a), Dec. 5, 1991, [105 Stat. 1497](/us/stat/105/1497).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 562 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s562) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–190, § 1112(a)](/us/pl/102/190/s1112/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Feb. 1, 1992, see [section 1132 of Pub. L. 102–190](/us/pl/102/190/s1132), set out as an Effective Date of 1991 Amendment note under [section 521 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s521).
