---
title: "§ 290i–10. Authorization of United States subscription to stock; authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S290i–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section290i–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–35, title XIII, § 1343](/us/pl/97/35/tXIII/s1343), as added [Pub. L. 100–202, § 101(e) [title I]](/us/pl/100/202/s101/e/tI), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1329–131](/us/stat/101/1329-131), 1329–134.)"
---
# § 290i–10. Authorization of United States subscription to stock; authorization of appropriations

##### § 290i–10. Authorization of United States subscription to stock; authorization of appropriations

(a) The United States Governor of the Bank is authorized to agree to subscribe on behalf of the United States to fifty-nine thousand, six hundred and thirty-two shares of the capital stock of the Bank, except that the subscription shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.

(b) In order to pay for the United States subscription authorized in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $719,370,633, for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.

*([Pub. L. 97–35, title XIII, § 1343](/us/pl/97/35/tXIII/s1343), as added [Pub. L. 100–202, § 101(e) [title I]](/us/pl/100/202/s101/e/tI), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1329–131](/us/stat/101/1329-131), 1329–134.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 1343 of Pub. L. 97–35](/us/pl/97/35/s1343) is based on section 301 of title III of H.R. 3750, One Hundredth Congress, as introduced Dec. 11, 1987, and enacted into law by [Pub. L. 100–202](/us/pl/100/202).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Fifth General Capital Increase

[Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(2) [title V, § 594]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/2/tV/s594), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–122, provided in part that the Secretary of the Treasury may effect the United States participation in the fifth general capital increase of the African Development Bank, and authorized $40,847,011 to be appropriated without fiscal year limitation for payment by the Secretary for paid-in capital of the Bank and $639,932,485 to be appropriated without fiscal year limitation for payment by the Secretary for callable capital of the Bank.
