---
title: "§ 3053. Federal Trade Commission oversight"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3053"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3053"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title XII, § 1204](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tXII/s1204), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3257](/us/stat/134/3257); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. O, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/117/328/dO/tVII/s701), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5231](/us/stat/136/5231).)"
---
# § 3053. Federal Trade Commission oversight

##### § 3053. Federal Trade Commission oversight

(a) In general The Authority shall submit to the Commission, in accordance with such rules as the Commission may prescribe under [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553), any proposed rule, or proposed modification to a rule, of the Authority relating to—

(1) the bylaws of the Authority;

(2) a list of permitted and prohibited medications, substances, and methods, including allowable limits of permitted medications, substances, and methods;

(3) laboratory standards for accreditation and protocols;

(4) standards for racing surface quality maintenance;

(5) racetrack safety standards and protocols;

(6) a program for injury and fatality data analysis;

(7) a program of research and education on safety, performance, and anti-doping and medication control;

(8) a description of safety, performance, and anti-doping and medication control rule violations applicable to covered horses and covered persons;

(9) a schedule of civil sanctions for violations;

(10) a process or procedures for disciplinary hearings; and

(11) a formula or methodology for determining assessments described in [section 3052(f) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3052/f).

(b) Publication and comment

(1) In general The Commission shall—

(A) publish in the Federal Register each proposed rule or modification submitted under subsection (a); and

(B) provide an opportunity for public comment.

(2) Approval required A proposed rule, or a proposed modification to a rule, of the Authority shall not take effect unless the proposed rule or modification has been approved by the Commission.

(c) Decision on proposed rule or modification to a rule

(1) In general Not later than 60 days after the date on which a proposed rule or modification is published in the Federal Register, the Commission shall approve or disapprove the proposed rule or modification.

(2) Conditions The Commission shall approve a proposed rule or modification if the Commission finds that the proposed rule or modification is consistent with—

(A) this chapter; and

(B) applicable rules approved by the Commission.

(3) Revision of proposed rule or modification

(A) In general In the case of disapproval of a proposed rule or modification under this subsection, not later than 30 days after the issuance of the disapproval, the Commission shall make recommendations to the Authority to modify the proposed rule or modification.

(B) Resubmission The Authority may resubmit for approval by the Commission a proposed rule or modification that incorporates the modifications recommended under subparagraph (A).

(d) Proposed standards and procedures

(1) In general The Authority shall submit to the Commission any proposed rule, standard, or procedure developed by the Authority to carry out the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program or the racetrack safety program.

(2) Notice and comment The Commission shall publish in the Federal Register any such proposed rule, standard, or procedure and provide an opportunity for public comment.

(e) Amendment by Commission of rules of authority The Commission, by rule in accordance with [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553), may abrogate, add to, and modify the rules of the Authority promulgated in accordance with this chapter as the Commission finds necessary or appropriate to ensure the fair administration of the Authority, to conform the rules of the Authority to requirements of this chapter and applicable rules approved by the Commission, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title XII, § 1204](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tXII/s1204), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3257](/us/stat/134/3257); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. O, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/117/328/dO/tVII/s701), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5231](/us/stat/136/5231).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (c)(2)(A) and (e), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title XII of div. FF of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) amended subsec. (e) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Commission may adopt an interim final rule, to take effect immediately, under conditions specified in [section 553(b)(B) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553/b/B), if the Commission finds that such a rule is necessary to protect—

“(1) the health and safety of covered horses; or

“(2) the integrity of covered horseraces and wagering on those horseraces.”
