---
title: "§ 4701. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T20-S4701"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section4701"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title XIV, § 1402](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tXIV/s1402), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 4008](/us/stat/100/4008).)"
---
# § 4701. Findings

##### § 4701. Findings

(1) Senator Barry Goldwater of the State of Arizona has served his country for 56 years as a soldier and statesman, including service in the United States Senate for a period of 30 years.

(2) Senator Goldwater has a distinguished record as a Senator, including service as Chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and as Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.

(3) Senator Goldwater has long maintained a special interest in the education of America’s youth, particularly in the fields of science and mathematics.

(4) It would, therefore, be a fitting tribute to the leadership, courage, and vision of Senator Goldwater to establish in his name a scholarship program to foster and encourage excellence in science and mathematics.

*([Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title XIV, § 1402](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tXIV/s1402), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 4008](/us/stat/100/4008).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2021 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXIII, § 6301](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXIII/s6301), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2393](/us/stat/135/2393), provided that: “This title [amending sections 4702, 4704 to 4707, and 4710 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Modernization Act of 2021’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title XIV, § 1401](/us/pl/99/661/dA/tXIV/s1401), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 4007](/us/stat/100/4007), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Act’.”
