---
title: "§ 7711. Regulations"
identifier: "USC-T15-S7711"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section7711"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–187, § 13](/us/pl/108/187/s13), Dec. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 2717](/us/stat/117/2717).)"
---
# § 7711. Regulations

##### § 7711. Regulations

(a) In general The Commission may issue regulations to implement the provisions of this Act (not including the amendments made by sections 4 and 12). Any such regulations shall be issued in accordance with [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553).

(b) Limitation Subsection (a) may not be construed to authorize the Commission to establish a requirement pursuant to [section 7704(a)(5)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7704/a/5/A) to include any specific words, characters, marks, or labels in a commercial electronic mail message, or to include the identification required by [section 7704(a)(5)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7704/a/5/A) in any particular part of such a mail message (such as the subject line or body).

*([Pub. L. 108–187, § 13](/us/pl/108/187/s13), Dec. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 2717](/us/stat/117/2717).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act (not including the amendments made by sections 4 and 12), referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 108–187](/us/pl/108/187), Dec. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 2699](/us/stat/117/2699), which is classified principally to this chapter. Section 4 enacted [section 7703 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7703), [section 1037 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1037), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and provisions listed in a table relating to sentencing guidelines set out as a note under [section 994 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s994), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure. Section 12 amended [section 227 of Title 47](/us/usc/t47/s227), Telecommunications. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7701) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 2004, see [section 16 of Pub. L. 108–187](/us/pl/108/187/s16), set out as a note under [section 7701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7701).
