---
title: "§ 10109. Office of Audit, Assessment, and Management"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10109"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10109"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 109](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s109), formerly § 105, as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1158(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1158/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3114](/us/stat/119/3114); renumbered § 109, [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(e)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/e), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 766](/us/stat/120/766).)"
---
# § 10109. Office of Audit, Assessment, and Management

##### § 10109. Office of Audit, Assessment, and Management

(a) Establishment

(1) In general There is established within the Office an Office of Audit, Assessment, and Management, headed by a Director appointed by the Attorney General. In carrying out the functions of the Office, the Director shall be subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Attorney General. Such authority, direction, and control may be delegated only to the Assistant Attorney General, without redelegation.

(2) Purpose The purpose of the Office shall be to carry out and coordinate program assessments of, take actions to ensure compliance with the terms of, and manage information with respect to, grants under programs covered by subsection (b). The Director shall take special conditions of the grant into account and consult with the office that issued those conditions to ensure appropriate compliance.

(3) Exclusivity The Office shall be the exclusive element of the Department of Justice, other than the Inspector General, performing functions and activities for the purpose specified in paragraph (2). There are hereby transferred to the Office all functions and activities, other than functions and activities of the Inspector General, for such purpose performed immediately before January 5, 2006, by any other element of the Department.

(b) Covered programs The programs referred to in subsection (a) are the following:

(1) The program under subchapter XVI of this chapter.

(2) Any grant program carried out by the Office of Justice Programs.

(3) Any other grant program carried out by the Department of Justice that the Attorney General considers appropriate.

(c) Program assessments required

(1) In general The Director shall select grants awarded under the programs covered by subsection (b) and carry out program assessments on such grants. In selecting such grants, the Director shall ensure that the aggregate amount awarded under the grants so selected represent not less than 10 percent of the aggregate amount of money awarded under all such grant programs.

(2) Relationship to NIJ evaluations This subsection does not affect the authority or duty of the Director of the National Institute of Justice to carry out overall evaluations of programs covered by subsection (b), except that such Director shall consult with the Director of the Office in carrying out such evaluations.

(3) Timing of program assessments The program assessment required by paragraph (1) of a grant selected under paragraph (1) shall be carried out—

(A) not later than the end of the grant period, if the grant period is not more than 1 year; and

(B) at the end of each year of the grant period, if the grant period is more than 1 year.

(d) Compliance actions required The Director shall take such actions to ensure compliance with the terms of a grant as the Director considers appropriate with respect to each grant that the Director determines (in consultation with the head of the element of the Department of Justice concerned), through a program assessment under subsection (a) or other means, is not in compliance with such terms. In the case of a misuse of more than 1 percent of the grant amount concerned, the Director shall, in addition to any other action to ensure compliance that the Director considers appropriate, ensure that the entity responsible for such misuse ceases to receive any funds under any program covered by subsection (b) until such entity repays to the Attorney General an amount equal to the amounts misused. The Director may, in unusual circumstances, grant relief from this requirement to ensure that an innocent party is not punished.

(e) Grant management system The Director shall establish and maintain, in consultation with the chief information officer of the Office, a modern, automated system for managing all information relating to the grants made under the programs covered by subsection (b).

(f) Availability of funds Not to exceed 3 percent of all funding made available for a fiscal year for the programs covered by subsection (b) shall be reserved for the Office of Audit, Assessment and Management for the activities authorized by this section.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 109](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s109), formerly § 105, as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1158(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1158/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3114](/us/stat/119/3114); renumbered § 109, [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(e)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/e), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 766](/us/stat/120/766).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

January 5, 2006, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), was in the original “the date of the enactment of this Act” and was translated as meaning the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162), which enacted this section, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3712h of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3712h), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was also formerly classified to [section 3712d of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3712d) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 109–271](/us/pl/109/271) and transfer to [section 3712h of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3712h).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1158(b)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1158/b), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3116](/us/stat/119/3116), as amended by [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(n)(3)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/n/3), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 768](/us/stat/120/768), provided that: “(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), section 109 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3712d](/us/usc/t42/s3712d) [3712h]) [now [34 U.S.C. 10109](/us/usc/t34/s10109)] shall take effect on April 5, 2006. “(2) Certain provisions.—Subsections (c), (d), and (e) of section 109 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3712d](/us/usc/t42/s3712d) [3712h]) [now [34 U.S.C. 10109](/us/usc/t34/s10109)] shall take effect on October 1, 2006.”
