---
title: "§ 2304. Prohibited personnel practices affecting the Transportation Security Administration"
identifier: "USC-T5-S2304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section2304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–199, title I, § 109(a)(2)](/us/pl/112/199/tI/s109/a/2), Nov. 27, 2012, [126 Stat. 1470](/us/stat/126/1470).)"
---
# § 2304. Prohibited personnel practices affecting the Transportation Security Administration

##### § 2304. Prohibited personnel practices affecting the Transportation Security Administration

(a) In General.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any individual holding or applying for a position within the Transportation Security Administration shall be covered by—

(1) the provisions of section 2302(b)(1), (8), and (9);

(2) any provision of law implementing section 2302(b)(1), (8), or (9) by providing any right or remedy available to an employee or applicant for employment in the civil service; and

(3) any rule or regulation prescribed under any provision of law referred to in paragraph (1) or (2).

(b) Rule of Construction.— Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rights, apart from those described in subsection (a), to which an individual described in subsection (a) might otherwise be entitled under law.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–199, title I, § 109(a)(2)](/us/pl/112/199/tI/s109/a/2), Nov. 27, 2012, [126 Stat. 1470](/us/stat/126/1470).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2304 was renumbered [section 2305 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s2305).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 112–199, title I, § 109(c)](/us/pl/112/199/tI/s109/c), Nov. 27, 2012, [126 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/126/1471), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section and renumbering sections 2304 and 2305 of this title as sections 2305 and 2306, respectively, of this title] shall take effect on the date of enactment of this section [Nov. 27, 2012].”
