---
title: "§ 9092. Pandemic relief for aviation workers"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9092"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9092"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tIV/s402), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2053](/us/stat/134/2053).)"
---
# § 9092. Pandemic relief for aviation workers

##### § 9092. Pandemic relief for aviation workers

(a) Financial assistance for employee wages, salaries, and benefits Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to preserve aviation jobs and compensate air carrier industry workers, the Secretary shall provide financial assistance that shall exclusively be used for the continuation of payment of employee wages, salaries, and benefits to—

(1) passenger air carriers, in an aggregate amount up to $15,000,000,000; and

(2) contractors, in an aggregate amount up to $1,000,000,000.

(b) Administrative expenses Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may use funds made available under [section 9072(b) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s9072/b) for costs and administrative expenses associated with providing financial assistance under this part.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tIV/s402), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2053](/us/stat/134/2053).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 401–412) of title IV of div. N of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2052](/us/stat/134/2052), which enacted this part and amended sections 9041, 9071, and 9074 of this title. For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, and not as part of the CARES Act which in part comprises this chapter.
