---
title: "§ 3624. Additional program funding"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3624"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3624"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–465, title IV, § 426](/us/pl/103/465/tIV/s426), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4966](/us/stat/108/4966).)"
---
# § 3624. Additional program funding

##### § 3624. Additional program funding

(a) Use of additional funds Consistent, as determined by the President, with the obligations undertaken by the United States set forth in the Uruguay Round Agreements, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall use, in addition to any other funds appropriated or made available for such purposes, any funds made available under subsection (b) for authorized export promotion, foreign market development, export credit financing, and promoting the development, commercialization, and marketing of products resulting from alternative uses of agricultural commodities.

(b) Amount of additional funds Amounts shall be credited to the Commodity Credit Corporation in fiscal year 1995 equal to the lesser of the dollar amount of—

under [section 902 of title 2](/us/usc/t2/s902), resulting from the enactment of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform Act of 1994.

(1) the fiscal year 1995 Pay-As-You-Go savings; and

(2) the 5-year Pay-As-You-Go savings;

(c) Effective date This section shall take effect on December 8, 1994.

*([Pub. L. 103–465, title IV, § 426](/us/pl/103/465/tIV/s426), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4966](/us/stat/108/4966).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Crop Insurance Reform Act of 1994, referred to in subsec. (b), is title I of [Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3179](/us/stat/108/3179). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Amendment note set out under [section 1501 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s1501), Agriculture, and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date of entry into force of the WTO Agreement with respect to the United States (Jan. 1, 1995), except as otherwise provided, see [section 451 of Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465/s451), set out as a note under [section 3601 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3601).
