---
title: "§ 1514. Enforcement in House of Representatives"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1514"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1514"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–4, title I, § 107](/us/pl/104/4/tI/s107), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 63](/us/stat/109/63).)"
---
# § 1514. Enforcement in House of Representatives

##### § 1514. Enforcement in House of Representatives

(a) Omitted

(b) Committee on Rules reports on waived points of order The Committee on Rules shall include in the report required by clause 1(d) 11 See References in Text note below. of rule XI (relating to its activities during the Congress) of the Rules of the House of Representatives a separate item identifying all waivers of points of order relating to Federal mandates, listed by bill or joint resolution number and the subject matter of that measure.

*([Pub. L. 104–4, title I, § 107](/us/pl/104/4/tI/s107), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 63](/us/stat/109/63).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Clause 1(d) of Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives, referred to in subsec. (b), was amended generally by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 107 of Pub. L. 104–4](/us/pl/104/4/s107). Subsec. (a) of [section 107 of Pub. L. 104–4](/us/pl/104/4/s107) amended the Rules of the House of Representatives, which are not classified to the Code.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, or on the date 90 days after appropriations are made available as authorized under [section 1516 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1516), whichever is earlier, and applicable to legislation considered on and after such date, see [section 110 of Pub. L. 104–4](/us/pl/104/4/s110), set out as a note under [section 1511 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1511).
