---
title: "§ 1451. Congressional declaration of policy"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1451"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1451"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–755, § 2](/us/pl/89/755/s2), Nov. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 1296](/us/stat/80/1296).)"
---
# § 1451. Congressional declaration of policy

##### § 1451. Congressional declaration of policy

Informed consumers are essential to the fair and efficient functioning of a free market economy. Packages and their labels should enable consumers to obtain accurate information as to the quantity of the contents and should facilitate value comparisons. Therefore, it is hereby declared to be the policy of the Congress to assist consumers and manufacturers in reaching these goals in the marketing of consumer goods.

*([Pub. L. 89–755, § 2](/us/pl/89/755/s2), Nov. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 1296](/us/stat/80/1296).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 89–755, § 13](/us/pl/89/755/s13), Nov. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 1302](/us/stat/80/1302), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] shall take effect on July 1, 1967: *Provided*, That the Secretary (with respect to any consumer commodity which is a food, drug, device, or cosmetic, as those terms are defined by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) [section 301 et seq. of Title 21, Food and Drugs], and the Commission (with respect to any other consumer commodity) may by regulation postpone, for an additional twelve-month period, the effective date of this Act [this chapter] with respect to any class or type of consumer commodity on the basis of a finding that such a postponement would be in the public interest.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 89–755, § 1](/us/pl/89/755/s1), Nov. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 1296](/us/stat/80/1296), provided: “That this Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Fair Packaging and Labeling Act’.”
