---
title: "§ 1962c–2. State programs; approval by Council; submission; requirements; notice and hearing prior to disapproval"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1962c–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1962c–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–80, title III, § 303](/us/pl/89/80/tIII/s303), July 22, 1965, [79 Stat. 252](/us/stat/79/252); [Pub. L. 113–287, § 5(k)(1)](/us/pl/113/287/s5/k/1), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3269](/us/stat/128/3269).)"
---
# § 1962c–2. State programs; approval by Council; submission; requirements; notice and hearing prior to disapproval

##### § 1962c–2. State programs; approval by Council; submission; requirements; notice and hearing prior to disapproval

(1) provides for comprehensive planning with respect to intrastate or interstate water resources, or both, in such State to meet the needs for water and water-related activities taking into account prospective demands for all purposes served through or affected by water and related land resources development, with adequate provision for coordination with all Federal, State, and local agencies, and nongovernmental entities having responsibilities in affected fields;

(2) provides, where comprehensive statewide development planning is being carried on with or without assistance under section 701 of the Housing Act of 1954 11 See References in Text note below. or under chapter 2003 of title 54, for full coordination between comprehensive water resources planning and other statewide planning programs and for assurances that such water resources planning will be in conformity with the general development policy in such State;

(3) designates a State agency (hereinafter referred to as the “State agency”) to administer the program;

(4) provides that the State agency will make such reports in such form and containing such information as the Council from time to time reasonably requires to carry out its functions under this subchapter;

(5) sets forth the procedure to be followed in carrying out the State program and in administering such program; and

(6) provides such accounting, budgeting, and other fiscal methods and procedures as are necessary for keeping appropriate accountability of the funds and for the proper and efficient administration of the program.

*([Pub. L. 89–80, title III, § 303](/us/pl/89/80/tIII/s303), July 22, 1965, [79 Stat. 252](/us/stat/79/252); [Pub. L. 113–287, § 5(k)(1)](/us/pl/113/287/s5/k/1), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3269](/us/stat/128/3269).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 701 of the Housing Act of 1954, referred to in par. (2), is section 701 of [act Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649](/us/act/1954-08-02/ch649), [68 Stat. 640](/us/stat/68/640), which was classified to section 461 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and was repealed by [Pub. L. 97–35, title III, § 313(b)](/us/pl/97/35/tIII/s313/b), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 398](/us/stat/95/398).

#### Amendments

2014—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287) substituted “chapter 2003 of title 54” for “the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965”.
