---
title: "§ 12473. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12473"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12473"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41403](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41403), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/109/162/tVI/s601), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/119/3031); amended [Pub. L. 113–4, title VI, § 601(a)(3)](/us/pl/113/4/tVI/s601/a/3), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 102](/us/stat/127/102).)"
---
# § 12473. Definitions

##### § 12473. Definitions

(1) the term “assisted housing” means housing assisted—

(A) under sections 11 So in original. Probably should be “section”. 1715e, 1715k, 1715*l*(d)(3), 1715*l*(d)(4), 1715n(e), 1715v, or 1715z–1 of title 12;

(B) under [section 1701s of title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1701s);

(C) under [section 1701q of title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1701q);

(D) under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzales 22 So in original. Probably should be “Cranston-Gonzalez”. National Affordable Housing Act ([42 U.S.C. 8013](/us/usc/t42/s8013));

(E) under title II of the Cranston-Gonzales ^2 National Affordable Housing Act [[42 U.S.C. 12721](/us/usc/t42/s12721) et seq.];

(F) under subtitle D of title VIII of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act ([42 U.S.C. 12901](/us/usc/t42/s12901) et seq.);

(G) under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 ([42 U.S.C. 5301](/us/usc/t42/s5301) et seq.); or

(H) under [section 1437f of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1437f);

(2) the term “continuum of care” means a community plan developed to organize and deliver housing and services to meet the specific needs of people who are homeless as they move to stable housing and achieve maximum self-sufficiency;

(3) the term “low-income housing assistance voucher” means housing assistance described in [section 1437f of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1437f);

(4) the term “public housing” means housing described in [section 1437a(b)(1) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1437a/b/1);

(5) the term “public housing agency” means an agency described in [section 1437a(b)(6) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1437a/b/6);

(6) the terms “homeless”, “homeless individual”, and “homeless person”—

(A) mean an individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence; and

(B) includes—

(i) an individual who—

(I) is sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or a similar reason;

(II) is living in a motel, hotel, trailer park, or campground due to the lack of alternative adequate accommodations;

(III) is living in an emergency or transitional shelter;

(IV) is abandoned in a hospital; or

(V) is awaiting foster care placement;

(ii) an individual who has a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings; or

(iii) migratory children (as defined in [section 6399 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s6399)) who qualify as homeless under this section because the children are living in circumstances described in this paragraph;

(7) the term “homeless service provider” means a nonprofit, nongovernmental homeless service provider, such as a homeless shelter, a homeless service or advocacy program, a tribal organization serving homeless individuals, or coalition or other nonprofit, nongovernmental organization carrying out a community-based homeless or housing program that has a documented history of effective work concerning homelessness;

(8) the term “tribally designated housing” means housing assistance described in the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 ([25 U.S.C. 4101](/us/usc/t25/s4101) et seq.); and

(9) the term “tribally designated housing entity” means a housing entity described in the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 ([25 U.S.C. 4103(21)](/us/usc/t25/s4103/21)); 33 So in original. The semicolon probably should be a period.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41403](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41403), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/109/162/tVI/s601), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/119/3031); amended [Pub. L. 113–4, title VI, § 601(a)(3)](/us/pl/113/4/tVI/s601/a/3), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 102](/us/stat/127/102).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, referred to in par. (1)(E), (F), is [Pub. L. 101–625](/us/pl/101/625), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4079](/us/stat/104/4079). Title II of the Act, known as the HOME Investment Partnerships Act, is classified principally to subchapter II (§ 12721 et seq.) of chapter 130 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Subtitle D of title VIII of the Act, known as the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act, is classified generally to chapter 131 (§ 12901 et seq.) of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 12701 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s12701) and Tables.

The Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, referred to in par. (1)(G), is [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 633](/us/stat/88/633). Title I of the Act is classified principally to chapter 69 (§ 5301 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5301) and Tables.

The Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, referred to in pars. (8) and (9), is [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4016](/us/stat/110/4016), which is classified principally to chapter 43 (§ 4101 et seq.) of Title 25, Indians. Par. (21) of [section 4103 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s4103) was redesignated par. (22) by [Pub. L. 110–411, § 3(2)](/us/pl/110/411/s3/2), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4320](/us/stat/122/4320). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4101 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s4101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14043e–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14043e–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2013—[Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) substituted “subpart” for “part” in introductory provisions.
