---
title: "§ 41507. Authority of the Secretary of Transportation to change prices, classifications, rules, and practices for foreign air transportation"
identifier: "USC-T49-S41507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section41507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/108/1134).)"
---
# § 41507. Authority of the Secretary of Transportation to change prices, classifications, rules, and practices for foreign air transportation

##### § 41507. Authority of the Secretary of Transportation to change prices, classifications, rules, and practices for foreign air transportation

(a) General.— When the Secretary of Transportation decides that a price charged or received by an air carrier or foreign air carrier for foreign air transportation, or a classification, rule, or practice affecting that price or the value of the transportation provided under that price, is or will be unreasonably discriminatory, the Secretary may—

(1) change the price, classification, rule, or practice as necessary to correct the discrimination; and

(2) order the air carrier or foreign air carrier to stop charging or collecting the discriminatory price or carrying out the discriminatory classification, rule, or practice.

(b) When Secretary May Act.— The Secretary may act under this section on the Secretary’s own initiative or on a complaint filed with the Secretary and only after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/108/1134).)*

In subsection (a), before clause (1), the words “individual or joint” are omitted as surplus. The words “charged or received” are substituted for “demanded, charged, collected, or received” to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “unreasonably discriminatory” are substituted for “unjustly discriminatory, or unduly preferential, or unduly prejudicial” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. See the revision notes following 49:10101. In clause (2), the words “carrying out” are substituted for “enforcing” for clarity.

In subsection (b), the words “opportunity for a” are added for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 41507(a) | 49 App.:1482(f) (words after 4th comma). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, § 1002(f), 72 Stat. 789. |
|  | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 1601(b)(1)(E); added Oct. 4, 1984, Pub. L. 98–443, § 3(e), 98 Stat. 1704. |
| 41507(b) | 49 App.:1482(f) (words before 4th comma). |  |
|  | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). |  |
