---
title: "§ 15302. Decisions"
identifier: "USC-T40-S15302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section15302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1470](/us/stat/122/1470), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2232; amended [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2242(b)](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2242/b), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3202](/us/stat/138/3202).)"
---
# § 15302. Decisions

##### § 15302. Decisions

(a) Requirements for Approval.— Except as provided in section 15304(c)(3), decisions by the Commission shall require the affirmative vote of the Federal Cochairperson and a majority of the State members or alternate State members, including designees (exclusive of members representing States delinquent under section 15304(c)(3)(C)).

(b) Consultation.— In matters coming before the Commission, the Federal Cochairperson shall, to the extent practicable, consult with the Federal departments and agencies having an interest in the subject matter.

(c) Quorums.—

(1) In general.— Subject to paragraph (2), a Commission shall determine what constitutes a quorum for meetings of the Commission.

(2) Requirements.— Any quorum for meetings of a Commission shall include—

(A) the Federal Cochairperson or the alternate Federal Cochairperson; and

(B) a majority of State members or alternate State members, including designees (exclusive of members representing States delinquent under section 15304(c)(3)(C)).

(d) Projects and Grant Proposals.— The approval of project and grant proposals shall be a responsibility of each Commission and shall be carried out in accordance with section 15503.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1470](/us/stat/122/1470), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2232; amended [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2242(b)](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2242/b), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3202](/us/stat/138/3202).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2242(b)(1)](/us/pl/118/272/s2242/b/1), inserted “or alternate State members, including designees” after “State members”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2242(b)(2)](/us/pl/118/272/s2242/b/2), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “A Commission shall determine what constitutes a quorum for Commission meetings; except that—

“(1) any quorum shall include the Federal Cochairperson or the alternate Federal Cochairperson; and

“(2) a State alternate member shall not be counted toward the establishment of a quorum.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after June 18, 2008, see [section 14217(d) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s14217/d), set out as a note under [section 15101 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s15101).
