---
title: "§ 2655b. Diplomatic presence overseas"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2655b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2655b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–228, div. B, title XVI, § 1604](/us/pl/107/228/dB/tXVI/s1604), Sept. 30, 2002, [116 Stat. 1460](/us/stat/116/1460).)"
---
# § 2655b. Diplomatic presence overseas

##### § 2655b. Diplomatic presence overseas

(a) Purpose The purpose of this section is to—

(1) elevate the stature given United States diplomatic initiatives relating to nonproliferation and political-military issues; and

(2) develop a group of highly specialized, technical experts with country expertise capable of administering the nonproliferation and political-military affairs functions of the Department.

(b) Authority To carry out the purposes of subsection (a), the Secretary is authorized to establish the position of Counselor for Nonproliferation and Political Military Affairs in United States diplomatic missions overseas, to be filled by individuals who are career Civil Service officers or Foreign Service officers committed to follow-on assignments in the Nonproliferation Bureau or the Political Military Affairs Bureau of the Department.

(c) Training After being selected to serve as Counselor, any person so selected shall spend not less than 10 months in language training courses at the Foreign Service Institute,11 See Change of Name note below. or in technical courses administered by the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, or other appropriate departments and agencies of the United States, except that such requirement for training may be waived by the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 107–228, div. B, title XVI, § 1604](/us/pl/107/228/dB/tXVI/s1604), Sept. 30, 2002, [116 Stat. 1460](/us/stat/116/1460).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

References to Foreign Service Institute considered to refer to George P. Shultz National Foreign Affairs Training Center, see [section 1(b) of Pub. L. 107–132](/us/pl/107/132/s1/b), set out as a note under [section 4021 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4021).

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Department” and “Secretary” as used in this section, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 107–228](/us/pl/107/228/s3), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
