---
title: "§ 1062. Publication"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1062"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1062"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([July 5, 1946, ch. 540](/us/act/1946-07-05/ch540), title I, § 12, [60 Stat. 432](/us/stat/60/432); [Pub. L. 87–772, § 7](/us/pl/87/772/s7), Oct. 9, 1962, [76 Stat. 770](/us/stat/76/770); [Pub. L. 93–596, § 1](/us/pl/93/596/s1), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1949](/us/stat/88/1949); [Pub. L. 100–667, title I, § 113](/us/pl/100/667/tI/s113), Nov. 16, 1988, [102 Stat. 3940](/us/stat/102/3940); [Pub. L. 105–330, title I, § 104](/us/pl/105/330/tI/s104), Oct. 30, 1998, [112 Stat. 3066](/us/stat/112/3066); "
---
# § 1062. Publication

##### § 1062. Publication

(a) Examination and publication Upon the filing of an application for registration and payment of the prescribed fee, the Director shall refer the application to the examiner in charge of the registration of marks, who shall cause an examination to be made and, if on such examination it shall appear that the applicant is entitled to registration, or would be entitled to registration upon the acceptance of the statement of use required by [section 1051(d) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051/d), the Director shall cause the mark to be published in the Official Gazette of the Patent and Trademark Office: *Provided*, That in the case of an applicant claiming concurrent use, or in the case of an application to be placed in an interference as provided for in [section 1066 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1066) the mark, if otherwise registrable, may be published subject to the determination of the rights of the parties to such proceedings.

(b) Refusal of registration; amendment of application; abandonment; extensions of time to respond

(1) If the applicant is found not entitled to registration, the examiner shall notify the applicant thereof and of the reasons therefor. The applicant may reply or amend the application, which shall then be reexamined. This procedure may be repeated until the examiner finally refuses registration of the mark or the application is abandoned as described in paragraph (2).

(2) After notification under paragraph (1), the applicant shall have a period of 6 months in which to reply or amend the application, or such shorter time that is not less than 60 days, as prescribed by the Director by regulation. If the applicant fails to reply or amend or appeal within the relevant time period, including any extension under paragraph (3), the application shall be deemed to have been abandoned, unless it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Director that the delay in responding was unintentional, in which case the application may be revived and such time may be extended. The Director may prescribe a fee to accompany any request to revive.

(3) The Director shall provide, by regulation, for extensions of time to respond to the examiner for any time period under paragraph (2) that is less than 6 months. The Director shall allow the applicant to obtain extensions of time to reply or amend aggregating 6 months from the date of notification under paragraph (1) when the applicant so requests. However, the Director may set by regulation the time for individual periods of extension, and prescribe a fee, by regulation, for any extension request. Any request for extension shall be filed on or before the date on which a reply or amendment is due under paragraph (1).

(c) Republication of marks registered under prior acts A registrant of a mark registered under the provisions of the Act of March 3, 1881, or the Act of February 20, 1905, may, at any time prior to the expiration of the registration thereof, upon the payment of the prescribed fee file with the Director an affidavit setting forth those goods stated in the registration on which said mark is in use in commerce and that the registrant claims the benefits of this chapter for said mark. The Director shall publish notice thereof with a reproduction of said mark in the Official Gazette, and notify the registrant of such publication and of the requirement for the affidavit of use or nonuse as provided for in subsection (b) of [section 1058 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1058). Marks published under this subsection shall not be subject to the provisions of [section 1063 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1063).

*([July 5, 1946, ch. 540](/us/act/1946-07-05/ch540), title I, § 12, [60 Stat. 432](/us/stat/60/432); [Pub. L. 87–772, § 7](/us/pl/87/772/s7), Oct. 9, 1962, [76 Stat. 770](/us/stat/76/770); [Pub. L. 93–596, § 1](/us/pl/93/596/s1), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1949](/us/stat/88/1949); [Pub. L. 100–667, title I, § 113](/us/pl/100/667/tI/s113), Nov. 16, 1988, [102 Stat. 3940](/us/stat/102/3940); [Pub. L. 105–330, title I, § 104](/us/pl/105/330/tI/s104), Oct. 30, 1998, [112 Stat. 3066](/us/stat/112/3066); [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(9) [title IV, § 4732(b)(1)(B)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/9/tIV/s4732/b/1/B), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–583; [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Q, title II, § 224](/us/pl/116/260/dQ/tII/s224), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2201](/us/stat/134/2201).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Acts March 3, 1881 and February 20, 1905, referred to in subsec. (c), are acts [Mar. 3, 1881, ch. 138](/us/act/1881-03-03/ch138), [21 Stat. 502](/us/stat/21/502) and [Feb. 20, 1905, ch. 592](/us/act/1905-02-20/ch592), [33 Stat. 724](/us/stat/33/724), which were repealed insofar as inconsistent with this chapter by [act July 5, 1946, ch. 540, § 46(a)](/us/act/1946-07-05/ch540/s46/a), [60 Stat. 444](/us/stat/60/444). Act Feb. 20, 1905, was classified to sections 81 to 109 of this title.

#### Prior Provisions

Acts [Feb. 20, 1905, ch. 592, § 6](/us/act/1905-02-20/ch592/s6), [33 Stat. 726](/us/stat/33/726); [Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2573, § 2](/us/act/1907-03-02/ch2573/s2), [34 Stat. 1252](/us/stat/34/1252).

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “If the applicant is found not entitled to registration, the examiner shall advise the applicant thereof and of the reasons therefor. The applicant shall have a period of six months in which to reply or amend his application, which shall then be reexamined. This procedure may be repeated until (1) the examiner finally refuses registration of the mark or (2) the applicant fails for a period of six months to reply or amend or appeal, whereupon the application shall be deemed to have been abandoned, unless it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Director that the delay in responding was unintentional, whereupon such time may be extended.”

1999—[Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113) substituted “Director” for “Commissioner” wherever appearing.

1998—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 105–330](/us/pl/105/330) substituted “unintentional” for “unavoidable” in last sentence.

1988—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 100–667](/us/pl/100/667) substituted “prescribed fee” for “fee herein provided”, and “entitled to registration, or would be entitled to registration upon the acceptance of the statement of use required by [section 1051(d) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051/d), the” for “entitled to registration, the”.

1975—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596) substituted “Patent and Trademark Office” for “Patent Office”.

1962—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 87–772](/us/pl/87/772) inserted proviso permitting publication of the mark in the case of an applicant claiming concurrent use, or an application to be placed in an interference, if such mark is otherwise registrable, subject to the determination of the rights of the parties.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 87–772](/us/pl/87/772) inserted “Marks published under” before “this subsection shall not be subject”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1999 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113) effective 4 months after Nov. 29, 1999, see section 1000(a)(9) [title IV, § 4731] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 1 of Title 35](/us/usc/t35/s1), Patents.

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–330](/us/pl/105/330) effective on the date that is 1 year after Oct. 30, 1998, see [section 110 of Pub. L. 105–330](/us/pl/105/330/s110), set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051).

For provisions relating to applicability of amendment by [Pub. L. 105–330](/us/pl/105/330) to applications for registration of trademarks, see [section 109(b) of Pub. L. 105–330](/us/pl/105/330/s109/b), set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–667](/us/pl/100/667) effective one year after Nov. 16, 1988, see [section 136 of Pub. L. 100–667](/us/pl/100/667/s136), set out as a note under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051).

#### Effective Date of 1975 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596) effective Jan. 2, 1975, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 93–596](/us/pl/93/596/s4), set out as a note under [section 1111 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1111).

#### Repeal and Effect on Existing Rights

Repeal of inconsistent provisions, effect of this chapter on pending proceedings and existing registrations and rights under prior acts, see notes set out under [section 1051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1051).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of Commerce, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Commerce, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 5 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/64/1263), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
