---
title: "§ 6615b. Quadrennial science and technology review"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6615b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6615b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–282, title II, § 206B](/us/pl/94/282/tII/s206B), as added [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10613](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10613), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1640](/us/stat/136/1640).)"
---
# § 6615b. Quadrennial science and technology review

##### § 6615b. Quadrennial science and technology review

(a) Requirements

(1) Quadrennial reviews required Not later than December 31, 2023, and every four years thereafter, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall complete a review of the science and technology enterprise of the United States (in this section referred to as the “quadrennial science and technology review”).

(2) Scope The quadrennial science and technology review shall be a comprehensive examination of the science and technology strategy of the United States, including recommendations for maintaining global leadership in science and technology and advancing science and technology to address the societal and national challenges and guidance regarding the coordination of programs, assets, capabilities, budget, policies, and authorities across all Federal research and development programs.

(3) Consultation The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall conduct each quadrennial science and technology review in consultation with the following:

(A) The National Science and Technology Council.

(B) The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology.

(C) The National Science Board.

(D) The National Security Council.

(E) The heads of other relevant Federal agencies.

(F) Other relevant governmental and nongovernmental entities, including representatives from industry, institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, Members of Congress, and other policy experts.

(4) Coordination The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall ensure that each quadrennial science and technology review is coordinated with other relevant statutorily required reviews, and to the maximum extent practicable incorporates information and recommendations from existing reviews to avoid duplication.

(b) Contents In each quadrennial science and technology review, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall—

(1) provide an integrated view of, and recommendations for, science and technology policy across the Federal Government, while considering economic and national security and other societal and national challenges;

(2) assess and recommend priorities for research, development, and demonstration programs to maintain United States leadership in science and technology, including in manufacturing and industrial innovation;

(3) assess and recommend priorities for research, development, and demonstration programs to address societal and national challenges;

(4) assess the global competition in science and technology and identify potential threats to the leadership of the United States in science and technology and opportunities for international collaboration;

(5) assess and make recommendations on the science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and computer science workforce of the United States;

(6) assess and make recommendations to improve regional innovation across the United States;

(7) identify and assess sectors critical for the long-term resilience of United States innovation leadership across design, manufacturing, supply chains, and markets;

(8) assess and make recommendations to improve translation of basic and applied research and the enhancement of technology transfer of federally funded research;

(9) identify, assess, and make recommendations to address science and technology gaps that would not be met without Federal investment;

(10) review administrative and legislative policies and funding opportunities that affect private sector science and technology activities, and identify and make recommendations regarding policies that maintain and grow the participation and competitiveness of small- and medium-sized businesses;

(11) assess and identify the infrastructure and tools needed to maintain the leadership of the United States in science and technology and address other societal and national challenges; and

(12) review administrative or legislative policies that affect the science and technology enterprise and identify and make recommendations regarding policies that hinder research and development in the United States.

(c) Reporting

(1) In general Not later than December 31 of the year in which a quadrennial science and technology review is conducted, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall submit to Congress a report relating to such review.

(2) Publication The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall, consistent with the protection of national security and other sensitive matters to the maximum extent practicable, make each report submitted under paragraph (1) publicly available on an internet website of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. Each report may include a classified annex if the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy determines such appropriate.

(d) Termination This section shall terminate on the date that is ten years after August 9, 2022.

*([Pub. L. 94–282, title II, § 206B](/us/pl/94/282/tII/s206B), as added [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10613](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10613), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1640](/us/stat/136/1640).)*
