---
title: "§ 1831b. Disclosures with respect to certain federally related mortgage loans"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1831b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1831b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-21/ch967/s2)[25], as added [Pub. L. 93–533, § 11(a)](/us/pl/93/533/s11/a), Dec. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 1729](/us/stat/88/1729); amended [Pub. L. 95–369, § 6(c)(30)](/us/pl/95/369/s6/c/30), Sept. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 620](/us/stat/92/620); [Pub. L. 101–73, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/101/73/tII/s201/a), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 187](/us/stat/103/187); [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(a)(55)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/a/55), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2290"
---
# § 1831b. Disclosures with respect to certain federally related mortgage loans

##### § 1831b. Disclosures with respect to certain federally related mortgage loans

(a) Identity of beneficiary interest as condition for a loan; report to Corporation No insured depository institution, insured branch of a foreign bank, or mutual savings or cooperative bank which is not an insured depository institution, shall make any federally related mortgage loan to any agent, trustee, nominee, or other person acting in a fiduciary capacity without the prior condition that the identity of the person receiving the beneficial interest of such loan shall at all times be revealed to the insured depository institution, insured branch, or bank. At the request of the Corporation, the insured depository institution, insured branch, or bank shall report to the Corporation on the identity of such person and the nature and amount of the loan, discount, or other extension of credit.

(b) Enforcement; bank status In addition to other available remedies, this section may be enforced with respect to mutual savings and cooperative banks which are not insured depository institutions in accordance with [section 1818 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1818), and for such purpose such mutual savings and cooperative banks shall be held and considered to be State nonmember insured banks and the appropriate Federal agency with respect to such mutual savings and cooperative banks shall be the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

*([Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-21/ch967/s2)[25], as added [Pub. L. 93–533, § 11(a)](/us/pl/93/533/s11/a), Dec. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 1729](/us/stat/88/1729); amended [Pub. L. 95–369, § 6(c)(30)](/us/pl/95/369/s6/c/30), Sept. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 620](/us/stat/92/620); [Pub. L. 101–73, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/101/73/tII/s201/a), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 187](/us/stat/103/187); [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(a)(55)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/a/55), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2290](/us/stat/108/2290).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–325](/us/pl/103/325) substituted “the insured depository institution, insured branch, or bank” for “the bank” in two places.

1989—[Pub. L. 101–73](/us/pl/101/73) substituted references to insured depository institutions for references to insured banks wherever appearing in this section.

1978—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 95–369](/us/pl/95/369) inserted “insured branch of a foreign bank” after “No insured bank”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 22, 1974, see [section 20 of Pub. L. 93–533](/us/pl/93/533/s20), set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2601).

#### Exemptions; Regulations

[Pub. L. 93–533, § 11(c)](/us/pl/93/533/s11/c), Dec. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 1729](/us/stat/88/1729), provided that: “The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Home Loan Bank Board as appropriate may by regulation exempt classes or types of transactions from the provisions added by this section [enacting this section and [section 1730f of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1730f)] if the Corporation or the Board determines that the purposes of such provisions would not be advanced materially by their application to such transactions.”
