---
title: "§ 1996. Loans to resident aliens"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1996"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1996"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 348](/us/pl/87/128/tIII/s348), as added [Pub. L. 96–438, § 2(3)](/us/pl/96/438/s2/3), Oct. 13, 1980, [94 Stat. 1872](/us/stat/94/1872).)"
---
# § 1996. Loans to resident aliens

##### § 1996. Loans to resident aliens

Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter limiting the making and insuring of loans to citizens of the United States, the Secretary may make and insure loans under this chapter to aliens lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence under the Immigration and Nationality Act [[8 U.S.C. 1101](/us/usc/t8/s1101) et seq.]: *Provided*, That no loans may be made or insured under this chapter to such aliens until the Secretary issues regulations establishing the terms and conditions under which such aliens may receive loans: *Provided further*, That the Secretary shall submit the regulations to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate at least thirty days prior to the date the regulations are published in the Federal Register.

*([Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 348](/us/pl/87/128/tIII/s348), as added [Pub. L. 96–438, § 2(3)](/us/pl/96/438/s2/3), Oct. 13, 1980, [94 Stat. 1872](/us/stat/94/1872).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 87–128](/us/pl/87/128), Aug. 8, 1961, [75 Stat. 307](/us/stat/75/307), known as the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1921 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1921) and Tables.

The Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in text, is [act June 27, 1952, ch. 477](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477), [66 Stat. 163](/us/stat/66/163), which is classified principally to chapter 12 (§ 1101 et seq.) of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1101 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1101) and Tables.
