---
title: "§ 51704. Training for maritime oil pollution prevention, response, and clean-up"
identifier: "USC-T46-S51704"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section51704"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(b)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/b), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1583](/us/stat/120/1583).)"
---
# § 51704. Training for maritime oil pollution prevention, response, and clean-up

##### § 51704. Training for maritime oil pollution prevention, response, and clean-up

(a) Assistance in Establishing Program.— The Secretary of Transportation shall assist maritime training institutions approved by the Secretary in establishing a training program for maritime oil pollution prevention, response, and clean-up.

(b) Providing Training Vessels.— Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary may provide, with title free of all liens, to maritime training institutions that have a program established under subsection (a), offshore supply vessels and tug/supply vessels that were built in the United States and are in the possession of the Maritime Administration because of a default on a loan guaranteed under chapter 537 of this title.

(c) Requirements.— In addition to any other requirements the Secretary considers appropriate, the following requirements apply to vessels provided under this section:

(1) The vessel shall be offered to the institution at a location selected by the Secretary.

(2) The institution shall use the vessel to train students and appropriate maritime industry personnel in oil spill prevention, response, clean-up, and related skills.

(3) The institution shall make the vessel and qualified students available to appropriate Federal, State, and local oil spill response authorities when there is a maritime oil spill.

(4) The institution may not sell, trade, charter, donate, scrap, or in any way alter or dispose of the vessel without prior approval of the Secretary.

(5) The institution may not use the vessel in competition with a privately-owned vessel documented under chapter 121 of this title or titled under the law of a State, unless necessary to carry out this section.

(6) When the institution can no longer use the vessel for its training program, the institution shall return the vessel to the Secretary. The Secretary shall take possession at the institution and thereafter may provide the vessel to another institution under this section or dispose of the vessel.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(b)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/b), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1583](/us/stat/120/1583).)*

In subsection (c)(5), the words “or titled under the law of a State” are substituted for “documented under the laws of . . . any State” for consistency with the terminology in [46 U.S.C. 2101(46)](/us/usc/t46/s2101/46) (which is being moved to chapter 1 of the revised title) and 46 U.S.C. ch. 125.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 51704(a) | 46 App.:1295d(c)(1). | June 29, 1936, ch. 858, title XIII, § 1305(c), as added Pub. L. 101–595, title VII, § 712, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 2998. |
| 51704(b) | 46 App.:1295d(c) (2)(A), (4). |  |
| 51704(c) | 46 App.:1295d(c) (2)(B), (3). |  |
