---
title: "§ 664. Rights of way over reservoir sites generally"
identifier: "USC-T43-S664"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section664"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Feb. 26, 1897, ch. 335](/us/act/1897-02-26/ch335), [29 Stat. 599](/us/stat/29/599).)"
---
# § 664. Rights of way over reservoir sites generally

##### § 664. Rights of way over reservoir sites generally

All reservoir sites reserved or to be reserved shall be open to use and occupation under sections 946 to 949 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, and any State is authorized to improve and occupy such reservoir sites to the same extent as an individual or private corporation, under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe: *Provided*, That the charges for water coming in whole or part from reservoir sites used or occupied under the provisions of this section shall always be subject to the control and regulation of the respective States and Territories in which such reservoirs are in whole or part situate.

*([Feb. 26, 1897, ch. 335](/us/act/1897-02-26/ch335), [29 Stat. 599](/us/stat/29/599).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 946 to 949 of this title, referred to in text, were repealed by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2793](/us/stat/90/2793), effective on and after Oct. 21, 1976, insofar as applicable to the issuance of rights-of-way over, upon, under, and through the public lands and lands in the National Forest System.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Repeal; Savings Provision

Section repealed by [Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, § 706(a)](/us/pl/94/579/tVII/s706/a), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2793](/us/stat/90/2793), effective on and after Oct. 21, 1976, insofar as applicable to the issuance of rights-of-way over, upon, under, and through the public lands and lands in the National Forest System. Such repeal not to be construed as terminating any valid lease, permit, patent, etc., existing on Oct. 21, 1976, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579/s701), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1701).
