---
title: "§ 2300. Study of Corps capabilities"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2300"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2300"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 936](/us/pl/99/662/tIX/s936), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4197](/us/stat/100/4197).)"
---
# § 2300. Study of Corps capabilities

##### § 2300. Study of Corps capabilities

The Secretary shall study and evaluate the measures necessary to increase the capabilities of the United States Army Corps of Engineers to undertake the planning and construction of water resources projects on an expedited basis and to adequately comply with all requirements of law applicable to the water resources program of the Corps of Engineers. As part of such study the Secretary shall consider appropriate measures to increase reliance on the private sector in the conduct of the water resources program of the Corps of Engineers. The Secretary shall implement such measures as may be necessary to improve the capabilities referred to in the first sentence of this section, including the establishment of increased levels of personnel, changes in project planning and construction procedures designed to lessen the time required for such planning and construction, and procedures for expediting the coordination of water resources projects with Federal, State, and local agencies.

*([Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 936](/us/pl/99/662/tIX/s936), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4197](/us/stat/100/4197).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### GAO Review of Civil Works Program

[Pub. L. 100–676, § 44](/us/pl/100/676/s44), Nov. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 4041](/us/stat/102/4041), provided that the Comptroller General was to conduct a review of the Civil Works Program of the United States Army Corps of Engineers and to transmit the review to Congress with any recommendations the Comptroller General may make.
