---
title: "§ 300d–44. General provisions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300d–44"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300d–44"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XII, § 1244, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/102/321/tVI/s601), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 435](/us/stat/106/435); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3505(a)(4)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3505/a/4), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 524](/us/stat/124/524).)"
---
# § 300d–44. General provisions

##### § 300d–44. General provisions

(a) Application The Secretary may not award a grant to a trauma center under [section 300d–41(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a) unless such center submits an application for the grant to the Secretary and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this part.

(b) Limitation on duration of support The period during which a trauma center receives payments under a grant under [section 300d–41(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/3) shall be for 3 fiscal years, except that the Secretary may waive such requirement for a center and authorize such center to receive such payments for 1 additional fiscal year.

(c) Limitation on amount of grant Notwithstanding [section 300d–42(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–42/a), a grant under [section 300d–41 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41) may not be made in an amount exceeding $2,000,000 for each fiscal year.

(d) Eligibility Except as provided in [section 300d–42(b)(1)(B)(iii) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–42/b/1/B/iii), acquisition of, or eligibility for, a grant under [section 300d–41(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a) shall not preclude a trauma center from being eligible for other grants described in such section.

(e) Funding distribution Of the total amount appropriated for a fiscal year under [section 300d–45 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–45), 70 percent shall be used for substantial uncompensated care awards under [section 300d–41(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/1), 20 percent shall be used for core mission awards under [section 300d–41(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/2), and 10 percent shall be used for emergency awards under [section 300d–41(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/3).

(f) Minimum allowance Notwithstanding subsection (e), if the amount appropriated for a fiscal year under [section 300d–45 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–45) is less than $25,000,000, all available funding for such fiscal year shall be used for substantial uncompensated care awards under [section 300d–41(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41/a/1).

(g) Substantial uncompensated care award distribution and proportional share Notwithstanding [section 300d–42(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–42/a), of the amount appropriated for substantial uncompensated care grants for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall—

(1) make available—

(A) 50 percent of such funds for category A trauma center grantees;

(B) 35 percent of such funds for category B trauma center grantees; and

(C) 15 percent of such funds for category C trauma center grantees; and

(2) provide available funds within each category in a manner proportional to the award basis specified in [section 300d–42(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–42/a/2) to each eligible trauma center.

(h) Report Beginning 2 years after March 23, 2010, and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall biennially report to Congress regarding the status of the grants made under [section 300d–41 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300d–41) and on the overall financial stability of trauma centers.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XII, § 1244, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/102/321/tVI/s601), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 435](/us/stat/106/435); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3505(a)(4)](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3505/a/4), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 524](/us/stat/124/524).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) added subsecs. (a) to (h) and struck out former subsecs. (a) to (c) which related to application for grant, limitation on duration of support, and limitation on amount of grant.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 10, 1992, with programs making awards providing financial assistance in fiscal year 1993 and subsequent years effective for awards made on or after Oct. 1, 1992, see section 801(b), (d)(1) of [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 236 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s236).
