---
title: "§ 460uu–32. Management; provisions applicable"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460uu–32"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460uu–32"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–225, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/100/225/tIV/s402), Dec. 31, 1987, [101 Stat. 1542](/us/stat/101/1542).)"
---
# § 460uu–32. Management; provisions applicable

##### § 460uu–32. Management; provisions applicable

(a) Subject to valid existing rights, each wilderness area designated under this subchapter shall be administered by the Secretary, through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, in accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act [[16 U.S.C. 1131](/us/usc/t16/s1131) et seq.] governing areas designated by that Act as wilderness, except that any reference in such provisions to the effective date of the Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference to December 31, 1987.

(b) Within the wilderness areas designated by this subchapter, the grazing of livestock, where established prior to December 31, 1987, shall be permitted to continue subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary deems necessary, as long as such regulations, policies, and practices fully conform with and implement the intent of Congress regarding grazing in such areas as such intent is expressed in the Wilderness Act [[16 U.S.C. 1131](/us/usc/t16/s1131) et seq.] and [section 108 of Public Law 96–560](/us/pl/96/560/s108) ([16 U.S.C. 1133](/us/usc/t16/s1133) note).

*([Pub. L. 100–225, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/100/225/tIV/s402), Dec. 31, 1987, [101 Stat. 1542](/us/stat/101/1542).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Wilderness Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 88–577](/us/pl/88/577), Sept. 3, 1964, [78 Stat. 890](/us/stat/78/890), which is classified generally to chapter 23 (§ 1131 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1131 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1131) and Tables.

The effective date of the Wilderness Act, referred to in subsec. (a), means Sept. 3, 1964, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 88–577](/us/pl/88/577), which enacted chapter 23 of this title.
