---
title: "§ 2015. Special reports to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2015"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2015"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–283, title II, § 205](/us/pl/89/283/tII/s205), Oct. 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 1018](/us/stat/79/1018).)"
---
# § 2015. Special reports to Congress

##### § 2015. Special reports to Congress

(a) Report on required comprehensive review No later than August 31, 1968, the President shall submit to the Senate and the House of Representatives a special report on the comprehensive review called for by Article IV(c) of the Agreement. In such report he shall advise the Congress of the progress made toward the achievement of the objectives of Article I of the Agreement.

(b) Report on increase on Canadian value added Whenever the President finds that any manufacturer has entered into any undertaking, by reason of governmental action, to increase the Canadian value added of automobiles, buses, specified commercial vehicles, or original equipment parts produced by such manufacturer in Canada after August 31, 1968, he shall report such finding to the Senate and the House of Representatives. The President shall also report whether such undertaking is additional to undertakings agreed to in letters of undertaking submitted by such manufacturer before October 21, 1965.

(c) Recommendations The reports provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall include recommendations for such further steps, including legislative action, if any, as may be necessary for the achievement of the purposes of the Agreement and this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 89–283, title II, § 205](/us/pl/89/283/tII/s205), Oct. 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 1018](/us/stat/79/1018).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Agreement, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), is the Agreement Concerning Automotive Products, which was entered into between the United States and Canada on January 16, 1965, see Proc. No. 3682, Oct. 21, 1965, 30 F.R. 13683 and Proc. No. 3743, Sept. 8, 1966, 31 F.R. 12003, set out as notes under [section 2011 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2011).

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 89–283](/us/pl/89/283), Oct. 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 1016](/us/stat/79/1016). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2001) and Tables.
