---
title: "§ 5471. Report on initial steps taken by United States and on Poland’s requirement for agricultural assistance"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5471"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5471"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–179, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/101/179/tVII/s701), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/103/1320).)"
---
# § 5471. Report on initial steps taken by United States and on Poland’s requirement for agricultural assistance

##### § 5471. Report on initial steps taken by United States and on Poland’s requirement for agricultural assistance

(a) Initial report Not later than 60 days after November 28, 1989, the President shall submit a report to the Congress—

(1) describing the steps taken by the United States Government pursuant to subchapter I, in particular sections 11 So in original. Probably should be “section”. 5412(a) and (b) of this title;

(2) assessing Poland’s requirements for additional agricultural assistance during fiscal year 1990 and its requirements for agricultural assistance during fiscal years 1991 and 1992; and

(3) specifying how much agricultural assistance the President proposes be provided by the United States to meet those requirements.

(b) Updating assessments As additional information becomes available, the President shall provide to the Congress revised assessments of Poland’s requirements for agricultural assistance during fiscal years 1991 and 1992, specifying how much agricultural assistance the President proposes be provided by the United States to meet those requirements.

*([Pub. L. 101–179, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/101/179/tVII/s701), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/103/1320).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under this subchapter relating to reports to Congress delegated to Coordinator of the SEED Program by section 1 of Ex. Ord. No. 12703, Feb. 20, 1990, 55 F.R. 6351, set out as a note under [section 5401 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5401).
