---
title: "§ 12103. Additional definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–336, § 4](/us/pl/101/336/s4), as added [Pub. L. 110–325, § 4(b)](/us/pl/110/325/s4/b), Sept. 25, 2008, [122 Stat. 3556](/us/stat/122/3556).)"
---
# § 12103. Additional definitions

##### § 12103. Additional definitions

(1) Auxiliary aids and services The term “auxiliary aids and services” includes—

(A) qualified interpreters or other effective methods of making aurally delivered materials available to individuals with hearing impairments;

(B) qualified readers, taped texts, or other effective methods of making visually delivered materials available to individuals with visual impairments;

(C) acquisition or modification of equipment or devices; and

(D) other similar services and actions.

(2) State The term “State” means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the United States, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.”.

*([Pub. L. 101–336, § 4](/us/pl/101/336/s4), as added [Pub. L. 110–325, § 4(b)](/us/pl/110/325/s4/b), Sept. 25, 2008, [122 Stat. 3556](/us/stat/122/3556).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 101–336](/us/pl/101/336), July 26, 1990, [104 Stat. 327](/us/stat/104/327), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 12101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12101) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 2009, see [section 8 of Pub. L. 110–325](/us/pl/110/325/s8), set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under [section 705 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s705), Labor.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding [section 1681 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1681), Territories and Insular Possessions.
