---
title: "§ 472. Installments on entries or applications made after August 13, 1914, and prior to December 5, 1924"
identifier: "USC-T43-S472"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section472"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Aug. 13, 1914, ch. 247, § 1](/us/act/1914-08-13/ch247/s1), [38 Stat. 686](/us/stat/38/686).)"
---
# § 472. Installments on entries or applications made after August 13, 1914, and prior to December 5, 1924

##### § 472. Installments on entries or applications made after August 13, 1914, and prior to December 5, 1924

Any person whose lands, after August 13, 1914, and prior to December 5, 1924, became subject to the terms and conditions of the Act approved June seventeenth, nineteen hundred and two, entitled “An Act appropriating the receipts from the sale and disposal of public lands in certain States and Territories to the construction of irrigation works for the reclamation of arid lands,” and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, hereafter to be referred to as the reclamation law, and any person who, after August 13, 1914, and prior to December 5, 1924, made entry thereunder shall pay the balance of said charge after the initial payment in fifteen annual installments, the first five of which shall each be five per centum of the construction charge and the remainder shall each be seven per centum until the whole amount shall have been paid.

*([Aug. 13, 1914, ch. 247, § 1](/us/act/1914-08-13/ch247/s1), [38 Stat. 686](/us/stat/38/686).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act approved June seventeenth, nineteen hundred and two, referred to in text, is [act June 17, 1902, ch. 1093](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093), [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.

#### Codification

References to December 5, 1924, were inserted in conformity with provisions of [act Dec. 5, 1924, ch. 4, § 4](/us/act/1924-12-05/ch4/s4), subsec. F, [43 Stat. 702](/us/stat/43/702), which changed the method of paying the annual installments after such date. Such provisions, which were classified to sections 473 and 474 of this title, were repealed by [act May 25, 1926, ch. 383, § 47](/us/act/1926-05-25/ch383/s47), [44 Stat. 650](/us/stat/44/650). See sections 423 to 423g of this title.

Section comprises part of section 1 of act Aug. 13, 1914. Remainder of section 1 is set out as [section 471 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s471).
