---
title: "§ 1717. Reopening proceedings"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1717"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1717"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 218](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s218), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 518](/us/stat/88/518).)"
---
# § 1717. Reopening proceedings

##### § 1717. Reopening proceedings

A parent or guardian of a child, or parents or guardians of children similarly situated, transported to a public school in accordance with a court order, or an educational agency subject to a court order or a desegregation plan under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [[42 U.S.C. 2000d](/us/usc/t42/s2000d) et seq.] in effect on August 21, 1974, and intended to end segregation of students on the basis of race, color, or national origin, may seek to reopen or intervene in the further implementation of such court order, currently in effect, if the time or distance of travel is so great as to risk the health of the student or significantly impinge on his or her educational process.

*([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 218](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s218), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 518](/us/stat/88/518).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 2000d et seq.) of chapter 21 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on and after sixtieth day after Aug. 21, 1974, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 93–380](/us/pl/93/380/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 1221–1 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1221–1).
