---
title: "§ 2347. Sale of lots to lessees or individual owners"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2347"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2347"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 5, § 57, [69 Stat. 478](/us/stat/69/478); [Pub. L. 87–719, § 13](/us/pl/87/719/s13), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 665](/us/stat/76/665).)"
---
# § 2347. Sale of lots to lessees or individual owners

##### § 2347. Sale of lots to lessees or individual owners

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Commission is authorized, immediately upon passage of this chapter, or immediately upon the inclusion of the community within the provisions of this chapter, to offer for sale to the lessees single residential lots, which were leased by competitive bid and which do not have a Government-owned building thereon, at a price equal to the initial valuation of the lot as stated in the lease.

(b) The Commission is authorized to offer for sale, as soon as possible, other lots, to individual owners, upon which single family or duplex houses may be erected, taking into consideration the zoning restrictions the new city is likely to enact with respect to those lots. The zoning restrictions to be taken into account at Los Alamos shall be those which the local government is likely to enact with respect to those lots.

*([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 5, § 57, [69 Stat. 478](/us/stat/69/478); [Pub. L. 87–719, § 13](/us/pl/87/719/s13), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 665](/us/stat/76/665).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1962—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 87–719](/us/pl/87/719) inserted provision that zoning restrictions to be taken into account at Los Alamos shall be those which the local government is likely to enact with respect to those lots.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.
