---
title: "§ 1835. Allocation of funds"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1835"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1835"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–471, title III, § 305](/us/pl/95/471/tIII/s305), as added [Pub. L. 98–192, § 13](/us/pl/98/192/s13), Dec. 1, 1983, [97 Stat. 1342](/us/stat/97/1342); amended [Pub. L. 101–477, § 1(d)(1)(D)](/us/pl/101/477/s1/d/1/D), (E), Oct. 30, 1990, [104 Stat. 1153](/us/stat/104/1153); [Pub. L. 105–244, title IX, § 901(b)(5)](/us/pl/105/244/tIX/s901/b/5), (7), (12), (14), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1828](/us/stat/112/1828).)"
---
# § 1835. Allocation of funds

##### § 1835. Allocation of funds

(a) From the amount appropriated pursuant to [section 1836 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1836), the Secretary shall allocate to each tribally controlled college or university which is eligible for an endowment grant under this subchapter an amount for a Federal capital contribution equal to twice the value of the property or the amount which such college or university demonstrates has been placed within the control of, or irrevocably committed to the use of, the college or university and is available for deposit as a capital contribution of that college or university in accordance with [section 1832(b)(2)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1832/b/2/B), except that the maximum amount which may be so allocated to any such college or university for any fiscal year shall not exceed $750,000.

(b) If for any fiscal year the amount appropriated pursuant to [section 1836 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1836) is not sufficient to allocate to each tribally controlled college or university an amount equal to twice the value of the property or the amount demonstrated by such college or university pursuant to subsection (a), then the amount of the allocation to each such college or university shall be ratably reduced.

*([Pub. L. 95–471, title III, § 305](/us/pl/95/471/tIII/s305), as added [Pub. L. 98–192, § 13](/us/pl/98/192/s13), Dec. 1, 1983, [97 Stat. 1342](/us/stat/97/1342); amended [Pub. L. 101–477, § 1(d)(1)(D)](/us/pl/101/477/s1/d/1/D), (E), Oct. 30, 1990, [104 Stat. 1153](/us/stat/104/1153); [Pub. L. 105–244, title IX, § 901(b)(5)](/us/pl/105/244/tIX/s901/b/5), (7), (12), (14), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1828](/us/stat/112/1828).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) substituted “controlled college or university” for “controlled community college”, “such college or university” for “such college” in two places, “the college or university” for “the college”, and “that college or university” for “that college”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 105–244, § 901(b)(5)](/us/pl/105/244/s901/b/5), (7), substituted “controlled college or university” for “controlled community college” and substituted “such college or university” for “such college” in two places.

1990—[Pub. L. 101–477](/us/pl/101/477) inserted “twice the value of the property or” after “equal to” in subsecs. (a) and (b) and substituted “$750,000” for “$350,000” in subsec. (a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244) effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as a note under [section 1001 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001), Education.

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–477](/us/pl/101/477) effective Oct. 1, 1991, see [section 1(d)(2) of Pub. L. 101–477](/us/pl/101/477/s1/d/2), set out as a note under [section 1832 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1832).
