---
title: "§ 3102. Report to Congressional committees"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–523, § 3](/us/pl/95/523/s3), Oct. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 1889](/us/stat/92/1889); S. Res. 30, Mar. 7, 1979.)"
---
# § 3102. Report to Congressional committees

##### § 3102. Report to Congressional committees

Not later than one year after October 27, 1978, the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives each shall conduct a study and submit a report, including findings and recommendations, to the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the Committee on Rules of the House, respectively, on the subject of establishing a full employment goal in connection with the provisions of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 95–523, § 3](/us/pl/95/523/s3), Oct. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 1889](/us/stat/92/1889); S. Res. 30, Mar. 7, 1979.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–523](/us/pl/95/523), Oct. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 1887](/us/stat/92/1887), known as the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978, which enacted this chapter and sections 1022a to 1022f of this title, amended sections 1021, 1022, and 1023 of this title, sections 632 and 636 of Title 2, The Congress, and [section 225a of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s225a), Banks and Banking, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1021 and 3101 of this title and [section 225a of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s225a). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3101) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999. Previously, Committee on Human Resources of the Senate changed to Committee on Labor and Human Resources effective Mar. 7, 1979, by Senate Resolution No. 30, 96th Congress. See, also, Rule XXV of Standing Rules of the Senate adopted Nov. 14, 1979.
