---
title: "§ 12332. State databases"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12332"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12332"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40292](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40292), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1939](/us/stat/108/1939).)"
---
# § 12332. State databases

##### § 12332. State databases

(a) In general The Attorney General shall study and report to the States and to Congress on how the States may collect centralized databases on the incidence of sexual and domestic violence offenses within a State.

(b) Consultation In conducting its study, the Attorney General shall consult persons expert in the collection of criminal justice data, State statistical administrators, law enforcement personnel, and nonprofit nongovernmental agencies that provide direct services to victims of domestic violence. The final report shall set forth the views of the persons consulted on the recommendations.

(c) Report The Attorney General shall ensure that no later than 1 year after September 13, 1994, the study required under subsection (a) is completed and a report describing the findings made is submitted to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $200,000 for fiscal year 1996.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40292](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40292), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1939](/us/stat/108/1939).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13962 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13962), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
