---
title: "§ 8839. Office of Energy from Municipal Waste"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8839"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8839"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–294, title II, § 239](/us/pl/96/294/tII/s239), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 704](/us/stat/94/704).)"
---
# § 8839. Office of Energy from Municipal Waste

##### § 8839. Office of Energy from Municipal Waste

(a) Establishment in Department of Energy; appointment of Director There is hereby established within the Department of Energy an Office of Energy from Municipal Waste (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Office”) to be headed by a Director, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of Energy.

(b) Functions It shall be the function of the Office to perform—

(1) the research, development, demonstration, and commercialization activities authorized under this subchapter (including those authorized under [section 8837 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8837)), and

(2) such other duties relating to the production of energy from municipal waste as the Secretary of Energy may assign to the Office.

(c) Consultations respecting implementation of functions In carrying out functions tranferred 11 So in original. Probably should be “transferred”. or assigned to the Office, the Secretary of Energy shall consult with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of such other Federal agencies, as appropriate.

(d) Transfer of related functions and personnel from Department of Energy The Secretary shall provide for the transfer to the Office of the functions relating to, and personnel of the Department who are responsible for the administration of, programs in existence on June 30, 1980, which relate to the research, development, demonstration, and commercialization of technologies for the recovery of energy from municipal waste.

*([Pub. L. 96–294, title II, § 239](/us/pl/96/294/tII/s239), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 704](/us/stat/94/704).)*
