---
title: "§ 41764. Use of Federal facilities and assistance"
identifier: "USC-T49-S41764"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section41764"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–181, title II, § 210(a)](/us/pl/106/181/tII/s210/a), Apr. 5, 2000, [114 Stat. 101](/us/stat/114/101).)"
---
# § 41764. Use of Federal facilities and assistance

##### § 41764. Use of Federal facilities and assistance

(a) Use of Federal Facilities.— To permit the Secretary of Transportation to make use of such expert advice and services as the Secretary may require in carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary may use available services and facilities of other agencies and instrumentalities of the United States Government—

(1) with the consent of the appropriate Federal officials; and

(2) on a reimbursable basis.

(b) Assistance.— The head of each appropriate department or agency of the United States Government shall exercise the duties and powers of that head in such manner as to assist in carrying out the policy specified in section 41761.

(c) Oversight.— The Secretary shall make available to the Comptroller General of the United States such information with respect to any Federal credit instrument made under this subchapter as the Comptroller General may require to carry out the duties of the Comptroller General under chapter 7 of title 31, United States Code.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–181, title II, § 210(a)](/us/pl/106/181/tII/s210/a), Apr. 5, 2000, [114 Stat. 101](/us/stat/114/101).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 1999, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 106–181](/us/pl/106/181/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 2000 Amendments note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
