---
title: "§ 30304. Prison rape prevention and prosecution"
identifier: "USC-T34-S30304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section30304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–79, § 5](/us/pl/108/79/s5), Sept. 4, 2003, [117 Stat. 978](/us/stat/117/978).)"
---
# § 30304. Prison rape prevention and prosecution

##### § 30304. Prison rape prevention and prosecution

(a) Information and assistance

(1) National clearinghouse There is established within the National Institute of Corrections a national clearinghouse for the provision of information and assistance to Federal, State, and local authorities responsible for the prevention, investigation, and punishment of instances of prison rape.

(2) Training and education The National Institute of Corrections shall conduct periodic training and education programs for Federal, State, and local authorities responsible for the prevention, investigation, and punishment of instances of prison rape.

(b) Reports

(1) In general Not later than September 30 of each year, the National Institute of Corrections shall submit a report to Congress and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. This report shall be available to the Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics.

(2) Contents The report required under paragraph (1) shall summarize the activities of the Department of Justice regarding prison rape abatement for the preceding calendar year.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2010 to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 108–79, § 5](/us/pl/108/79/s5), Sept. 4, 2003, [117 Stat. 978](/us/stat/117/978).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15604 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15604), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
