---
title: "§ 10705. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10705"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10705"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3025](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3025), as added [Pub. L. 114–198, title II, § 201(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/198/tII/s201/a/1), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 713](/us/stat/130/713).)"
---
# § 10705. Definitions

##### § 10705. Definitions

(1) The term “first responder” includes a firefighter, law enforcement officer, paramedic, emergency medical technician, or other individual (including an employee of a legally organized and recognized volunteer organization, whether compensated or not), who, in the course of his or her professional duties, responds to fire, medical, hazardous material, or other similar emergencies.

(2) The term “medication-assisted treatment” means the use of medications approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of opioid abuse.

(3) The term “opioid” means any drug, including heroin, having an addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug having such addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability.

(4) The term “schedule II, III, or IV controlled substance” means a controlled substance that is listed on schedule II, schedule III, or schedule IV of [section 812(c) of title 21](/us/usc/t21/s812/c).

(5) The terms “drug” and “device” have the meanings given those terms in [section 321 of title 21](/us/usc/t21/s321).

(6) The term “criminal justice agency” means a State, local, or tribal—

(A) court;

(B) prison;

(C) jail;

(D) law enforcement agency; or

(E) other agency that performs the administration of criminal justice, including prosecution, pretrial services, and community supervision.

(7) The term “tribal organization” has the meaning given that term in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(8) The term “State substance abuse agency” has the meaning given that term in section 290bb–1(r)(6) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 42.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 3025](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s3025), as added [Pub. L. 114–198, title II, § 201(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/198/tII/s201/a/1), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 713](/us/stat/130/713).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 290bb–1(r)(6) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–1/r/6), referred to in par. (8), was redesignated [section 290bb–1(r)(5) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–1/r/5) by [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1114(2)](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1114/2), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5647](/us/stat/136/5647).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797ff–4 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797ff–4), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
