---
title: "§ 1783. Bereavement counseling"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1783"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1783"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–135, title II, § 208(b)](/us/pl/107/135/tII/s208/b), Jan. 23, 2002, [115 Stat. 2463](/us/stat/115/2463); amended [Pub. L. 109–461, title II, § 216](/us/pl/109/461/tII/s216), Dec. 22, 2006, [120 Stat. 3424](/us/stat/120/3424); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 926(a)(31)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s926/a/31), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3830](/us/stat/134/3830).)"
---
# § 1783. Bereavement counseling

##### § 1783. Bereavement counseling

(a) Deaths of Veterans.— In the case of an individual who was a recipient of services under [section 1782 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1782) at the time of the death of the veteran, the Secretary may provide bereavement counseling to that individual in the case of a death—

(1) that was unexpected; or

(2) that occurred while the veteran was participating in a hospice program (or a similar program) conducted by the Secretary.

(b) Deaths In Active Service.—

(1) The Secretary may provide bereavement counseling to an individual who is a member of the immediate family of a member of the Armed Forces who dies in the active military, naval, air, or space service in the line of duty and under circumstances not due to the person’s own misconduct.

(2) For purposes of this subsection, the members of the immediate family of a member of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1) include the parents of such member.

(c) Provision of Counseling Through Vet Centers.— Bereavement counseling may be provided under this section through the facilities and personnel of centers for the provision of readjustment counseling and related mental health services under [section 1712A of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1712A).

(d) Bereavement Counseling Defined.— For purposes of this section, the term “bereavement counseling” means such counseling services, for a limited period, as the Secretary determines to be reasonable and necessary to assist an individual with the emotional and psychological stress accompanying the death of another individual.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–135, title II, § 208(b)](/us/pl/107/135/tII/s208/b), Jan. 23, 2002, [115 Stat. 2463](/us/stat/115/2463); amended [Pub. L. 109–461, title II, § 216](/us/pl/109/461/tII/s216), Dec. 22, 2006, [120 Stat. 3424](/us/stat/120/3424); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 926(a)(31)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s926/a/31), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3830](/us/stat/134/3830).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1783 was renumbered [section 3683 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3683).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “air, or space service” for “or air service”.

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–461, § 216(a)](/us/pl/109/461/s216/a), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 109–461, § 216(b)](/us/pl/109/461/s216/b), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).
