---
title: "§ 108. Forfeiture of Federal benefits"
identifier: "USC-T32-S108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title32-section108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "32"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 600](/us/stat/70A/600); [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title IX, § 904(c)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIX/s904/c), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2827](/us/stat/108/2827).)"
---
# § 108. Forfeiture of Federal benefits

##### § 108. Forfeiture of Federal benefits

If, within a time fixed by the President, a State fails to comply with a requirement of this title, or a regulation prescribed under this title, the National Guard of that State is barred, in whole or in part, as the President may prescribe, from receiving money or any other aid, benefit, or privilege authorized by law.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 600](/us/stat/70A/600); [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title IX, § 904(c)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIX/s904/c), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2827](/us/stat/108/2827).)*

The words “does not comply” are substituted for the words “shall * * * have failed or refused to comply”. The words “a requirement of, or regulation prescribed under, this title” are substituted for the words “any requirement of this title, or any regulation promulgated thereunder and in aid thereof by the President or the Secretary of the Army”. The words “money or any other aid” are substituted for the words “pecuniary or other aid”. The words “or provided by this title or any other” are omitted as surplusage.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 108 | 32:24. | June 3, 1916, ch. 134, § 116, 39 Stat. 212. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “If, within a time to be fixed by the President, a State does not comply with or enforce a requirement of, or regulation prescribed under, this title its National Guard is barred, wholly or partly as the President may prescribe, from receiving money or any other aid, benefit, or privilege authorized by law.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337) effective at end of 90-day period beginning on Oct. 5, 1994, see [section 904(d) of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s904/d), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 10501 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s10501), Armed Forces.
