---
title: "§ 240107. Restrictions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S240107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section240107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1489](/us/stat/112/1489).)"
---
# § 240107. Restrictions

##### § 240107. Restrictions

(a) Stock and Dividends.— The corporation may not issue stock or declare or pay a dividend.

(b) Political Activities.— The corporation or a director or officer as such may not contribute to, support, or otherwise participate in any political activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.

(c) Distribution of Income or Assets.— The income or assets of the corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.

(d) Loans.— The corporation may not make a loan to a director, officer, or employee.

(e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.— The corporation may not claim the approval or the authority of the United States Government for any of its activities.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1489](/us/stat/112/1489).)*

In subsection (a), the words “any shares of” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), the words “as such” are substituted for “thereof” for consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (c), the words “inure to the benefit of” are substituted for “inure” for consistency in the revised title. The words “This subsection does not prevent” are substituted for “Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 240107(a) | 36:3108(d). | Oct. 30, 1984, Pub. L. 98–584, § 8, 98 Stat. 3098. |
| 240107(b) | 36:3108(c). |  |
| 240107(c) | 36:3108(a). |  |
| 240107(d) | 36:3108(b). |  |
| 240107(e) | 36:3108(e). |  |
