---
title: "§ 12854. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12854"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12854"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title III, § 305](/us/pl/101/625/tIII/s305), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4132](/us/stat/104/4132).)"
---
# § 12854. Definitions

##### § 12854. Definitions

(1) Board of Directors The term “Board of Directors” or “Board” means the Board of Directors of the National Homeownership Trust under [section 12851(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12851/b).

(2) Displaced homemaker The term “displaced homemaker” means an individual who—

(A) is an adult;

(B) has not worked full-time full-year in the labor force for a number of years, but has during such years, worked primarily without remuneration to care for the home and family; and

(C) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.

(3) Fund The term “Fund” means the National Homeownership Trust Fund established in [section 12853 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12853).

(4) Single parent The term “single parent” means an individual who—

(A) is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and

(B)

(i) has 1 or more minor children for whom the individual has custody or joint custody; or

(ii) is pregnant.

(5) State The term “State” means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

(6) Trust The term “Trust” means the National Homeownership Trust established in [section 12851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12851).

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title III, § 305](/us/pl/101/625/tIII/s305), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4132](/us/stat/104/4132).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding [section 1681 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1681), Territories and Insular Possessions.
