---
title: "§ 2223b. Working group"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2223b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2223b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–446, § 3](/us/pl/101/446/s3), Oct. 22, 1990, [104 Stat. 1045](/us/stat/104/1045); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XI, § 1112(d)](/us/pl/107/296/tXI/s1112/d), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2276](/us/stat/116/2276).)"
---
# § 2223b. Working group

##### § 2223b. Working group

(1) program officials from each of—

who develop and disseminate hazardous materials identification and response data, and who collect, collate, analyze, and disseminate hazardous materials incident data;

(A) the Environmental Protection Agency;

(B) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;

(C) the Department of Transportation;

(D) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; and

(E) the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice,

(2) State and local operational officials with emergency response or relevant regulatory responsibilities; and

(3) representatives of companies engaged in the manufacture and processing of chemicals.

*([Pub. L. 101–446, § 3](/us/pl/101/446/s3), Oct. 22, 1990, [104 Stat. 1045](/us/stat/104/1045); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XI, § 1112(d)](/us/pl/107/296/tXI/s1112/d), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2276](/us/stat/116/2276).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Firefighters’ Safety Study Act, and not as part of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2002—Par. (1)(E). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) substituted “the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice,” for “the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) effective 60 days after Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 101 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s101), Domestic Security.
