---
title: "§ 2719. Grants for training and education in international affairs"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2719"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2719"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 841](/us/act/1956-08-01/ch841), title I, § 47, as added [Pub. L. 101–246, title I, § 150(2)](/us/pl/101/246/tI/s150/2), Feb. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 42](/us/stat/104/42); amended [Pub. L. 117–263, div. I, title XCII, § 9220(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dI/tXCII/s9220/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3879](/us/stat/136/3879); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXI, § 6117(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dF/tLXI/s6117/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 970](/us/stat/137/970).)"
---
# § 2719. Grants for training and education in international affairs

##### § 2719. Grants for training and education in international affairs

(a) In general The Secretary of State may make grants to postsecondary educational institutions or students for the purpose of increasing the level of knowledge and awareness of and interest in employment with the Foreign Service or the Civil Service, consistent with [section 3905 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3905). To the extent possible, the Secretary shall give special emphasis to promoting such knowledge and awareness of, and interest in employment with, the Foreign Service or the Civil Service among minority students. Any grants awarded shall be made pursuant to regulations to be established by the Secretary of State, which shall provide for a limit on the size of any specific grant and, regarding any grants to individuals, shall ensure that no grant recipient receives an amount of grants from one or more Federal programs which in the aggregate would exceed the cost of his or her education, and shall require satisfactory educational progress by grantees as a condition of eligibility for continued receipt of grant funds.

(b) Diplomatic Security fellowship programs

(1) Establishment The Secretary of State, working through the Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security, is authorized to establish Diplomatic Security fellowship programs to provide grants to United States nationals pursuing post-secondary studies who commit to pursuing a career as a special agent, security engineering officer, or in the civil service in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security.

(2) Rulemaking The Secretary is authorized to promulgate regulations for the administration of Diplomatic Security fellowship programs that set forth—

(A) the eligibility requirements for receiving a grant under this subsection;

(B) the process by which eligible applicants may request such a grant;

(C) the maximum amount of such a grant; and

(D) the educational progress to which all grant recipients are obligated.

*([Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 841](/us/act/1956-08-01/ch841), title I, § 47, as added [Pub. L. 101–246, title I, § 150(2)](/us/pl/101/246/tI/s150/2), Feb. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 42](/us/stat/104/42); amended [Pub. L. 117–263, div. I, title XCII, § 9220(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dI/tXCII/s9220/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3879](/us/stat/136/3879); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXI, § 6117(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dF/tLXI/s6117/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 970](/us/stat/137/970).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 47 of act Aug. 1, 1956, was renumbered section 48 by [section 150(1) of Pub. L. 101–246](/us/pl/101/246/s150/1), and set out as a Short Title of 1956 Amendment note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–138, title I, § 111(1)](/us/pl/102/138/tI/s111/1), Oct. 28, 1991, [105 Stat. 654](/us/stat/105/654).

#### Amendments

2023—[Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

2022—[Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) inserted “or the Civil Service” after “with the Foreign Service” in first sentence and “or the Civil Service” after “Foreign Service” in second sentence. Technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 3905 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3905) could not be executed.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Nancy Pelosi Fellowship Program

[Pub. L. 117–328, div. K, title I](/us/pl/117/328/dK/tI), par. (6)(H), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4975](/us/stat/136/4975), provided that: “Of the funds appropriated under this heading [“diplomatic programs” under “Department of State” and “Administration of Foreign Affairs”], not less than $2,000,000 shall be made available for a grant to a postsecondary educational institution for the purpose of establishing a program to increase the participation of undergraduate students in the Foreign Service, as authorized by section 150 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 ([22 U.S.C. 2719](/us/usc/t22/s2719)): *Provided*, That such grant program shall hereafter be named the ‘Nancy Pelosi Fellowship Program’.”
