---
title: "§ 1650a. Arbitration awards under the Convention"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1650a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1650a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–532, § 3](/us/pl/89/532/s3), Aug. 11, 1966, [80 Stat. 344](/us/stat/80/344).)"
---
# § 1650a. Arbitration awards under the Convention

##### § 1650a. Arbitration awards under the Convention

(a) Treaty rights; enforcement; full faith and credit; nonapplication of Federal Arbitration Act An award of an arbitral tribunal rendered pursuant to chapter IV of the convention shall create a right arising under a treaty of the United States. The pecuniary obligations imposed by such an award shall be enforced and shall be given the same full faith and credit as if the award were a final judgment of a court of general jurisdiction of one of the several States. The Federal Arbitration Act ([9 U.S.C. 1](/us/usc/t9/s1) et seq.) shall not apply to enforcement of awards rendered pursuant to the convention.

(b) Jurisdiction; amount in controversy The district courts of the United States (including the courts enumerated in [section 460 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s460)) shall have exclusive jurisdiction over actions and proceedings under subsection (a) of this section, regardless of the amount in controversy.

*([Pub. L. 89–532, § 3](/us/pl/89/532/s3), Aug. 11, 1966, [80 Stat. 344](/us/stat/80/344).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Chapter IV of the convention, referred to in subsec. (a), contains the Arbitration provisions of the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes Between States and Nationals of Other States, providing in Section 1 (Art. 36) for Request for Arbitration, Section 2 (Arts. 37 to 40) for Constitution of the Tribunal, Section 3 (Arts. 41 to 47) for powers and functions of the tribunal, Section 4 (Arts. 48, 49) for The Award, Section 5 (Arts. 50 to 52) for interpretation, revision and annulment of the award, and Section 6 (Arts. 53 to 55) for recognition and enforcement of the award.

The Federal Arbitration Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is classified generally to Title 9, Arbitration.
