---
title: "§ 293k–1. Training opportunities for direct care workers"
identifier: "USC-T42-S293k–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section293k–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VII, § 747A, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5302](/us/pl/111/148/tV/s5302), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 617](/us/stat/124/617).)"
---
# § 293k–1. Training opportunities for direct care workers

##### § 293k–1. Training opportunities for direct care workers

(a) In general The Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities to enable such entities to provide new training opportunities for direct care workers who are employed in long-term care settings such as nursing homes (as defined in [section 1396g(e)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1396g/e/1)), assisted living facilities and skilled nursing facilities, intermediate care facilities for individuals with mental retardation, home and community based settings, and any other setting the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(b) Eligibility To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall—

(1) be an institution of higher education (as defined in [section 1002 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1002)) that—

(A) is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association listed under [section 1001(c) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001/c); and

(B) has established a public-private educational partnership with a nursing home or skilled nursing facility, agency or entity providing home and community based services to individuals with disabilities, or other long-term care provider; and

(2) submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(c) Use of funds An eligible entity shall use amounts awarded under a grant under this section to provide assistance to eligible individuals to offset the cost of tuition and required fees for enrollment in academic programs provided by such entity.

(d) Eligible individual

(1) Eligibility To be eligible for assistance under this section, an individual shall be enrolled in courses provided by a grantee under this subsection and maintain satisfactory academic progress in such courses.

(2) Condition of assistance As a condition of receiving assistance under this section, an individual shall agree that, following completion of the assistance period, the individual will work in the field of geriatrics, disability services, long term services and supports, or chronic care management for a minimum of 2 years under guidelines set by the Secretary.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $10,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2011 through 2013.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VII, § 747A, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5302](/us/pl/111/148/tV/s5302), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 617](/us/stat/124/617).)*
