---
title: "§ 1253. Age 64: regular commissioned officers in general and flag officer grades; exceptions"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1253"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1253"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, § 502(a)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tV/s502/a), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2176](/us/stat/120/2176); amended [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title V, § 504(a)](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tV/s504/a), (b)(1), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 807](/us/stat/129/807); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 508](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s508), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1346](/us/stat/133/1346); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 924(b)(3)(V)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s924/b/3/V), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 S"
---
# § 1253. Age 64: regular commissioned officers in general and flag officer grades; exceptions

##### § 1253. Age 64: regular commissioned officers in general and flag officer grades; exceptions

(a) General Rule.— Unless retired or separated earlier, each regular commissioned officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force serving in a general or flag officer grade shall be retired on the first day of the month following the month in which the officer becomes 64 years of age.

(b) Exception for Officers Serving in O–9and O–10Positions.— In the case of an officer serving in a position that carries a grade above major general or rear admiral, the retirement under subsection (a) of that officer may be deferred—

(1) by the President, but such a deferment may not extend beyond the first day of the month following the month in which the officer becomes 68 years of age; or

(2) by the Secretary of Defense, but such a deferment may not extend beyond the first day of the month following the month in which the officer becomes 66 years of age.

(c) Deferred Retirement of Chaplains.—

(1) The Secretary of the military department concerned may defer the retirement under subsection (a) of an officer serving in a general or flag officer grade who is the Chief of Chaplains or Deputy Chief of Chaplains of that officer’s armed force.

(2) A deferment of the retirement of an officer referred to in paragraph (1) may not extend beyond the first day of the month following the month in which the officer becomes 68 years of age.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, § 502(a)](/us/pl/109/364/dA/tV/s502/a), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2176](/us/stat/120/2176); amended [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title V, § 504(a)](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tV/s504/a), (b)(1), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 807](/us/stat/129/807); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, § 508](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tV/s508), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1346](/us/stat/133/1346); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 924(b)(3)(V)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s924/b/3/V), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3821](/us/stat/134/3821).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “Marine Corps, or Space Force” for “or Marine Corps”.

2019—Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) struck out par. (3) which read as follows: “The authority to defer the retirement of an officer referred to in paragraph (1) expires December 31, 2020. Subject to paragraph (2), a deferment granted before that date may continue on and after that date.”

2015—[Pub. L. 114–92, § 504(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/92/s504/b/1), substituted “Age 64: regular commissioned officers in general and flag officer grades; exceptions” for “Age 64: regular commissioned officers in general and flag officer grades; exception” in section catchline.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–92, § 504(a)](/us/pl/114/92/s504/a), added subsec. (c).
