---
title: "§ 6921. Establishment, composition, and meetings"
identifier: "USC-T40-S6921"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section6921"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1203](/us/stat/116/1203).)"
---
# § 6921. Establishment, composition, and meetings

##### § 6921. Establishment, composition, and meetings

(a) Establishment.— There is a National Visitor Facilities Advisory Commission.

(b) Composition.—

(1) Membership.— The Commission is composed of—

(A) the Secretary of the Interior;

(B) the Administrator of General Services;

(C) the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution;

(D) the Chairman of the National Capital Planning Commission;

(E) the Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts;

(F) six Members of the Senate, three from each party, to be appointed by the President of the Senate;

(G) six Members of the House of Representatives, three from each party, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and

(H) three individuals appointed by the President, at least two of whom shall not be officers of the Federal Government, and one member of whom shall be a representative of the District of Columbia government.

(2) Chairman.— The Secretary of the Interior serves as the Chairman of the Commission.

(3) Service of non-federal members.— Non-federal members serve at the pleasure of the President.

(c) Meetings.— The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1203](/us/stat/116/1203).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6921(a) | 40:821 (related to creation). | Pub. L. 90–264, title II, §§ 201 (related to creation), 202(a), Mar. 12, 1968, 82 Stat. 45. |
| 6921(b)(1) | 40:822(a) (1st sentence). |  |
| 6921(b)(2) | 40:822(a) (3d sentence). |  |
| 6921(b)(3) | 40:822(a) (2d sentence). |  |
| 6921(c) | 40:822(a) (last sentence). |  |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Commissions

Advisory commissions established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a commission established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such commission is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a commission established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
