---
title: "§ 3323. Eligibility for incentive awards"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–215, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/98/215/tIV/s402), Dec. 9, 1983, [97 Stat. 1477](/us/stat/97/1477); [Pub. L. 99–569, title V, § 503](/us/pl/99/569/tV/s503), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3198](/us/stat/100/3198).)"
---
# § 3323. Eligibility for incentive awards

##### § 3323. Eligibility for incentive awards

(a) Scope of authority with respect to Federal employees and members of Armed Forces The Director of Central Intelligence may exercise the authority granted in [section 4503 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s4503), with respect to Federal employees and members of the Armed Forces detailed or assigned to the Central Intelligence Agency or to the Intelligence Community Staff, in the same manner as such authority may be exercised with respect to the personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Intelligence Community Staff.

(b) Time for exercise of authority The authority granted by subsection (a) of this section may be exercised with respect to Federal employees or members of the Armed Forces detailed or assigned to the Central Intelligence Agency or to the Intelligence Community Staff on or after a date five years before December 9, 1983.

(c) Exercise of authority with respect to members of Armed Forces assigned to foreign intelligence duties During fiscal year 1987, the Director of Central Intelligence may exercise the authority granted in [section 4503(2) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s4503/2) with respect to members of the Armed Forces who are assigned to foreign intelligence duties at the time of the conduct which gives rise to the exercise of such authority.

(d) Payment and acceptance of award An award made by the Director of Central Intelligence to an employee or member of the Armed Forces under the authority of [section 4503 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s4503) or this section may be paid and accepted notwithstanding—

(1) [section 5536 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5536); and

(2) the death, separation, or retirement of the employee or the member of the Armed Forces whose conduct gave rise to the award, or the assignment of such member to duties other than foreign intelligence duties.

*([Pub. L. 98–215, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/98/215/tIV/s402), Dec. 9, 1983, [97 Stat. 1477](/us/stat/97/1477); [Pub. L. 99–569, title V, § 503](/us/pl/99/569/tV/s503), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3198](/us/stat/100/3198).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403e–1 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403e–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1986—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 99–569](/us/pl/99/569) added subsecs. (c) and (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence. Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. See section 1081(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458), set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
