---
title: "§ 3995. Mineral permits and leases"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3995"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3995"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title V, § 505, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2857](/us/stat/117/2857).)"
---
# § 3995. Mineral permits and leases

##### § 3995. Mineral permits and leases

(a) Suspension during military service A person holding a permit or lease on the public domain under the Federal mineral leasing laws who enters military service may suspend all operations under the permit or lease for the duration of military service and for 180 days thereafter. The term of the permit or lease shall not run during the period of suspension, nor shall any rental or royalties be charged against the permit or lease during the period of suspension.

(b) Notification In order to obtain the protection of this section, the permittee or lessee shall, within 180 days after entry into military service, notify the Secretary of the Interior by registered mail of the fact that military service has begun and of the desire to hold the claim under this section.

(c) Contract modification This section shall not be construed to supersede the terms of any contract for operation of a permit or lease.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title V, § 505, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2857](/us/stat/117/2857).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 565 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 505 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. V, [54 Stat. 1188](/us/stat/54/1188); [Pub. L. 102–12, § 9(20)](/us/pl/102/12/s9/20), Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 41](/us/stat/105/41), related to mining claims and the suspension of requirements, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189). See [section 3994 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3994).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
