---
title: "§ 300x–6. Application for grant"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300x–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300x–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1917, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 201(2)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s201/2), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 384](/us/stat/106/384); amended [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3204(d)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXII/s3204/d), (e), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1193](/us/stat/114/1193); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, § 8001(e)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVIII/s8001/e), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/130/1229).)"
---
# § 300x–6. Application for grant

##### § 300x–6. Application for grant

(a) In general For purposes of [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x), an application for a grant under such section for a fiscal year in accordance with this section if, subject to subsection (b)—

(1) the plan is received by the Secretary not later than September 1 of the fiscal year prior to the fiscal year for which a State is seeking funds, and the report from the previous fiscal year as required under [section 300x–52(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–52/a) is received by December 1 of the fiscal year of the grant;

(2) the application contains each funding agreement that is described in this subpart or subpart III for such a grant (other than any such agreement that is not applicable to the State);

(3) the agreements are made through certification from the chief executive officer of the State;

(4) with respect to such agreements, the application provides assurances of compliance satisfactory to the Secretary;

(5) the application contains the plan required in [section 300x–1(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–1/a), the information required in [section 300x–4(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–4/b), and the report required in [section 300x–52(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–52/a);

(6) the application contains recommendations in compliance with [section 300x–4(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–4/a), or if no such recommendations are received by the State, the application otherwise demonstrates compliance with such section; and

(7) the application (including the plan under [section 300x–1(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–1/a)) is otherwise in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this subpart.

(b) Waivers regarding certain territories In the case of any territory of the United States except Puerto Rico, the Secretary may waive such provisions of this subpart and subpart III as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, other than the provisions of [section 300x–5 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–5).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1917, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 201(2)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s201/2), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 384](/us/stat/106/384); amended [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3204(d)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXII/s3204/d), (e), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1193](/us/stat/114/1193); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, § 8001(e)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVIII/s8001/e), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/130/1229).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 300x–6, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XIX, § 1918](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tXIX/s1918), formerly § 1917, as added Aug. 13, 1981, [Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/97/35/tIX/s901), [95 Stat. 550](/us/stat/95/550); renumbered § 1918 and amended Oct. 19, 1984, [Pub. L. 98–509, title I, § 106(d)](/us/pl/98/509/tI/s106/d), (g), [98 Stat. 2358](/us/stat/98/2358), 2359, authorized withholding funds from States which did not use allotments of grants for alcohol, drug abuse, and mental health services in accordance with requirements, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–321, § 201(2)](/us/pl/102/321/s201/2).

A prior section 1917 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 300x–5 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–5) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321).

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 8001(e)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/s8001/e/1), substituted “300x–52(a)” for “300x–51”.

Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 8001(e)(2)](/us/pl/114/255/s8001/e/2), substituted “300x–4(b)” for “300x–4(b)(3)(B)”.

2000—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 106–310, § 3204(d)](/us/pl/106/310/s3204/d), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “the State involved submits the application not later than the date specified by the Secretary as being the date after which applications for such a grant will not be considered (in any case in which the Secretary specifies such a date);”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 106–310, § 3204(e)](/us/pl/106/310/s3204/e), substituted “except Puerto Rico” for “whose allotment under [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x) for the fiscal year is the amount specified in [section 300x–7(c)(2)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–7/c/2/B)”.
