---
title: "§ 459. Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area; conditional establishment; acquisition of lands"
identifier: "USC-T16-S459"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section459"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Aug. 17, 1937, ch. 687, § 1](/us/act/1937-08-17/ch687/s1), [50 Stat. 669](/us/stat/50/669); [June 29, 1940, ch. 459, § 1](/us/act/1940-06-29/ch459/s1), [54 Stat. 702](/us/stat/54/702).)"
---
# § 459. Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area; conditional establishment; acquisition of lands

##### § 459. Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area; conditional establishment; acquisition of lands

When title to all the lands, except those within the limits of established villages, within boundaries to be designated by the Secretary of the Interior within the area of approximately one hundred square miles on the islands of Chicamacomico, Ocracoke, Bodie, Roanoke, and Collington,11 So in original. Probably should be “Colington,”. and the waters and the lands beneath the waters adjacent thereto shall have been vested in the United States, said area shall be, and is, established, dedicated, and set apart as a national seashore recreational area for the benefit and enjoyment of the people and shall be known as the Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area: *Provided*, That the United States shall not purchase by appropriation of public moneys any lands within the aforesaid area, but such lands shall be secured by the United States only by public or private donation.

*([Aug. 17, 1937, ch. 687, § 1](/us/act/1937-08-17/ch687/s1), [50 Stat. 669](/us/stat/50/669); [June 29, 1940, ch. 459, § 1](/us/act/1940-06-29/ch459/s1), [54 Stat. 702](/us/stat/54/702).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Words “national seashore recreational area” substituted in text for “national seashore” pursuant to act June 29, 1940.
