---
title: "§ 460s–3. Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore Advisory Commission"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460s–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460s–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–668, § 4](/us/pl/89/668/s4), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 922](/us/stat/80/922).)"
---
# § 460s–3. Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore Advisory Commission

##### § 460s–3. Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore Advisory Commission

(a) Establishment; termination There is hereby established a Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore Advisory Commission. Said commission shall terminate ten years after the date the lakeshore is established pursuant to this subchapter.

(b) Membership; term The commission shall be composed of five members, each appointed for a term of two years by the Secretary, as follows:

(1) Two members to be appointed from recommendations made by the county in which the lakeshore is situated;

(2) Two members to be appointed from recommendations made by the Governor of the State of Michigan; and

(3) One member to be designated by the Secretary.

(c) Chairman; vacancies The Secretary shall designate one member to be chairman. Any vacancy in the commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

(d) Compensation and expenses Members of the commission shall serve without compensation as such. The Secretary is authorized to pay the expenses reasonably incurred by the commission in carrying out its responsibilities under this subchapter on vouchers signed by the chairman.

(e) Development consultations The Secretary or his designee shall, from time to time, consult with the commission with respect to the matters relating to the development of the Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore.

*([Pub. L. 89–668, § 4](/us/pl/89/668/s4), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 922](/us/stat/80/922).)*
