---
title: "§ 8703. Issuance of orders"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. E, § 1304](/us/pl/115/254/dE/s1304), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3471](/us/stat/132/3471).)"
---
# § 8703. Issuance of orders

##### § 8703. Issuance of orders

(a) In general

(1) Issuance The Secretary, subject to the procedures provided in subsection (b), shall issue orders under this chapter applicable to manufacturers of concrete masonry products.

(2) Scope Any order shall be national in scope.

(3) One order Not more than 1 order shall be in effect at any one time.

(b) Procedures

(1) Development or receipt of proposed order A proposed order with respect to the generic research, education, and promotion with regards to concrete masonry products may be—

(A) proposed by the Secretary at any time; or

(B) requested by or submitted to the Secretary by—

(i) an existing national organization of concrete masonry product manufacturers; or

(ii) any person that may be affected by the issuance of an order.

(2) Publication of proposed order If the Secretary determines that a proposed order received in accordance with paragraph (1)(B) is consistent with and will effectuate the purpose of this chapter, the Secretary shall publish such proposed order in the Federal Register not later than 90 days after receiving the order, and give not less than 30 days notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order.

(3) Issuance of order

(A) In general After notice and opportunity for public comment are provided in accordance with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue the order, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the order such provisions as are necessary to ensure that the order is in conformity with this chapter.

(B) Effective date If there is an affirmative vote in a referendum as provided in [section 8706 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8706), the Secretary shall issue the order and such order shall be effective not later than 140 days after publication of the proposed order.

(c) Amendments The Secretary may, from time to time, amend an order. The provisions of this chapter applicable to an order shall be applicable to any amendment to an order.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. E, § 1304](/us/pl/115/254/dE/s1304), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3471](/us/stat/132/3471).)*
