---
title: "§ 9673. Prohibition on support in countries that support terrorism or violate human rights and with sanctioned persons"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9673"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9673"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title V, § 1453](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tV/s1453), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3510](/us/stat/132/3510).)"
---
# § 9673. Prohibition on support in countries that support terrorism or violate human rights and with sanctioned persons

##### § 9673. Prohibition on support in countries that support terrorism or violate human rights and with sanctioned persons

(a) In general The Corporation is prohibited from providing support under subchapter II of this chapter for a government, or an entity owned or controlled by a government, if the Secretary of State has determined that the government—

(1) has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism for purposes of—

(A) [section 4813(c)(1)(A)(i) of title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4813/c/1/A/i);

(B) [section 2371(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2371/a);

(C) [section 2780(d) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2780/d); or

(D) any other relevant provision of law; or

(2) has engaged in a consistent pattern of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights for purposes of section 2151n(a) or 2304(a)(2) of this title or any other relevant provision of law.

(b) Prohibition on support of sanctioned persons The Corporation is prohibited from all dealings related to any project under subchapter II of this chapter prohibited under United States sanctions laws or regulations, including dealings with persons on the list of specially designated persons and blocked persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury, except to the extent otherwise authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary of State.

(c) Prohibition on support of activities subject to sanctions The Corporation shall require any person receiving support under subchapter II of this chapter to certify that the person, and any entity owned or controlled by the person, is in compliance with all United States sanctions laws and regulations.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title V, § 1453](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tV/s1453), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3510](/us/stat/132/3510).)*
