---
title: "§ 8707. Petition and review"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. E, § 1308](/us/pl/115/254/dE/s1308), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3480](/us/stat/132/3480).)"
---
# § 8707. Petition and review

##### § 8707. Petition and review

(a) Petition

(1) In general A person subject to an order issued under this chapter may file with the Secretary a petition—

(A) stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order, is not established in accordance with law; and

(B) requesting a modification of the order or an exemption from the order.

(2) Hearing The Secretary shall give the petitioner an opportunity for a hearing on the petition, in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary.

(3) Ruling After the hearing, the Secretary shall make a ruling on the petition. The ruling shall be final, subject to review as set forth in subsection (b).

(4) Limitation on petition Any petition filed under this subsection challenging an order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order, shall be filed not less than 2 years after the effective date of the order, provision, or obligation subject to challenge in the petition.

(b) Review

(1) Commencement of action The district courts of the United States in any district in which a person who is a petitioner under subsection (a) resides or conducts business shall have jurisdiction to review the ruling of the Secretary on the petition of the person, if a complaint requesting the review is filed no later than 30 days after the date of the entry of the ruling by the Secretary.

(2) Process Service of process in proceedings under this subsection shall be conducted in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(3) Remands If the court in a proceeding under this subsection determines that the ruling of the Secretary on the petition of the person is not in accordance with law, the court shall remand the matter to the Secretary with directions—

(A) to make such ruling as the court shall determine to be in accordance with law; or

(B) to take such further action as, in the opinion of the court, the law requires.

(c) Enforcement The pendency of proceedings instituted under this section shall not impede, hinder, or delay the Attorney General or the Secretary from obtaining relief under [section 8708 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8708).

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. E, § 1308](/us/pl/115/254/dE/s1308), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3480](/us/stat/132/3480).)*
