---
title: "§ 21071. National Student and Parent Mock Election"
identifier: "USC-T52-S21071"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section21071"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 295](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s295), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1703](/us/stat/116/1703).)"
---
# § 21071. National Student and Parent Mock Election

##### § 21071. National Student and Parent Mock Election

(a) In general The Election Assistance Commission is authorized to award grants to the National Student and Parent Mock Election, a national nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that works to promote voter participation in American elections to enable it to carry out voter education activities for students and their parents. Such activities may—

(1) include simulated national elections at least 5 days before the actual election that permit participation by students and parents from each of the 50 States in the United States, its territories, the District of Columbia, and United States schools overseas; and

(2) consist of—

(A) school forums and local cable call-in shows on the national issues to be voted upon in an “issues forum”;

(B) speeches and debates before students and parents by local candidates or stand-ins for such candidates;

(C) quiz team competitions, mock press conferences, and speech writing competitions;

(D) weekly meetings to follow the course of the campaign; or

(E) school and neighborhood campaigns to increase voter turnout, including newsletters, posters, telephone chains, and transportation.

(b) Requirement The National Student and Parent Mock Election shall present awards to outstanding student and parent mock election projects.

*([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 295](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s295), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1703](/us/stat/116/1703).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15471 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15471), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
