---
title: "§ 1427–1. Quality requirements for Commodity Credit Corporation owned grain"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1427–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1427–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Oct. 31, 1949, ch. 792](/us/act/1949-10-31/ch792), title IV, § 407A, as added [Pub. L. 101–624, title XX, § 2012](/us/pl/101/624/tXX/s2012), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3933](/us/stat/104/3933).)"
---
# § 1427–1. Quality requirements for Commodity Credit Corporation owned grain

##### § 1427–1. Quality requirements for Commodity Credit Corporation owned grain

(a) Establishment of minimum standards Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall establish minimum quality standards that shall apply to grain that is deposited for storage for the account of the Commodity Credit Corporation. In establishing such standards, the Secretary shall take into consideration factors related to the ability of grain to withstand storage and assurance of acceptable end-use performance.

(b) Inspection of grain acquisitions The Commodity Credit Corporation shall utilize Federal Grain Inspection Service approved procedures to inspect and evaluate the condition of the grain it acquires from producers. In no case shall this section require the use of an official inspection unless the producer so requests.

*([Oct. 31, 1949, ch. 792](/us/act/1949-10-31/ch792), title IV, § 407A, as added [Pub. L. 101–624, title XX, § 2012](/us/pl/101/624/tXX/s2012), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3933](/us/stat/104/3933).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Inapplicability of Section

Section inapplicable to 2014 through 2018 crops of covered commodities, cotton, and sugar and inapplicable to milk during period beginning Feb. 7, 2014, through Dec. 31, 2018, see [section 9092(b)(10) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s9092/b/10).

Section inapplicable to 2008 through 2012 crops of covered commodities, peanuts, and sugar and inapplicable to milk during period beginning June 18, 2008, through Dec. 31, 2012, see [section 8782(b)(10) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8782/b/10).

Section inapplicable to 2002 through 2007 crops of covered commodities, peanuts, and sugar and inapplicable to milk during period beginning May 13, 2002, through Dec. 31, 2007, see [section 7992(b)(10) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7992/b/10).

Section inapplicable to 1996 through 2002 crops of loan commodities, peanuts, and sugar and inapplicable to milk during period beginning Apr. 4, 1996, and ending Dec. 31, 2002, see [section 7301(b)(1)(J) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7301/b/1/J).
