---
title: "§ 70707. Staff of Commission"
identifier: "USC-T51-S70707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section70707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3435](/us/stat/124/3435).)"
---
# § 70707. Staff of Commission

##### § 70707. Staff of Commission

(a) Appointment and Compensation.— The Chairman, in consultation with the Vice Chairman, in accordance with rules agreed upon by a Commission, may appoint and fix the compensation of a staff director and such other personnel as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions.

(b) Detailees.— Any Federal Government employee, except for an employee of the Administration, may be detailed to a Commission without reimbursement from the Commission, and such detailee shall retain the rights, status, and privileges of his or her regular employment without interruption.

(c) Consultant Services.— A Commission may procure the services of experts and consultants in accordance with [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109), but at rates not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315). An expert or consultant whose services are procured under this subsection shall disclose any contract or association the expert or consultant has with the Administration or any Administration contractor.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3435](/us/stat/124/3435).)*

In subsection (c), in the 1st sentence, the words “the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315)” are substituted for “the daily rate paid a person occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315)” for consistency in title 51.

In subsection (c), in the last sentence, the words “the expert or consultant” are substituted for “it” for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 70707 | 42 U.S.C. 16847. | Pub. L. 109–155, title VIII, § 827, Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2943. |
