---
title: "§ 10644. Requirements"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10644"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10644"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2988](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2988), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title I, § 11027(b)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tI/s11027/b), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1835](/us/stat/116/1835).)"
---
# § 10644. Requirements

##### § 10644. Requirements

(a) Training and technical assistance The rural State shall provide training and technical assistance, including through such groups as the National Crime Prevention Council, to assist local communities in developing Crime Prevention Plans that reflect statewide strategic goals and objectives, and performance targets and measures.

(b) Reports The rural State shall provide a report on its statewide strategic plan to the Attorney General, including information about—

(1) involvement of relevant State-level agencies to assist communities in the development and implementation of their Crime Prevention Plans;

(2) support for local applications for Community Grants; and

(3) community progress toward reducing crime, violence, and substance abuse.

(c) Certification Beginning in the third year of the program, States must certify that the local grantee’s project funded under the community grant is generally consistent with statewide strategic goals and objectives, and performance targets and measures.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2988](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2988), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title I, § 11027(b)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tI/s11027/b), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1835](/us/stat/116/1835).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797y–3 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797y–3), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
