---
title: "§ 1662. Automated management information system"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1662"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1662"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/94/437/tVI/s602), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/100/713/tVI/s601/a), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4825](/us/stat/102/4825); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title IX, § 901(3)](/us/pl/102/573/tIX/s901/3), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4591](/us/stat/106/4591).)"
---
# § 1662. Automated management information system

##### § 1662. Automated management information system

(a) Establishment

(1) The Secretary shall establish an automated management information system for the Service.

(2) The information system established under paragraph (1) shall include—

(A) a financial management system,

(B) a patient care information system for each area served by the Service,

(C) a privacy component that protects the privacy of patient information held by, or on behalf of, the Service, and

(D) a services-based cost accounting component that provides estimates of the costs associated with the provision of specific medical treatments or services in each area office of the Service.

(b) Provision to Indian tribes and organizations; reimbursement

(1) The Secretary shall provide each Indian tribe and tribal organization that provides health services under a contract entered into with the Service under the Indian Self-Determination Act [[25 U.S.C. 5321](/us/usc/t25/s5321) et seq.] automated management information systems which—

(A) meet the management information needs of such Indian tribe or tribal organization with respect to the treatment by the Indian tribe or tribal organization of patients of the Service, and

(B) meet the management information needs of the Service.

(2) The Secretary shall reimburse each Indian tribe or tribal organization for the part of the cost of the operation of a system provided under paragraph (1) which is attributable to the treatment by such Indian tribe or tribal organization of patients of the Service.

(3) The Secretary shall provide systems under paragraph (1) to Indian tribes and tribal organizations providing health services in California by no later than September 30, 1990.

(c) Access to records Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each patient shall have reasonable access to the medical or health records of such patient which are held by, or on behalf of, the Service.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/94/437/tVI/s602), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/100/713/tVI/s601/a), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4825](/us/stat/102/4825); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title IX, § 901(3)](/us/pl/102/573/tIX/s901/3), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4591](/us/stat/106/4591).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is title I of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/88/2206), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 5321 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 102–573](/us/pl/102/573) struck out par. (3) which directed Secretary to submit report to Congress no later than Sept. 30, 1989.
