---
title: "§ 10121. Statement of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10121"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10121"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 201](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s201), as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1172](/us/stat/93/1172); amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 604(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s604/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2078](/us/stat/98/2078).)"
---
# § 10121. Statement of purpose

##### § 10121. Statement of purpose

(1) improving Federal, State, and local criminal justice systems and related aspects of the civil justice system;

(2) preventing and reducing crimes;

(3) insuring citizen access to appropriate dispute-resolution forums; and

(4) identifying programs of proven effectiveness, programs having a record of proven success, or programs which offer a high probability of improving the functioning of the criminal justice system.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 201](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s201), as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1172](/us/stat/93/1172); amended [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 604(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s604/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2078](/us/stat/98/2078).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), as added by [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1167](/us/stat/93/1167), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3721 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3721), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 201 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s201), title I, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 198](/us/stat/82/198); [Pub. L. 93–83, § 2](/us/pl/93/83/s2), Aug. 6, 1973, [87 Stat. 197](/us/stat/87/197); [Pub. L. 94–503, title I, § 104](/us/pl/94/503/tI/s104), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2408](/us/stat/90/2408), set out Congressional statement of purpose in providing for a program of planning grants, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 96–157](/us/pl/96/157).

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) redesignated par. (5) as (4), struck out former par. (4) relating to improvement of efforts to detect, investigate, prosecute, and otherwise combat and prevent white-collar crime and public corruption, and in closing provisions struck out “to develop alternatives to judicial resolution of disputes,” after “local governments,”, and inserted “and demonstrate” after “to develop”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 609AA(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609AA/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).

#### National Training Program for State and Local Prosecutors

[Pub. L. 110–424](/us/pl/110/424), Oct. 15, 2008, [122 Stat. 4819](/us/stat/122/4819), provided that: “SECTION 1. TRAINING FOR STATE AND LOCAL PROSECUTORS.“The Attorney General is authorized to award a grant to a national nonprofit organization (such as the National District Attorneys Association) to conduct a national training program for State and local prosecutors for the purpose of improving the professional skills of State and local prosecutors and enhancing the ability of Federal, State, and local prosecutors to work together. “SEC. 2. COMPREHENSIVE CONTINUING LEGAL EDUCATION.“The Attorney General may provide assistance to the grantee under section 1 to carry out the training program described in such section, including comprehensive continuing legal education in the areas of trial practice, substantive legal updates, support staff training, and any other assistance the Attorney General determines to be appropriate. “SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.“There are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General to carry out this Act $4,750,000 for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 2012, to remain available until expended.”
