---
title: "§ 2803. Designation of major wine trading countries"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2803"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2803"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–573, title IX, § 904](/us/pl/98/573/tIX/s904), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3048](/us/stat/98/3048).)"
---
# § 2803. Designation of major wine trading countries

##### § 2803. Designation of major wine trading countries

(a) The Trade Representative shall designate as a major wine trading country each foreign country, or group of foreign countries represented as an economic union, that, in the judgment of the Trade Representative—

(1) is a potential significant market for United States wine; and

(2) maintains tariff barriers or nontariff barriers to (or other distortions of) trade in United States wine.

(b) In deciding, for purposes of subsection (a)(2), whether a foreign country or group of countries maintains nontariff barriers to (or other distortions of) trade in United States wine, the Trade Representative shall take into account—

(1) the review and report required under section 854(a) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 ([19 U.S.C. 2135](/us/usc/t19/s2135) note);

(2) such relevant actions that may have been taken by that country or group since that review was conducted; and

(3) such information as may be submitted under [section 2805 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2805) by representatives of the wine and grape products industries in the United States, as well as other sources.

*([Pub. L. 98–573, title IX, § 904](/us/pl/98/573/tIX/s904), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 3048](/us/stat/98/3048).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 854(a) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is [section 854(a) of Pub. L. 96–39](/us/pl/96/39/s854/a), title VIII, July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 294](/us/stat/93/294), which is set out as a note under [section 2135 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2135).
