---
title: "§ 5207. Availability and allocation of funds; royalties from mineral deposits"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5207"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5207"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1936, ch. 831, § 7](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831/s7), [49 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/49/1968).)"
---
# § 5207. Availability and allocation of funds; royalties from mineral deposits

##### § 5207. Availability and allocation of funds; royalties from mineral deposits

All funds appropriated under the several grants of authority contained in the Act of June 18, 1934 ([48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984)) [[25 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t25/s5101) et seq.], are hereby made available for use under the provisions of this chapter, and Oklahoma Indians shall be accorded and allocated a fair and just share of any and all funds appropriated after June 26, 1936, under the authorization herein set forth: *Provided*, That any royalties, bonuses, or other revenues derived from mineral deposits underlying lands purchased in Oklahoma under the authority granted by this chapter, or by the Act of June 18, 1934, shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States, and such revenues are made available for expenditure by the Secretary of the Interior for the acquisition of lands and for loans to Indians in Oklahoma as authorized by this chapter and by the Act of June 18, 1934 ([48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984)).

*([June 26, 1936, ch. 831, § 7](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831/s7), [49 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/49/1968).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, is classified generally to chapter 45 (§ 5101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 507 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s507) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
