---
title: "§ 1030. Consolidation of agricultural credit and service offices"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1030"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1030"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1946, ch. 964, § 7](/us/act/1946-08-14/ch964/s7), [60 Stat. 1079](/us/stat/60/1079).)"
---
# § 1030. Consolidation of agricultural credit and service offices

##### § 1030. Consolidation of agricultural credit and service offices

The Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration are directed, wherever practicable, to make suitable arrangements whereby all field offices under their supervision or direction extending agricultural credit or furnishing agricultural services to farmers to utilize the same or adjacent offices to the end that eligible farmers in each locality will be enabled to obtain their agricultural credit and services at one central point.

*([Aug. 14, 1946, ch. 964, § 7](/us/act/1946-08-14/ch964/s7), [60 Stat. 1079](/us/stat/60/1079).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Farmers’ Home Administration Act of 1946, and not as part of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act which constitutes a major part of this chapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Exceptions From Transfer of Functions

Functions of Corporations of Department of Agriculture, boards of directors and officers of such corporations; Advisory Board of the Commodity Credit Corporation; and Farm Credit Administration or any agency, officer, or entity of, under, or subject to supervision of the said Administration were excepted from functions of officers, agencies, and employees transferred to Secretary of Agriculture by 1953 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2201).
