---
title: "§ 20203. Original appointments: service credit"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20203"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20203"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 632](/us/stat/137/632).)"
---
# § 20203. Original appointments: service credit

##### § 20203. Original appointments: service credit

(a) In General.— The provisions of [section 533 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s533) shall apply to the crediting of prior active commissioned service for original appointments of commissioned officers.

(b) Credit for Prior Service.—

(1) For the purpose of determining the grade and rank within grade of a person receiving an original appointment in a commissioned grade in the Space Force, such person shall be credited at the time of such appointment with any commissioned service (other than service as a commissioned warrant officer) that the person performed before such appointment—

(A) as a Space Force officer on active duty or in a space force active status; or

(B) as a regular officer, or as a reserve officer in an active status, in any uniformed service.

(2) The regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense under [section 533 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s533) shall apply to the Space Force to authorize the Secretary of the Air Force to limit the amount of prior active commissioned service with which a person receiving an original appointment may be credited under paragraph (1).

(b) Credit for Education, Training, and Experience.—

(1) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary shall credit a person who is receiving an original appointment in a commissioned grade in the Space Force and who has advanced education, training, or special experience with constructive service for such education, training, or experience in a particular officer career field as designated by the Secretary of the Air Force, if such education, training, or experience is directly related to the operational needs of the Space Force.

(2)

(A) The Secretary may credit a person with constructive service under this subsection for each instance of relevant advanced education or training or special experience regardless of whether two or more such instances are concurrent.

(B) The Secretary may not credit more than 20 persons with an amount of constructive credit under this paragraph in any year.

(3) The amount of constructive service credited an officer under this subsection may not exceed the amount required in order for the officer to be eligible for an original appointment in the grade of colonel.

(4) Constructive service credited an officer under this subsection is in addition to any service credited that officer under subsection (a) and shall be credited at the time of the original appointment of the officer.

(5) Not later than December 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit a report to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives regarding the amount of constructive service credited under this subsection during the preceding calendar year.

(c) Authorized Use of Constructive Credit.— Constructive service credited an officer under subsection (b) shall be used only for determining the officer’s—

(1) initial grade;

(2) rank in grade; and

(3) service in grade for promotion eligibility.

(d) Exclusion for Graduates of the Service Academies.— A graduate of a Service Academy (as such term is defined in [section 347 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s347)) is not entitled to service credit under this section for service performed, or education, training, or experience obtained, before graduation from such Service Academy.

(e) Reserve Officers.— A reserve officer (other than a warrant officer) who receives an original appointment as an officer in the Space Force shall—

(1) in the case of an officer on the active-duty list of an armed force immediately before that appointment, be appointed in the same grade and with the same date of rank as the grade and date of rank held by the officer on the active-duty list immediately before the appointment; and

(2) in the case of an officer not on the active-duty list immediately before that appointment, be appointed in the same grade and with the same date of rank as the grade and date of rank which the officer would have held had the officer been serving on the active-duty list on the date of the appointment.

(f) Continuity of Existing Delegation of Presidential Appointment Functions.— Except as otherwise provided by the President by Executive order, the provisions of Executive Order 13384 ([10 U.S.C. 531](/us/usc/t10/s531) note) relating to the functions of the President under [section 531(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s531/a) shall apply in the same manner to functions of the President under [section 20201 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20201).

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 632](/us/stat/137/632).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order 13384, referred to in subsec. (f), is Ex. Ord. No. 13384, July 27, 2005, 70 F.R. 43739, which is set out as a note under [section 531 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s531).
