---
title: "§ 151307. Provision and acceptance of support by Administrator"
identifier: "USC-T36-S151307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section151307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1401](/us/stat/112/1401); [Pub. L. 106–503, title I, § 113(d)](/us/pl/106/503/tI/s113/d), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/114/2304); [Pub. L. 108–169, title II, § 206(c)](/us/pl/108/169/tII/s206/c), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2041](/us/stat/117/2041).)"
---
# § 151307. Provision and acceptance of support by Administrator

##### § 151307. Provision and acceptance of support by Administrator

(a) Provision by Administrator.—

(1) The Administrator of the United States Fire Administration of the Federal Emergency Management Agency—

(A) may provide personnel, facilities, and other administrative services to the corporation; and

(B) may require and accept reimbursements for these personnel, facilities, and services.

(2) Reimbursements under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations then current and chargeable for the cost of providing the services.

(3) Notwithstanding any other law, United States Government personnel and stationery may not be used to solicit funding for the corporation.

(b) Acceptance by Administrator.— The Administrator may accept, without regard to chapters 33 and 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 and related regulations, the services of the corporation and its directors, officers, and employees as volunteers in performing functions authorized under this chapter, without compensation from the Administration.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1401](/us/stat/112/1401); [Pub. L. 106–503, title I, § 113(d)](/us/pl/106/503/tI/s113/d), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2304](/us/stat/114/2304); [Pub. L. 108–169, title II, § 206(c)](/us/pl/108/169/tII/s206/c), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2041](/us/stat/117/2041).)*

In subsection (b), the words “chapters 33 and 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 and related regulations” are substituted for “the Federal civil service classification laws, rules, or regulations” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 151307(a) | 36:5204. | Oct. 26, 1992, Pub. L. 102–522, title II, §§ 205, 206, 106 Stat. 3419. |
| 151307(b) | 36:5205. |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section 5204 of former Title 36, from which subsec. (a) of this section was derived, was amended generally after the Aug. 15, 1997, cutoff date by [Pub. L. 105–276, title IV, § 427(c)](/us/pl/105/276/tIV/s427/c), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2511](/us/stat/112/2511), see [section 5(a) of Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225/s5/a), set out as a Legislative Purpose and Construction note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s101). The subsequent amendment made directly to this section by [Pub. L. 106–503](/us/pl/106/503) replicated the prior amendment made by [Pub. L. 105–276](/us/pl/105/276), with the following exceptions—(1) in the introductory provisions of subsec. (a)(1), the words “During the 10-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 2000” were used instead of “During the 10-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999”, (2) in subsec. (a)(1)(A), the words “other administrative services to” were used instead of “other required services for the operation of”, and (3) in subsec. (a)(1)(B), the words “may require and accept reimbursements” were used instead of “may accept reimbursement”.

#### Amendments

2003—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 108–169](/us/pl/108/169) substituted “The” for “During the 10-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 2000, the”.

2000—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 106–503, § 113(d)(1)](/us/pl/106/503/s113/d/1), substituted “During the 10-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 2000, the Administrator” for “The Administrator” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 106–503, § 113(d)(2)](/us/pl/106/503/s113/d/2), substituted “may” for “shall”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see [section 315(a)(1) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s315/a/1), Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
