---
title: "§ 6106. Grants to States"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6106"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6106"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–178, title VII, § 7302(a)](/us/pl/105/178/tVII/s7302/a), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 482](/us/stat/112/482).)"
---
# § 6106. Grants to States

##### § 6106. Grants to States

(a) In General.— The Secretary may make a grant of financial assistance to a State that qualifies under section 6104(b) to assist in improving—

(1) the overall quality and effectiveness of one-call notification systems in the State;

(2) communications systems linking one-call notification systems;

(3) location capabilities, including training personnel and developing and using location technology;

(4) record retention and recording capabilities for one-call notification systems;

(5) public information and education;

(6) participation in one-call notification systems; or

(7) compliance and enforcement under the State one-call notification program.

(b) State Action Taken Into Account.— In making grants under this section, the Secretary shall take into consideration the commitment of each State to improving its State one-call notification program, including legislative and regulatory actions taken by the State after the date of enactment of this chapter.

(c) Funding for One-Call Notification Systems.— A State may provide funds received under this section directly to any one-call notification system in such State that substantially adopts the best practices identified under section 6105.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–178, title VII, § 7302(a)](/us/pl/105/178/tVII/s7302/a), June 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 482](/us/stat/112/482).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 105–178](/us/pl/105/178), which was approved June 9, 1998.
