---
title: "§ 60125. Agency activities"
identifier: "USC-T51-S60125"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section60125"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3416](/us/stat/124/3416).)"
---
# § 60125. Agency activities

##### § 60125. Agency activities

(a) License Application and Issuance.— A private sector party may apply for a license to operate a private remote sensing space system which utilizes, on a space-available basis, a civilian United States Government satellite or vehicle as a platform for such system. The Secretary, pursuant to this subchapter, may license such system if it meets all conditions of this subchapter and—

(1) the system operator agrees to reimburse the Government in a timely manner for all related costs incurred with respect to such utilization, including a reasonable and proportionate share of fixed, platform, data transmission, and launch costs; and

(2) such utilization would not interfere with or otherwise compromise intended civilian Government missions, as determined by the agency responsible for such civilian platform.

(b) Assistance.— The Secretary may offer assistance to private sector parties in finding appropriate opportunities for such utilization.

(c) Agreements.— To the extent provided in advance by appropriation Acts, any United States Government agency may enter into agreements for such utilization if such agreements are consistent with such agency’s mission and statutory authority, and if such remote sensing space system is licensed by the Secretary before commencing operation.

(d) Applicability.— This section does not apply to activities carried out under subchapter IV.

(e) Effect on FCC Authority.— Nothing in this subchapter shall affect the authority of the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t47/s151) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3416](/us/stat/124/3416).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 60125 | 15 U.S.C. 5625. | Pub. L. 102–555, title II, § 205, Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 4173. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Communications Act of 1934, referred to in subsec. (e), is [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), which is classified principally to chapter 5 (§ 151 et seq.) of Title 47, Telecommunications. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of Title 47](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.
