---
title: "§ 9584. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T20-S9584"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section9584"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–279, title I, § 194](/us/pl/107/279/tI/s194), Nov. 5, 2002, [116 Stat. 1975](/us/stat/116/1975).)"
---
# § 9584. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 9584. Authorization of appropriations

(a) In general There are authorized to be appropriated to administer and carry out this subchapter (except [section 9564 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s9564)) $400,000,000 for fiscal year 2003 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years, of which—

(1) not less than the amount provided to the National Center for Education Statistics (as such Center was in existence on the day before November 5, 2002) for fiscal year 2002 shall be provided to the National Center for Education Statistics, as authorized under part C; and

(2) not more than the lesser of 2 percent of such funds or $1,000,000 shall be made available to carry out [section 9516 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s9516) (relating to the National Board for Education Sciences).

(b) Regional educational laboratories There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out [section 9564 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s9564) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2003 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years. Of the amounts appropriated under the preceding sentence for a fiscal year, the Director shall obligate not less than 25 percent to carry out such purpose with respect to rural areas (including schools funded by the Bureau which are located in rural areas).

(c) Availability Amounts made available under this section shall remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 107–279, title I, § 194](/us/pl/107/279/tI/s194), Nov. 5, 2002, [116 Stat. 1975](/us/stat/116/1975).)*
