---
title: "§ 12806. Home repair services grants for older and disabled homeowners"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12806"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12806"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 256](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s256), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4122](/us/stat/104/4122).)"
---
# § 12806. Home repair services grants for older and disabled homeowners

##### § 12806. Home repair services grants for older and disabled homeowners

(a) In general The Secretary shall make available a model program to provide home repair services for older homeowners and disabled homeowners, including such services as the examination of homes, repair services, and follow-up to ensure the continued effectiveness of the repairs provided.

(b) Eligible recipients Home repair services shall be provided to homeowners who—

(1) own and reside in the dwellings for which services are provided;

(2) are older or disabled; and

(3) are members of low-income families.

(c) Permitted restrictions Guidelines for the model program shall require that—

(1) assisted dwelling units be the primary residence of the homeowner for whom services are provided;

(2) preferences be provided for (A) very low-income families, and (B) individuals with intense need characterized by noneconomic factors such as physical and mental disabilities, language barriers, and cultural, social, or geographical isolation caused by racial or ethnic status that restricts the ability of an individual to perform normal daily tasks or that threatens the capacity of the individual to live independently;

(3) any fees charged be based on the income of the individual receiving the home repair services.

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 256](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s256), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4122](/us/stat/104/4122).)*
