---
title: "§ 2784. Notice-and-wait requirement applicable to certain third-party financing arrangements"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2784"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2784"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4804](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4804), as added [Pub. L. 109–364, div. C, title XXXI, § 3118](/us/pl/109/364/dC/tXXXI/s3118), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2509](/us/stat/120/2509).)"
---
# § 2784. Notice-and-wait requirement applicable to certain third-party financing arrangements

##### § 2784. Notice-and-wait requirement applicable to certain third-party financing arrangements

(a) Notice-and-wait requirement The Secretary of Energy may not enter into an arrangement described in subsection (b) until 30 days after the date on which the Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees in writing of the proposed arrangement.

(b) Covered arrangements

(1) In general Except as provided in paragraph (2), an arrangement referred to in subsection (a) is any alternative financing arrangement, third-party financing arrangement, public-private partnership, privatization arrangement, private capital arrangement, or other financing arrangement that—

(A) is entered into in connection with a project conducted using funds authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy to carry out programs necessary for national security; and

(B) involves a contractor or Federal agency obtaining and charging to the Department of Energy as an allowable cost under a contract the use of office space, facilities, or other real property assets with a value of at least $5,000,000.

(2) Exception An arrangement referred to in subsection (a) does not include an arrangement that—

(A) involves the Department of Energy or a contractor acquiring or entering into a capital lease for office space, facilities, or other real property assets; or

(B) is entered into in connection with a capital improvement project undertaken as part of an energy savings performance contract under [section 8287 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s8287).

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVIII, § 4804](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVIII/s4804), as added [Pub. L. 109–364, div. C, title XXXI, § 3118](/us/pl/109/364/dC/tXXXI/s3118), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2509](/us/stat/120/2509).)*
