---
title: "§ 7381c–1. Partnerships with historically Black colleges and universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, and tribal colleges"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7381c–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7381c–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–510, div. C, title XXXI, § 3167](/us/pl/101/510/dC/tXXXI/s3167), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title XI, § 1105(b)(2)](/us/pl/109/58/tXI/s1105/b/2), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 940](/us/stat/119/940); amended [Pub. L. 110–315, title IX, § 941(k)(2)(M)](/us/pl/110/315/tIX/s941/k/2/M), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3467](/us/stat/122/3467).)"
---
# § 7381c–1. Partnerships with historically Black colleges and universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, and tribal colleges

##### § 7381c–1. Partnerships with historically Black colleges and universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, and tribal colleges

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Hispanic-serving institution The term “Hispanic-serving institution” has the meaning given the term in [section 1101a(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1101a/a).

(2) Historically Black college or university The term “historically Black college or university” has the meaning given the term “part B institution” in [section 1061 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1061).

(3) National Laboratory The term “National Laboratory” has the meaning given the term in [section 15801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801).

(4) Science facility The term “science facility” has the meaning given the term “single-purpose research facility” in [section 16182 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16182).

(5) Tribal college The term “tribal college” has the meaning given the term “tribally controlled college or university” in [section 1801(a) of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s1801/a).

(b) Education partnership The Secretary shall require the director of each National Laboratory, and may require the head of any science facility, to increase the participation of historically Black colleges or universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, or tribal colleges in any activity that increases the capacity of the historically Black colleges or universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, or tribal colleges to train personnel in science or engineering.

(c) Activities An activity described in subsection (b) includes—

(1) collaborative research;

(2) equipment transfer;

(3) training activities carried out at a National Laboratory or science facility; and

(4) mentoring activities carried out at a National Laboratory or science facility.

(d) Report Not later than 2 years after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing the activities carried out under this section.

*([Pub. L. 101–510, div. C, title XXXI, § 3167](/us/pl/101/510/dC/tXXXI/s3167), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title XI, § 1105(b)(2)](/us/pl/109/58/tXI/s1105/b/2), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 940](/us/stat/119/940); amended [Pub. L. 110–315, title IX, § 941(k)(2)(M)](/us/pl/110/315/tIX/s941/k/2/M), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3467](/us/stat/122/3467).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 3167 of Pub. L. 101–510](/us/pl/101/510/s3167) was renumbered section 3168 and is classified to [section 7381d of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7381d).

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 110–315](/us/pl/110/315) made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 1801(a) of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s1801/a).
