---
title: "§ 423. Validity of allowance payments based on purported marriages"
identifier: "USC-T37-S423"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section423"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 479](/us/stat/76/479).)"
---
# § 423. Validity of allowance payments based on purported marriages

##### § 423. Validity of allowance payments based on purported marriages

A payment of an allowance, based on a purported marriage, that is made under this chapter, under the Career Compensation Act of 1949, or under the Pay Readjustment Act of 1942, before judicial annulment or termination of that marriage, is valid, if a court of competent jurisdiction adjudges or decrees that the marriage was entered into in good faith on the part of the spouse who is a member of a uniformed service or if, in the absence of such a judgment or decree, such a finding of good faith is made by the Secretary concerned or by a person designated by him to investigate the matter.

*([Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 479](/us/stat/76/479).)*

The words “or which hereafter may be” are omitted as surplusage. The words “a person designated by him to investigate the matter” are substituted for the words “such person as he may designate for the purpose”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 423 | 37:303. | Oct. 12, 1949, ch. 681, § 503, 63 Stat. 827. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Career Compensation Act of 1949, referred to in text, is [act Oct. 12, 1949, ch. 681](/us/act/1949-10-12/ch681), [63 Stat. 802](/us/stat/63/802), which was classified principally to chapter 4 (§ 231 et seq.) of former Title 37, Pay and Allowances, prior to the revision and reenactment of Title 37 by [Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 451](/us/stat/76/451). For distribution of sections of chapter 4 of former Title 37, see Table preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t37/s101).

The Pay Readjustment Act of 1942, referred to in text, is [act June 16, 1942, ch. 413](/us/act/1942-06-16/ch413), [56 Stat. 359](/us/stat/56/359), which was classified principally to chapter 2 (§ 101 et seq.) of former Title 37, Pay and Allowances, prior to the revision and reenactment of title 37 by [Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 451](/us/stat/76/451). For distribution of sections of chapter 2 of former title 37, see Table preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t37/s101).
