---
title: "§ 871. Attorney General"
identifier: "USC-T21-S871"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section871"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–513, title II, § 501](/us/pl/91/513/tII/s501), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/84/1270).)"
---
# § 871. Attorney General

##### § 871. Attorney General

(a) Delegation of functions The Attorney General may delegate any of his functions under this subchapter to any officer or employee of the Department of Justice.

(b) Rules and regulations The Attorney General may promulgate and enforce any rules, regulations, and procedures which he may deem necessary and appropriate for the efficient execution of his functions under this subchapter.

(c) Acceptance of devises, bequests, gifts, and donations The Attorney General may accept in the name of the Department of Justice any form of devise, bequest, gift, or donation where the donor intends to donate property for the purpose of preventing or controlling the abuse of controlled substances. He may take all appropriate steps to secure possession of such property and may sell, assign, transfer, or convey any such property other than moneys.

*([Pub. L. 91–513, title II, § 501](/us/pl/91/513/tII/s501), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/84/1270).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this title”, meaning title II of [Pub. L. 91–513](/us/pl/91/513), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1242](/us/stat/84/1242), and is popularly known as the “Controlled Substances Act”. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see second paragraph of Short Title note set out under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s801) and Tables.
