---
title: "§ 3621. Imprisonment of a convicted person"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3621"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3621"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2007](/us/stat/98/2007); amended [Pub. L. 101–647, title XXIX, § 2903](/us/pl/101/647/tXXIX/s2903), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4913](/us/stat/104/4913); [Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20401](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20401), title III, § 32001, Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1824](/us/stat/108/1824), 1896; [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1146](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1146), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3112](/us/stat/"
---
# § 3621. Imprisonment of a convicted person

##### § 3621. Imprisonment of a convicted person

(a) Commitment to Custody of Bureau of Prisons.— A person who has been sentenced to a term of imprisonment pursuant to the provisions of subchapter D of chapter 227 shall be committed to the custody of the Bureau of Prisons until the expiration of the term imposed, or until earlier released for satisfactory behavior pursuant to the provisions of section 3624.

(b) Place of Imprisonment.— The Bureau of Prisons shall designate the place of the prisoner’s imprisonment, and shall, subject to bed availability, the prisoner’s security designation, the prisoner’s programmatic needs, the prisoner’s mental and medical health needs, any request made by the prisoner related to faith-based needs, recommendations of the sentencing court, and other security concerns of the Bureau of Prisons, place the prisoner in a facility as close as practicable to the prisoner’s primary residence, and to the extent practicable, in a facility within 500 driving miles of that residence. The Bureau shall, subject to consideration of the factors described in the preceding sentence and the prisoner’s preference for staying at his or her current facility or being transferred, transfer prisoners to facilities that are closer to the prisoner’s primary residence even if the prisoner is already in a facility within 500 driving miles of that residence. The Bureau may designate any available penal or correctional facility that meets minimum standards of health and habitability established by the Bureau, whether maintained by the Federal Government or otherwise and whether within or without the judicial district in which the person was convicted, that the Bureau determines to be appropriate and suitable, considering—

In designating the place of imprisonment or making transfers under this subsection, there shall be no favoritism given to prisoners of high social or economic status. The Bureau may at any time, having regard for the same matters, direct the transfer of a prisoner from one penal or correctional facility to another. The Bureau shall make available appropriate substance abuse treatment for each prisoner the Bureau determines has a treatable condition of substance addiction or abuse. Any order, recommendation, or request by a sentencing court that a convicted person serve a term of imprisonment in a community corrections facility shall have no binding effect on the authority of the Bureau under this section to determine or change the place of imprisonment of that person. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a designation of a place of imprisonment under this subsection is not reviewable by any court.

(1) the resources of the facility contemplated;

(2) the nature and circumstances of the offense;

(3) the history and characteristics of the prisoner;

(4) any statement by the court that imposed the sentence—

(A) concerning the purposes for which the sentence to imprisonment was determined to be warranted; or

(B) recommending a type of penal or correctional facility as appropriate; and

(5) any pertinent policy statement issued by the Sentencing Commission pursuant to [section 994(a)(2) of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s994/a/2).

(c) Delivery of Order of Commitment.— When a prisoner, pursuant to a court order, is placed in the custody of a person in charge of a penal or correctional facility, a copy of the order shall be delivered to such person as evidence of this authority to hold the prisoner, and the original order, with the return endorsed thereon, shall be returned to the court that issued it.

(d) Delivery of Prisoner for Court Appearances.— The United States marshal shall, without charge, bring a prisoner into court or return him to a prison facility on order of a court of the United States or on written request of an attorney for the Government.

(e) Substance Abuse Treatment.—

(1) Phase-in.— In order to carry out the requirement of the last sentence of subsection (b) of this section, that every prisoner with a substance abuse problem have the opportunity to participate in appropriate substance abuse treatment, the Bureau of Prisons shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, provide residential substance abuse treatment (and make arrangements for appropriate aftercare)—

(A) for not less than 50 percent of eligible prisoners by the end of fiscal year 1995, with priority for such treatment accorded based on an eligible prisoner’s proximity to release date;

(B) for not less than 75 percent of eligible prisoners by the end of fiscal year 1996, with priority for such treatment accorded based on an eligible prisoner’s proximity to release date; and

(C) for all eligible prisoners by the end of fiscal year 1997 and thereafter, with priority for such treatment accorded based on an eligible prisoner’s proximity to release date.

(2) Incentive for prisoners’ successful completion of treatment program.—

(A) Generally.— Any prisoner who, in the judgment of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons, has successfully completed a program of residential substance abuse treatment provided under paragraph (1) of this subsection, shall remain in the custody of the Bureau under such conditions as the Bureau deems appropriate. If the conditions of confinement are different from those the prisoner would have experienced absent the successful completion of the treatment, the Bureau shall periodically test the prisoner for substance abuse and discontinue such conditions on determining that substance abuse has recurred.

(B) Period of custody.— The period a prisoner convicted of a nonviolent offense remains in custody after successfully completing a treatment program may be reduced by the Bureau of Prisons, but such reduction may not be more than one year from the term the prisoner must otherwise serve.

(3) Report.— The Bureau of Prisons shall transmit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of Representatives on January 1, 1995, and on January 1 of each year thereafter, a report. Such report shall contain—

(A) a detailed quantitative and qualitative description of each substance abuse treatment program, residential or not, operated by the Bureau;

(B) a full explanation of how eligibility for such programs is determined, with complete information on what proportion of prisoners with substance abuse problems are eligible; and

(C) a complete statement of to what extent the Bureau has achieved compliance with the requirements of this title.

(4) Authorization of appropriations.— There are authorized to carry out this subsection such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011.

(5) Definitions.— As used in this subsection—

(A) the term “residential substance abuse treatment” means a course of individual and group activities and treatment, lasting at least 6 months, in residential treatment facilities set apart from the general prison population (which may include the use of pharmocotherapies,11 So in original. Probably should be “pharmacotherapies,”. where appropriate, that may extend beyond the 6-month period);

(B) the term “eligible prisoner” means a prisoner who is—

(i) determined by the Bureau of Prisons to have a substance abuse problem; and

(ii) willing to participate in a residential substance abuse treatment program; and

(C) the term “aftercare” means placement, case management and monitoring of the participant in a community-based substance abuse treatment program when the participant leaves the custody of the Bureau of Prisons.

(6) Coordination of federal assistance.— The Bureau of Prisons shall consult with the Department of Health and Human Services concerning substance abuse treatment and related services and the incorporation of applicable components of existing comprehensive approaches including relapse prevention and aftercare services.

(7) Eligibility of primary caretaker parents and pregnant women.— The Director of the Bureau of Prisons may not prohibit an eligible prisoner who is a primary caretaker parent (as defined in section 4051) or pregnant from participating in a program of residential substance abuse treatment provided under paragraph (1) on the basis of a failure by the eligible prisoner, before being committed to the custody of the Bureau of Prisons, to disclose to any official of the Bureau of Prisons that the prisoner had a substance abuse problem on or before the date on which the eligible prisoner was committed to the custody of the Bureau of Prisons.

(f) Sex Offender Management.—

(1) In general.— The Bureau of Prisons shall make available appropriate treatment to sex offenders who are in need of and suitable for treatment, as follows:

(A) Sex offender management programs.— The Bureau of Prisons shall establish non-residential sex offender management programs to provide appropriate treatment, monitoring, and supervision of sex offenders and to provide aftercare during pre-release custody.

(B) Residential sex offender treatment programs.— The Bureau of Prisons shall establish residential sex offender treatment programs to provide treatment to sex offenders who volunteer for such programs and are deemed by the Bureau of Prisons to be in need of and suitable for residential treatment.

(2) Regions.— At least 1 sex offender management program under paragraph (1)(A), and at least one residential sex offender treatment program under paragraph (1)(B), shall be established in each region within the Bureau of Prisons.

(3) Authorization of appropriations.— There are authorized to be appropriated to the Bureau of Prisons for each fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.

(g) Partnerships To Expand Access to Reentry Programs Proven To Reduce Recidivism.—

(1) Definition.— The term “demonstrated to reduce recidivism” means that the Director of Bureau of Prisons has determined that appropriate research has been conducted and has validated the effectiveness of the type of program on recidivism.

(2) Eligibility for recidivism reduction partnership.— A faith-based or community-based nonprofit organization that provides mentoring or other programs that have been demonstrated to reduce recidivism is eligible to enter into a recidivism reduction partnership with a prison or community-based facility operated by the Bureau of Prisons.

(3) Recidivism reduction partnerships.— The Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall develop policies to require wardens of prisons and community-based facilities to enter into recidivism reduction partnerships with faith-based and community-based nonprofit organizations that are willing to provide, on a volunteer basis, programs described in paragraph (2).

(4) Reporting requirement.— The Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall submit to Congress an annual report on the last day of each fiscal year that—

(A) details, for each prison and community-based facility for the fiscal year just ended—

(i) the number of recidivism reduction partnerships under this section that were in effect;

(ii) the number of volunteers that provided recidivism reduction programming; and

(iii) the number of recidivism reduction programming hours provided; and

(B) explains any disparities between facilities in the numbers reported under subparagraph (A).

(h) Implementation of Risk and Needs Assessment System.—

(1) In general.— Not later than 180 days after the Attorney General completes and releases the risk and needs assessment system (referred to in this subsection as the “System”) developed under subchapter D, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall, in accordance with that subchapter—

(A) implement and complete the initial intake risk and needs assessment for each prisoner (including for each prisoner who was a prisoner prior to the effective date of this subsection), regardless of the prisoner’s length of imposed term of imprisonment, and begin to assign prisoners to appropriate evidence-based recidivism reduction programs based on that determination;

(B) begin to expand the effective evidence-based recidivism reduction programs and productive activities it offers and add any new evidence-based recidivism reduction programs and productive activities necessary to effectively implement the System; and

(C) begin to implement the other risk and needs assessment tools necessary to effectively implement the System over time, while prisoners are participating in and completing the effective evidence-based recidivism reduction programs and productive activities.

(2) Phase-in.— In order to carry out paragraph (1), so that every prisoner has the opportunity to participate in and complete the type and amount of evidence-based recidivism reduction programs or productive activities they need, and be reassessed for recidivism risk as necessary to effectively implement the System, the Bureau of Prisons shall—

(A) provide such evidence-based recidivism reduction programs and productive activities for all prisoners before the date that is 2 years after the date on which the Bureau of Prisons completes a risk and needs assessment for each prisoner under paragraph (1)(A); and

(B) develop and validate the risk and needs assessment tool to be used in the reassessments of risk of recidivism, while prisoners are participating in and completing evidence-based recidivism reduction programs and productive activities.

(3) Priority during phase-in.— During the 2-year period described in paragraph (2)(A), the priority for such programs and activities shall be accorded based on a prisoner’s proximity to release date.

(4) Preliminary expansion of evidence-based recidivism reduction programs and authority to use incentives.— Beginning on the date of enactment of this subsection, the Bureau of Prisons may begin to expand any evidence-based recidivism reduction programs and productive activities that exist at a prison as of such date, and may offer to prisoners who successfully participate in such programs and activities the incentives and rewards described in subchapter D.

(5) Recidivism reduction partnerships.— In order to expand evidence-based recidivism reduction programs and productive activities, the Attorney General shall develop policies for the warden of each prison of the Bureau of Prisons to enter into partnerships, subject to the availability of appropriations, with any of the following:

(A) Nonprofit and other private organizations, including faith-based, art, and community-based organizations that will deliver recidivism reduction programming on a paid or volunteer basis.

(B) Institutions of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001](/us/usc/t20/s1001))) that will deliver instruction on a paid or volunteer basis.

(C) Private entities that will—

(i) deliver vocational training and certifications;

(ii) provide equipment to facilitate vocational training or employment opportunities for prisoners;

(iii) employ prisoners; or

(iv) assist prisoners in prerelease custody or supervised release in finding employment.

(D) Industry-sponsored organizations that will deliver workforce development and training, on a paid or volunteer basis.

(6) Requirement to provide programs to all prisoners; priority.— The Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall provide all prisoners with the opportunity to actively participate in evidence-based recidivism reduction programs or productive activities, according to their specific criminogenic needs, throughout their entire term of incarceration. Priority for participation in recidivism reduction programs shall be given to medium-risk and high-risk prisoners, with access to productive activities given to minimum-risk and low-risk prisoners.

(7) Definitions.— The terms in this subsection have the meaning given those terms in section 3635.

(i) Continued Access to Medical Care.—

(1) In general.— In order to ensure a minimum standard of health and habitability, the Bureau of Prisons should ensure that each prisoner in a community confinement facility has access to necessary medical care, mental health care, and medicine through partnerships with local health service providers and transition planning.

(2) Definition.— In this subsection, the term “community confinement” has the meaning given that term in the application notes under section 5F1.1 of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines Manual, as in effect on the date of the enactment of the Second Chance Act of 2007.

*(Added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2007](/us/stat/98/2007); amended [Pub. L. 101–647, title XXIX, § 2903](/us/pl/101/647/tXXIX/s2903), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4913](/us/stat/104/4913); [Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20401](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20401), title III, § 32001, Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1824](/us/stat/108/1824), 1896; [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1146](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1146), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3112](/us/stat/119/3112); [Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 622](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s622), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 634](/us/stat/120/634); [Pub. L. 110–199, title II](/us/pl/110/199/tII), §§ 231(f), 251(b), 252, Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 687](/us/stat/122/687), 693; [Pub. L. 115–391, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/115/391/tI/s102/a), title V, § 504(f)(1), title VI, § 601, Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5208](/us/stat/132/5208), 5234, 5237; [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title X, § 1001(c)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tX/s1001/c), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 914](/us/stat/136/914).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The effective date of this subsection, referred to in subsec. (h)(1)(A), probably means the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–391](/us/pl/115/391), which added subsec. (h) of this section and was approved Dec. 21, 2018.

The date of enactment of this subsection, referred to in subsec. (h)(4), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–391](/us/pl/115/391), which was approved Dec. 21, 2018.

The date of the enactment of the Second Chance Act of 2007, referred to in subsec. (i)(2), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199), which was approved Apr. 9, 2008.

#### Prior Provisions

For a prior section 3621, applicable to offenses committed prior to Nov. 1, 1987, see note set out preceding [section 3601 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3601).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (e)(7). [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) added par. (7).

2018—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 601](/us/pl/115/391/s601), substituted in introductory provisions “shall designate the place of the prisoner’s imprisonment, and shall, subject to bed availability, the prisoner’s security designation, the prisoner’s programmatic needs, the prisoner’s mental and medical health needs, any request made by the prisoner related to faith-based needs, recommendations of the sentencing court, and other security concerns of the Bureau of Prisons, place the prisoner in a facility as close as practicable to the prisoner’s primary residence, and to the extent practicable, in a facility within 500 driving miles of that residence. The Bureau shall, subject to consideration of the factors described in the preceding sentence and the prisoner’s preference for staying at his or her current facility or being transferred, transfer prisoners to facilities that are closer to the prisoner’s primary residence even if the prisoner is already in a facility within 500 driving miles of that residence.” for “shall designate the place of the prisoner’s imprisonment.” and inserted at end of concluding provisions “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a designation of a place of imprisonment under this subsection is not reviewable by any court.”

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 504(f)(1)](/us/pl/115/391/s504/f/1), added subsec. (g) and redesignated former subsec. (g) as (i).

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 102(a)](/us/pl/115/391/s102/a), added subsec. (h).

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 115–391, § 504(f)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/391/s504/f/1/A), redesignated subsec. (g) as (i).

2008—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–199, § 251(b)](/us/pl/110/199/s251/b), inserted “Any order, recommendation, or request by a sentencing court that a convicted person serve a term of imprisonment in a community corrections facility shall have no binding effect on the authority of the Bureau under this section to determine or change the place of imprisonment of that person.” at end of concluding provisions.

Subsec. (e)(5)(A). [Pub. L. 110–199, § 252](/us/pl/110/199/s252), substituted “means a course of individual and group activities and treatment, lasting at least 6 months, in residential treatment facilities set apart from the general prison population (which may include the use of pharmocotherapies, where appropriate, that may extend beyond the 6-month period);” for “means a course of individual and group activities, lasting between 6 and 12 months, in residential treatment facilities set apart from the general prison population—

“(i) directed at the substance abuse problems of the prisoner;

“(ii) intended to develop the prisoner’s cognitive, behavioral, social, vocational, and other skills so as to solve the prisoner’s substance abuse and related problems; and

“(iii) which may include the use of pharmacoptherapies, if appropriate, that may extend beyond the treatment period;”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 110–199, § 231(f)](/us/pl/110/199/s231/f), added subsec. (g).

2006—Subsec. (e)(4). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1146(1)](/us/pl/109/162/s1146/1), added par. (4) and struck out heading and text of former par. (4). Text read as follows: “There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection—

“(A) $13,500,000 for fiscal year 1996;

“(B) $18,900,000 for fiscal year 1997;

“(C) $25,200,000 for fiscal year 1998;

“(D) $27,000,000 for fiscal year 1999; and

“(E) $27,900,000 for fiscal year 2000.”

Subsec. (e)(5)(A)(iii). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1146(2)](/us/pl/109/162/s1146/2), added cl. (iii).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248) added subsec. (f).

1994—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 32001(1)](/us/pl/103/322/s32001/1), struck out “, to the extent practicable,” after “The Bureau shall” in concluding provisions.

[Pub. L. 103–322, § 20401](/us/pl/103/322/s20401), inserted “In designating the place of imprisonment or making transfers under this subsection, there shall be no favoritism given to prisoners of high social or economic status.” after subsec. (b)(5).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 32001(2)](/us/pl/103/322/s32001/2), added subsec. (e).

1990—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647) inserted at end “The Bureau shall, to the extent practicable, make available appropriate substance abuse treatment for each prisoner the Bureau determines has a treatable condition of substance addiction or abuse.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–391, title V, § 504(f)(2)](/us/pl/115/391/tV/s504/f/2), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5234](/us/stat/132/5234), provided that: “The amendments made by paragraph (1) [amending this section] shall take effect 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 21, 2018].”

#### Effective Date

Section effective Nov. 1, 1987, and applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of this section, see [section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s235/a/1), set out as a note under [section 3551 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3551).

#### Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 115–391, title I, § 105](/us/pl/115/391/tI/s105), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5214](/us/stat/132/5214), provided that: “Nothing in this Act [see Tables for classification], or the amendments made by this Act, may be construed to provide authority to place a prisoner in prerelease custody or supervised release who is serving a term of imprisonment pursuant to a conviction for an offense under the laws of one of the 50 States, or of a territory or possession of the United States or to amend or affect the enforcement of the immigration laws, as defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C. 1101](/us/usc/t8/s1101)).”

#### Construction of 2008 Amendment

For construction of amendments by [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) and requirements for grants made under such amendments, see [section 60504 of Title 34](/us/usc/t34/s60504), Crime Control and Law Enforcement.

#### Implementation Date of 2022 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title X, § 1001(d)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tX/s1001/d), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 914](/us/stat/136/914), provided that: “(1) In general.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 15, 2022], the Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall implement this section [see Short Title of 2022 Amendment note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1)] and the amendments made by this section. “(2) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a progress report on the implementation of this section and the amendments made by this section.”

#### Bureau of Prisons

[Pub. L. 116–136, div. B, title II, § 12003](/us/pl/116/136/dB/tII/s12003), Mar. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 515](/us/stat/134/515), provided that: “(a) Definitions.—In this section—“(1) the term ‘Bureau’ means the Bureau of Prisons; “(2) the term ‘covered emergency period’ means the period beginning on the date on which the President declared a national emergency under the National Emergencies Act ([50 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t50/s1601) et seq.) with respect to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19) [declaration issued Mar. 13, 2020, beginning Mar. 1, 2020, see 85 F.R. 15337] and ending on the date that is 30 days after the date on which the national emergency declaration terminates; and “(3) the term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Health and Human Services. “(b) Supply of Personal Protective Equipment and Test Kits to Bureau of Prisons; Home Confinement Authority.—“(1) Personal protective equipment and test kits.—“(A) Findings.—Congress finds the following:“(i) There is an urgent need for personal protective equipment and test kits to the Bureau based on the density of the inmate population, the high traffic, the high volume of inmates, the high rate of turnover of inmates and personnel, and the number of high-security areas, within the facilities of the Bureau. “(ii) The inability of the Bureau to secure the purchase of infectious disease personal protective equipment and related supplies now and in the future is a vulnerability. “(iii) The Bureau is currently competing in and engaging the same landscape of vendors as all other Federal agencies and private entities. “(iv) The ability of the Bureau to purchase needed equipment and supplies is currently subject to an individual manufacturer’s specific recognition of the Bureau as a priority and subsequent allocation of the inventory of the manufacturer to the Bureau. “(B) Consideration.—The Secretary shall appropriately consider, relative to other priorities of the Department of Health and Human Services for high-risk and high-need populations, the distribution of infectious disease personal protective equipment and COVID–19 test kits to the Bureau for use by inmates and personnel of the Bureau. “(2) Home confinement authority.—During the covered emergency period, if the Attorney General finds that emergency conditions will materially affect the functioning of the Bureau, the Director of the Bureau may lengthen the maximum amount of time for which the Director is authorized to place a prisoner in home confinement under the first sentence of [section 3624(c)(2) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3624/c/2), United States Code, as the Director determines appropriate. “(c) Video Visitation.—“(1) In general.—During the covered emergency period, if the Attorney General finds that emergency conditions will materially affect the functioning of the Bureau, the Director of the Bureau shall promulgate rules regarding the ability of inmates to conduct visitation through video teleconferencing and telephonically, free of charge to inmates, during the covered emergency period. “(2) Exemption from notice-and-comment rulemaking requirements.—[Section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553), United States Code, shall not apply to the promulgation of rules under paragraph (1) of this subsection. “(d) Emergency Requirement.—The amount provided by this section is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 [[2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)](/us/usc/t2/s901/b/2/A/i)].”

#### GAO Report

[Pub. L. 115–391, title I, § 103](/us/pl/115/391/tI/s103), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5213](/us/stat/132/5213), provided that: “Not later than 2 years after the Director of the Bureau of Prisons implements the risk and needs assessment system under [section 3621 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3621), United States Code, and every 2 years thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct an audit of the use of the risk and needs assessment system at Bureau of Prisons facilities. The audit shall include analysis of the following: “(1) Whether inmates are being assessed under the risk and needs assessment system with the frequency required under such [section 3621 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3621), United States Code. “(2) Whether the Bureau of Prisons is able to offer recidivism reduction programs and productive activities (as such terms are defined in [section 3635 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3635), United States Code, as added by section 101(a) of this Act). “(3) Whether the Bureau of Prisons is offering the type, amount, and intensity of recidivism reduction programs and productive activities for prisoners to earn the maximum amount of time credits for which they are eligible. “(4) Whether the Attorney General is carrying out the duties under [section 3631(b) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3631/b), United States Code, as added by section 101(a) of this Act. “(5) Whether officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons are receiving the training described in [section 3632(f) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3632/f), United States Code, as added by section 101(a) of this Act. “(6) Whether the Bureau of Prisons offers work assignments to all prisoners who might benefit from such an assignment. “(7) Whether the Bureau of Prisons transfers prisoners to prerelease custody or supervised release as soon as they are eligible for such a transfer under [section 3624(g) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3624/g), United States Code, as added by section 102(b) of this Act. “(8) The rates of recidivism among similarly classified prisoners to identify any unwarranted disparities, including disparities among similarly classified prisoners of different demographic groups, in such rates.”

#### Faith-Based Considerations

[Pub. L. 115–391, title I, § 106](/us/pl/115/391/tI/s106), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5214](/us/stat/132/5214), provided that: “(a) In General.—In considering any program, treatment, regimen, group, company, charity, person, or entity of any kind under any provision of this Act [see Tables for classification], or the amendments made by this Act, the fact that it may be or is faith-based may not be a basis for any discrimination against it in any manner or for any purpose. “(b) Eligibility for Earned Time Credit.—Participation in a faith-based program, treatment, or regimen may qualify a prisoner for earned time credit under subchapter D of chapter 229 of title 18, United States Code, as added by section 101(a) of this Act, however, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall ensure that non-faith-based programs that qualify for earned time credit are offered at each Bureau of Prisons facility in addition to any such faith-based programs. “(c) Limitation on Activities.—A group, company, charity, person, or entity may not engage in explicitly religious activities using direct financial assistance made available under this title [enacting subchapter D of this chapter, amending this section and [section 3624 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3624), and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 3624 and 3631 of this title] or the amendments made by this title. “(d) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this Act, or the amendments made by this Act, may be construed to amend any requirement under Federal law or the Constitution of the United States regarding funding for faith-based programs or activities.”

#### Evidence-Based Treatment for Opioid and Heroin Abuse

[Pub. L. 115–391, title VI, § 607](/us/pl/115/391/tVI/s607), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5244](/us/stat/132/5244), provided that: “(a) Report on Evidence-based Treatment for Opioid and Heroin Abuse.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 21, 2018], the Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall submit to the Committees on the Judiciary and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and of the House of Representatives a report assessing the availability of and the capacity of the Bureau of Prisons to treat heroin and opioid abuse through evidence-based programs, including medication-assisted treatment where appropriate. In preparing the report, the Director shall consider medication-assisted treatment as a strategy to assist in treatment where appropriate and not as a replacement for holistic and other drug-free approaches. The report shall include a description of plans to expand access to evidence-based treatment for heroin and opioid abuse for prisoners, including access to medication-assisted treatment in appropriate cases. Following submission, the Director shall take steps to implement these plans. “(b) Report on the Availability of Medication-Assisted Treatment for Opioid and Heroin Abuse, and Implementation Thereof.—Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts shall submit to the Committees on the Judiciary and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and of the House of Representatives a report assessing the availability of and capacity for the provision of medication-assisted treatment for opioid and heroin abuse by treatment service providers serving prisoners who are serving a term of supervised release, and including a description of plans to expand access to medication-assisted treatment for heroin and opioid abuse whenever appropriate among prisoners under supervised release. Following submission, the Director will take steps to implement these plans.”
