---
title: "§ 1397n–6. Commission on Social Impact Partnerships"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1397n–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1397n–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2057, as added [Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title VIII, § 50802(2)](/us/pl/115/123/dE/tVIII/s50802/2), Feb. 9, 2018, [132 Stat. 279](/us/stat/132/279).)"
---
# § 1397n–6. Commission on Social Impact Partnerships

##### § 1397n–6. Commission on Social Impact Partnerships

(a) Establishment There is established the Commission on Social Impact Partnerships (in this section referred to as the “Commission”).

(b) Duties The duties of the Commission shall be to—

(1) assist the Secretary and the Federal Interagency Council on Social Impact Partnerships in reviewing applications for funding under this division;

(2) make recommendations to the Secretary and the Federal Interagency Council on Social Impact Partnerships regarding the funding of social impact partnership agreements and feasibility studies; and

(3) provide other assistance and information as requested by the Secretary or the Federal Interagency Council on Social Impact Partnerships.

(c) Composition The Commission shall be composed of nine members, of whom—

(1) one shall be appointed by the President, who will serve as the Chair of the Commission;

(2) one shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate;

(3) one shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the Senate;

(4) one shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;

(5) one shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives;

(6) one shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance of the Senate;

(7) one shall be appointed by the ranking member of the Committee on Finance of the Senate;

(8) one member shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives; and

(9) one shall be appointed by the ranking member of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.

(d) Qualifications of Commission members The members of the Commission shall—

(1) be experienced in finance, economics, pay for performance, or program evaluation;

(2) have relevant professional or personal experience in a field related to one or more of the outcomes listed in this division; or

(3) be qualified to review applications for social impact partnership projects to determine whether the proposed metrics and evaluation methodologies are appropriately rigorous and reliant upon independent data and evidence-based research.

(e) Timing of appointments The appointments of the members of the Commission shall be made not later than 120 days after February 9, 2018, or, in the event of a vacancy, not later than 90 days after the date the vacancy arises. If a member of Congress fails to appoint a member by that date, the President may select a member of the President’s choice on behalf of the member of Congress. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if not all appointments have been made to the Commission as of that date, the Commission may operate with no fewer than five members until all appointments have been made.

(f) Term of appointments

(1) In general The members appointed under subsection (c) shall serve as follows:

(A) Three members shall serve for 2 years.

(B) Three members shall serve for 3 years.

(C) Three members (one of which shall be Chair of the Commission appointed by the President) shall serve for 4 years.

(2) Assignment of terms The Commission shall designate the term length that each member appointed under subsection (c) shall serve by unanimous agreement. In the event that unanimous agreement cannot be reached, term lengths shall be assigned to the members by a random process.

(g) Vacancies Subject to subsection (e), in the event of a vacancy in the Commission, whether due to the resignation of a member, the expiration of a member’s term, or any other reason, the vacancy shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made and shall not affect the powers of the Commission.

(h) Appointment power Members of the Commission appointed under subsection (c) shall not be subject to confirmation by the Senate.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XX, § 2057, as added [Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title VIII, § 50802(2)](/us/pl/115/123/dE/tVIII/s50802/2), Feb. 9, 2018, [132 Stat. 279](/us/stat/132/279).)*
