---
title: "§ 683. Areas set aside for protection of game and fish; unlawfully taking game or fish"
identifier: "USC-T16-S683"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section683"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Aug. 11, 1916, ch. 313](/us/act/1916-08-11/ch313), [39 Stat. 476](/us/stat/39/476); [June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 10](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645/s10), [62 Stat. 860](/us/stat/62/860).)"
---
# § 683. Areas set aside for protection of game and fish; unlawfully taking game or fish

##### § 683. Areas set aside for protection of game and fish; unlawfully taking game or fish

The President of the United States is authorized to designate such areas on any lands which have been, or which may hereafter be, purchased by the United States under the provisions of the Act of March first, nineteen hundred and eleven, and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof, as should, in his opinion, be set aside for the protection of game animals, birds, or fish; and, except under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of Agriculture may from time to time prescribe, it shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, catch, trap, willfully disturb or kill any kind of game animal, game or nongame bird, or fish, or take the eggs of any such bird on any lands so set aside, or in or on the waters thereof.

*([Aug. 11, 1916, ch. 313](/us/act/1916-08-11/ch313), [39 Stat. 476](/us/stat/39/476); [June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 10](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645/s10), [62 Stat. 860](/us/stat/62/860).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of March first, nineteen hundred and eleven, referred to in text, was in the original “Act of March first, nineteen hundred and eleven (Thirty-six Statutes at Large, page nine hundred and sixty-one), entitled ‘An Act to enable any State to cooperate with any other State or States, or with the United States, for the protection of watersheds of navigable streams, and to appoint a commission for the acquisition of lands for the purpose of conserving the navigability of navigable streams’ ”, which is popularly known as the Weeks Law, and which enacted former sections 513 and 514 and sections 515 to 519, 521, 552, and 563 of this title and amended sections 480 and 500 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 552 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s552) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1948—Act June 25, 1948, struck out penal provisions (see [section 41 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s41), Crimes and Criminal Procedure), and inserted provision relating to the unlawfulness in hunting, catching, etc. game animals, etc. under rules and regulations of Secretary of Agriculture.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1948 Amendment

Section 20 of act June 25, 1948, provided that the amendment made by that act is effective Sept. 1, 1948.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Presidential Designation

The following areas have been designated by the President:

Big Levels Game Refuge. Proclamation of July 6, 1935 ([49 Stat. 3448](/us/stat/49/3448)).

Cherokee National Game Refuges. Proclamation of Aug. 5, 1924 ([43 Stat. 1964](/us/stat/43/1964)), and Oct. 22, 1934 ([49 Stat. 3423](/us/stat/49/3423)).

National Catahoula Wildlife Management Preserve. Proclamation of Sept. 27, 1941 ([55 Stat. 1689](/us/stat/55/1689)).

National Red Dirt Wildlife Management Preserve. Proclamation of Sept. 27, 1941 ([55 Stat. 1688](/us/stat/55/1688)).

Noontootly National Game Refuge. Proclamation of July 6, 1938 ([52 Stat. 1549](/us/stat/52/1549)).

Pisgah National Game Preserve. Proclamation of Oct. 17, 1916 ([39 Stat. 1811](/us/stat/39/1811)).
