---
title: "§ 981. Indemnity to States on sale of lands"
identifier: "USC-T43-S981"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section981"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 2482; 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 981. Indemnity to States on sale of lands

##### § 981. Indemnity to States on sale of lands

Upon proof by the authorized agent of the State, before the Secretary of the Interior or such officer as he may designate, that any of the lands purchased by any person from the United States, prior to March 2, 1855, were “swamp lands”, within the true intent and meaning of the Act entitled “An Act to enable the State of Arkansas and other States to reclaim the swamp lands within their limits”, approved September 28, 1850, the purchase money shall be paid over to the State wherein said land is situate; and when the lands have been located by warrant or scrip, the said State shall be authorized to locate a like quantity of any of the public lands subject to entry, at $1.25 per acre, or less, and patents shall issue therefor. The decision of the Secretary or such officer shall be first approved by the Secretary of the Interior.

*(R.S. § 2482; 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act approved September 28, 1850, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 28, 1850, ch. 84](/us/act/1850-09-28/ch84), [9 Stat. 519](/us/stat/9/519), which is not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

R.S. § 2482 derived from [act Mar. 2, 1855, ch. 147, § 2](/us/act/1855-03-02/ch147/s2), [10 Stat. 634](/us/stat/10/634), 635.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

“Secretary of the Interior or such officer as he may designate” substituted for “Commissioner of the General Land Office” on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946, which abolished General Land Office and Commissioner thereof and transferred functions of General Land Office to a new agency in Department of the Interior to be known as Bureau of Land Management. See section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946, set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1).
