---
title: "§ 20108. Crime victims notification grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1404E](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1404E), as added [Pub. L. 108–405, title I, § 103(c)](/us/pl/108/405/tI/s103/c), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2265](/us/stat/118/2265).)"
---
# § 20108. Crime victims notification grants

##### § 20108. Crime victims notification grants

(a) In general The Director may make grants as provided in [section 20103(c)(1)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20103/c/1/A) to State, tribal, and local prosecutors’ offices, law enforcement agencies, courts, jails, and correctional institutions, and to qualified public or private entities, to develop and implement state-of-the-art systems for notifying victims of crime of important dates and developments relating to the criminal proceedings at issue in a timely and efficient manner, provided that the jurisdiction has laws substantially equivalent to the provisions of chapter 237 of title 18.

(b) Integration of systems Systems developed and implemented under this section may be integrated with existing case management systems operated by the recipient of the grant.

(c) Authorization of appropriations In addition to funds made available under [section 20101(d) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s20101/d), there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—

(1) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2005; and

(2) $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009.

(d) False Claims Act Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts collected pursuant to sections 3729 through 3731 of title 31 (commonly known as the “False Claims Act”) may be used for grants under this section, subject to appropriation.

*([Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 1404E](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s1404E), as added [Pub. L. 108–405, title I, § 103(c)](/us/pl/108/405/tI/s103/c), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2265](/us/stat/118/2265).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 10603e of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10603e), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
