---
title: "§ 952. Training and education"
identifier: "USC-T30-S952"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section952"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–173, title V, § 502](/us/pl/91/173/tV/s502), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 800](/us/stat/83/800); [Pub. L. 95–164, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/95/164/tIII/s303/b), (h), Nov. 9, 1977, [91 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/91/1320), 1321; [Pub. L. 96–38, title I, § 100](/us/pl/96/38/tI/s100), July 25, 1979, [93 Stat. 111](/us/stat/93/111).)"
---
# § 952. Training and education

##### § 952. Training and education

(a) Programs for operators, agents, and miners The Secretary shall expand programs for the education and training of operators and agents thereof, and miners in—

(1) the recognition, avoidance, and prevention of accidents or unsafe or unhealthful working conditions in coal or other mines; and

(2) in the use of flame safety lamps, permissible methane detectors, and other means approved by the Secretary for detecting methane and other explosive gases accurately.

(b) Technical assistance to operators The Secretary shall, to the greatest extent possible, provide technical assistance to operators in meeting the requirements of this chapter and in further improving the health and safety conditions and practices in coal or other mines.

(c) National Mine Health and Safety Academy

(1) The National Mine Health and Safety Academy shall be maintained as an agency of the Department of Labor. The Academy shall be responsible for the training of mine safety and health inspectors under [section 954 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s954), and in training of technical support personnel of the Mine Safety and Health Administration established under [section 557a of title 29](/us/usc/t29/s557a); and for any other training programs for mine inspectors, mining personnel, or other persons as the Secretary of Labor shall designate. In performing this function, the Academy shall have the authority to enter into cooperative educational and training agreements with educational institutions, State governments, labor organizations, and mine operators and related industries. Such training shall be conducted by the Academy in accordance with curriculum needs and assignment of instructional personnel established by the user.

(2) Repealed. [Pub. L. 96–38, title I, § 100](/us/pl/96/38/tI/s100), July 25, 1979, [93 Stat. 111](/us/stat/93/111).

(3) The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct his safety research responsibilities under [section 951 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s951) in coordination with the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretaries of Labor and the Interior are authorized to enter into contractual or other agreements for the performance of such safety related research.

*([Pub. L. 91–173, title V, § 502](/us/pl/91/173/tV/s502), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 800](/us/stat/83/800); [Pub. L. 95–164, title III, § 303(b)](/us/pl/95/164/tIII/s303/b), (h), Nov. 9, 1977, [91 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/91/1320), 1321; [Pub. L. 96–38, title I, § 100](/us/pl/96/38/tI/s100), July 25, 1979, [93 Stat. 111](/us/stat/93/111).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–173](/us/pl/91/173), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 742](/us/stat/83/742), known as the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s801) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1979—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 96–38](/us/pl/96/38) substituted “Department of Labor” for “Department of the Interior” and “Secretary of Labor” for “Secretaries of Labor and the Interior”.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 96–38](/us/pl/96/38) struck out par. (2) which directed that the National Mine Health and Safety Academy use the facilities and personnel of the Department of the Interior and that the Secretary of the Interior appoint or assign to the Academy necessary officers and employees.

1977—Subsecs. (a), (b). [Pub. L. 95–164, § 303(b)](/us/pl/95/164/s303/b), inserted references to mines other than coal mines.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 95–164, § 303(h)](/us/pl/95/164/s303/h), added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–164](/us/pl/95/164) effective 120 days after Nov. 9, 1977, except as otherwise provided, see [section 307 of Pub. L. 95–164](/us/pl/95/164/s307), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s801).
