---
title: "§ 15103. National Merchant Marine Personnel Advisory Committee"
identifier: "USC-T46-S15103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section15103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4282](/us/stat/132/4282).)"
---
# § 15103. National Merchant Marine Personnel Advisory Committee

##### § 15103. National Merchant Marine Personnel Advisory Committee

(a) Establishment.— There is established a National Merchant Marine Personnel Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(b) Function.— The Committee shall advise the Secretary on matters relating to personnel in the United States merchant marine, including the training, qualifications, certification, documentation, and fitness of mariners.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The Committee shall consist of 19 members appointed by the Secretary in accordance with this section and section 15109 of this chapter.

(2) Expertise.— Each member of the Committee shall have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters relating to the function of the Committee.

(3) Representation.— Members of the Committee shall be appointed as follows:

(A) 9 members shall represent mariners and, of the 9—

(i) each shall—

(I) be a citizen of the United States; and

(II) hold an active license or certificate issued under chapter 71 of this title or a merchant mariner document issued under chapter 73 of this title;

(ii) 3 shall be deck officers who represent merchant marine deck officers and, of the 3—

(I) 2 shall be licensed for oceans any gross tons;

(II) 1 shall be licensed for inland river route with a limited or unlimited tonnage;

(III) 2 shall have a master’s license or a master of towing vessels license;

(IV) 1 shall have significant tanker experience; and

(V) to the extent practicable—

(aa) 1 shall represent labor; and

(bb) 1 shall represent management;

(iii) 3 shall be engineering officers who represent merchant marine engineering officers and, of the 3—

(I) 2 shall be licensed as chief engineer any horsepower;

(II) 1 shall be licensed as either a limited chief engineer or a designated duty engineer; and

(III) to the extent practicable—

(aa) 1 shall represent labor; and

(bb) 1 shall represent management;

(iv) 2 shall be unlicensed seamen who represent merchant marine unlicensed seaman and, of the 2—

(I) 1 shall represent able-bodied seamen; and

(II) 1 shall represent qualified members of the engine department; and

(v) 1 shall be a pilot who represents merchant marine pilots.

(B) 6 members shall represent marine educators and, of the 6—

(i) 3 shall be marine educators who represent maritime academies and, of the 3—

(I) 2 shall represent State maritime academies (and are jointly recommended by such academies); and

(II) 1 shall represent either State maritime academies or the United States Merchant Marine Academy; and

(ii) 3 shall be marine educators who represent other maritime training institutions and, of the 3, 1 shall represent the small vessel industry.

(C) 2 members shall represent shipping companies employed in ship operation management.

(D) 2 members shall represent the general public.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4282](/us/stat/132/4282).)*
