---
title: "§ 6568. Banking and financial transactions of Secretary of Senate"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6568"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6568"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–440, title I, § 104](/us/pl/94/440/tI/s104), Oct. 1, 1976, [90 Stat. 1443](/us/stat/90/1443).)"
---
# § 6568. Banking and financial transactions of Secretary of Senate

##### § 6568. Banking and financial transactions of Secretary of Senate

(a) Reimbursement of banks for costs of clearing items for Senate The Secretary of the Senate is authorized to reimburse any bank which clears items for the United States Senate for the costs incurred therein. Such reimbursements shall be made from the contingent fund of the Senate.

(b) Check cashing regulations for Disbursing Office of Senate The Secretary of the Senate is authorized to prescribe such regulations as he deems necessary to govern the cashing of personal checks by the Disbursing Office of the Senate.

(c) Amounts withheld from disbursements for employee indebtedness Whenever an employee whose compensation is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate becomes indebted to the Senate and such employee fails to pay such indebtedness, the Secretary of the Senate is authorized to withhold the amount of the indebtedness from any amount which is disbursed by him and which is due to, or on behalf of, such employee. Whenever an amount is withheld under this section, the appropriate account shall be credited in an amount equal to the amount so withheld.

*([Pub. L. 94–440, title I, § 104](/us/pl/94/440/tI/s104), Oct. 1, 1976, [90 Stat. 1443](/us/stat/90/1443).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 60c–2a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s60c–2a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1977.
