---
title: "§ 5493. Administrative expenses of Agency for International Development"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5493"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5493"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–179, title VIII, § 803](/us/pl/101/179/tVIII/s803), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1323](/us/stat/103/1323).)"
---
# § 5493. Administrative expenses of Agency for International Development

##### § 5493. Administrative expenses of Agency for International Development

For the purpose of paying administrative expenses incurred in connection with carrying out its functions under this chapter, the Agency for International Development may use up to $500,000 each fiscal year of the funds made available to the Agency under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 101–179, title VIII, § 803](/us/pl/101/179/tVIII/s803), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1323](/us/stat/103/1323).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 101–179](/us/pl/101/179), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1298](/us/stat/103/1298), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5401 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5401) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Administrative Expenses of Agency for International Development for Fiscal Year 1991; Supersedure of Section

[Pub. L. 101–513, title II](/us/pl/101/513/tII), (d), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1994](/us/stat/104/1994), provided that: “Up to $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading [“Assistance for Eastern Europe”] may be used for the administrative expenses incurred by the Agency for International Development in connection with administering programs for Eastern Europe: *Provided*, That the authority of this subsection shall supersede for fiscal year 1991 the provisions of section 803 of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 [[22 U.S.C. 5493](/us/usc/t22/s5493)].
