---
title: "§ 6595. Compensation of Administrative Assistant to Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6595"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6595"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–38, title I, § 106(2)](/us/pl/96/38/tI/s106/2), (3), July 25, 1979, [93 Stat. 112](/us/stat/93/112).)"
---
# § 6595. Compensation of Administrative Assistant to Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate

##### § 6595. Compensation of Administrative Assistant to Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate

(1) the maximum annual rate of compensation of the Administrative Assistant to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate shall be the same as the highest maximum annual rate of compensation that may be paid to an employee in the office of a Senator; and

(2) Omitted

*([Pub. L. 96–38, title I, § 106(2)](/us/pl/96/38/tI/s106/2), (3), July 25, 1979, [93 Stat. 112](/us/stat/93/112).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61e–2 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61e–2) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section consists of pars. (2) and (3) of [section 106 of Pub. L. 96–38](/us/pl/96/38/s106), Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1979. The paragraph numbers (2) and (3) in the original have been changed to (1) and (2) for purposes of codification.

Par. (2), relating to maximum annual rate of compensation of Executive Assistant to Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate, was omitted from the Code in view of [section 6597 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s6597) which abolished all statutory positions in the Office of Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate, with specified exceptions, effective Oct. 1, 1981, and authorized Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate to appoint and fix compensation of such employees as appropriate.
