---
title: "§ 5474. Annual SEED Program report"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5474"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5474"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–179, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/101/179/tVII/s704), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/103/1321); [Pub. L. 112–74, div. I, title VII, § 7034(n)](/us/pl/112/74/dI/tVII/s7034/n), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 1217](/us/stat/125/1217).)"
---
# § 5474. Annual SEED Program report

##### § 5474. Annual SEED Program report

(a) Findings The Congress finds that—

(1) in order to provide the President with maximum flexibility and opportunity for innovation in implementation of the SEED Program, this chapter sets forth general goals and modalities for the support of democracy and economic pluralism in Eastern Europe;

(2) prompt United States action in devising specific measures to achieve the goals outlined in this chapter will be crucial in generating the public awareness, and the international commitment, necessary for United States leadership of a successful multilateral program of assistance in Eastern Europe; and

(3) clear-cut delineation of such United States actions at an early date is integral to United States leadership of this effort.

(b) Initial SEED Program report Accordingly, the first report pursuant to subsection (c) 11 See References in Text note below. shall be a comprehensive report that includes a full description of all SEED Actions taken pursuant to each provision of this chapter since November 28, 1989.

*([Pub. L. 101–179, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/101/179/tVII/s704), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/103/1321); [Pub. L. 112–74, div. I, title VII, § 7034(n)](/us/pl/112/74/dI/tVII/s7034/n), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 1217](/us/stat/125/1217).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 101–179](/us/pl/101/179), Nov. 28, 1989, [103 Stat. 1298](/us/stat/103/1298), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5401 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5401) and Tables.

Subsection (c), referred to in subsec. (b), was repealed by [Pub. L. 112–74, div. I, title VII, § 7034(n)](/us/pl/112/74/dI/tVII/s7034/n), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 1217](/us/stat/125/1217).

#### Amendments

2011—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–74](/us/pl/112/74) struck out subsec. (c), which required President to submit annual SEED Program report.
