---
title: "§ 5189g. Unified Federal review"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5189g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5189g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–288, title IV, § 429](/us/pl/93/288/tIV/s429), as added [Pub. L. 113–2, div. B, § 1106](/us/pl/113/2/dB/s1106), Jan. 29, 2013, [127 Stat. 45](/us/stat/127/45).)"
---
# § 5189g. Unified Federal review

##### § 5189g. Unified Federal review

(a) In general Not later than 18 months after January 29, 2013, and in consultation with the Council on Environmental Quality and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the President shall establish an expedited and unified interagency review process to ensure compliance with environmental and historic requirements under Federal law relating to disaster recovery projects, in order to expedite the recovery process, consistent with applicable law.

(b) Contents The review process established under this section shall include mechanisms to expeditiously address delays that may occur during the recovery from a major disaster and be updated, as appropriate, consistent with applicable law.

*([Pub. L. 93–288, title IV, § 429](/us/pl/93/288/tIV/s429), as added [Pub. L. 113–2, div. B, § 1106](/us/pl/113/2/dB/s1106), Jan. 29, 2013, [127 Stat. 45](/us/stat/127/45).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Unified Federal Environmental and Historic Preservation Review

[Pub. L. 115–254, div. D, § 1220](/us/pl/115/254/dD/s1220), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3453](/us/stat/132/3453), provided that: “(a) Review and Analysis.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 2018], the Administrator [of the Federal Emergency Management Agency] shall review the Unified Federal Environmental and Historic Preservation review process established pursuant to section 429 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 5189g](/us/usc/t42/s5189g)), and submit a report to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate that includes the following:“(1) An analysis of whether and how the unified process has expedited the interagency review process to ensure compliance with the environmental and historic requirements under Federal law relating to disaster recovery projects. “(2) A survey and analysis of categorical exclusions used by other Federal agencies that may be applicable to any activity related to a major disaster or emergency declared by the President under section 401 or 501, respectively, of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 5170](/us/usc/t42/s5170), 5191). “(3) Recommendations on any further actions, including any legislative proposals, needed to expedite and streamline the review process. “(b) Regulations.—After completing the review, survey, and analyses under subsection (a), but not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and after providing notice and opportunity for public comment, the Administrator shall issue regulations to implement any regulatory recommendations, including any categorical exclusions identified under subsection (a), to the extent that the categorical exclusions meet the criteria for a categorical exclusion under section 1508.4 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, and section II of DHS Instruction Manual 023–01–001–01.”
