---
title: "§ 2073. False entries and reports of moneys or securities"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2073"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2073"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 795](/us/stat/62/795); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(K)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/K), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 2073. False entries and reports of moneys or securities

##### § 2073. False entries and reports of moneys or securities

Whoever, being an officer, clerk, agent, or other employee of the United States or any of its agencies, charged with the duty of keeping accounts or records of any kind, with intent to deceive, mislead, injure, or defraud, makes in any such account or record any false or fictitious entry or record of any matter relating to or connected with his duties; or

Whoever, being an officer, clerk, agent, or other employee of the United States or any of its agencies, charged with the duty of receiving, holding, or paying over moneys or securities to, for, or on behalf of the United States, or of receiving or holding in trust for any person any moneys or securities, with like intent, makes a false report of such moneys or securities—

Shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 795](/us/stat/62/795); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(K)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/K), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 189 ([Mar. 4, 1911, ch. 270](/us/act/1911-03-04/ch270), [36 Stat. 1355](/us/stat/36/1355)).

Words “or any of its agencies” were inserted after “United States” so as to eliminate any possible ambiguity as to scope of section. (See definitive [section 6 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s6).)

References to persons aiding and abetting were omitted. Such persons are principals under [section 2 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s2).

Minor verbal changes were made.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $5,000” in last par.
