---
title: "§ 290aa–16. Evaluation of performance of Department of Health and Human Services programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290aa–16"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290aa–16"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–198, title VII, § 701(d)](/us/pl/114/198/tVII/s701/d), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 739](/us/stat/130/739).)"
---
# § 290aa–16. Evaluation of performance of Department of Health and Human Services programs

##### § 290aa–16. Evaluation of performance of Department of Health and Human Services programs

(1) Evaluations

(A) In general Not later than 5 years after July 22, 2016, except as otherwise provided in this section,11 See References in Text note below. the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section referred to as the “Secretary”) shall complete an evaluation of any program administered by the Secretary included in this Act (or an amendment made by this Act, excluding sections 703 through 707), including any grant administered by the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration under [section 1536 of title 21](/us/usc/t21/s1536), that provides grants for the primary purpose of providing assistance in addressing problems pertaining to opioid abuse based upon the outcomes and metrics identified under paragraph (2).

(B) Publication With respect to each evaluation completed under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall, not later than 90 days after the date on which such evaluation is completed, publish the results of such evaluation and issue a report on such evaluation to the appropriate committees. Such report shall also be published along with the data used to make such evaluation.

(2) Metrics and outcomes

(A) In general Not later than 180 days after July 22, 2016, the Secretary shall identify—

(i) outcomes that are to be achieved by activities funded by the programs described in paragraph (1)(A); and

(ii) the metrics by which the achievement of such outcomes shall be determined.

(B) Publication The Secretary shall, not later than 30 days after completion of the requirement under subparagraph (A), publish the outcomes and metrics identified under such subparagraph.

(3) Metrics data collection The Secretary shall require grantees under the programs described in paragraph (1)(A) to collect, and annually report to the Secretary, data based upon the metrics identified under paragraph (2)(A).

(4) Independent evaluation For purposes of paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—

(A) enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences; or

(B) enter into a contract or cooperative agreement with an entity that—

(i) is not an agency of the Federal Government; and

(ii) is qualified to conduct and evaluate research pertaining to opioid use and abuse and draw conclusions about overall opioid use and abuse on the basis of that research.

(5) Exception If a program described in paragraph (1)(A) is subject to an evaluation similar to the evaluation required under such paragraph pursuant to another provision of Federal law, the Secretary may opt not to conduct an evaluation under such paragraph with respect to such program.

*([Pub. L. 114–198, title VII, § 701(d)](/us/pl/114/198/tVII/s701/d), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 739](/us/stat/130/739).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This section, the first time appearing in par. (1)(A), is [section 701 of Pub. L. 114–198](/us/pl/114/198/s701), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 739](/us/stat/130/739), which enacted this section, [section 290aa–15 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290aa–15), sections 10706 and 10707 of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement, and provisions set out as a note under [section 290aa–15 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290aa–15).

This Act, referred to in par. (1)(A), is [Pub. L. 114–198](/us/pl/114/198), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 695](/us/stat/130/695), known as the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016. Section 703 of the Act is not classified to the Code, and sections 704 to 707 of the Act enacted [section 1320a–7n of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–7n), amended sections 1395w–101, 1395w–104, 1395w–152, 1395ddd, 1395iii, 1396a, 1396r–8, 1396w–1, and 1397bb of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1395w–101 and 1396r–8 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2016 Amendment note set out under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.
