---
title: "§ 8119. Annual report on outpatient clinics"
identifier: "USC-T38-S8119"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section8119"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–387, title VII, § 708(a)](/us/pl/110/387/tVII/s708/a), Oct. 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 4139](/us/stat/122/4139).)"
---
# § 8119. Annual report on outpatient clinics

##### § 8119. Annual report on outpatient clinics

(a) Annual Report Required.— The Secretary shall submit to the committees an annual report on community-based outpatient clinics and other outpatient clinics of the Department. The report shall be submitted each year not later than the date on which the budget for the next fiscal year is submitted to the Congress under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105).

(b) Contents of Report.— Each report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:

(1) A list of each community-based outpatient clinic and other outpatient clinic of the Department, and for each such clinic, the type of clinic, location, size, number of health professionals employed by the clinic, workload, whether the clinic is leased or constructed and operated by the Secretary, and the annual cost of operating the clinic.

(2) A list of community-based outpatient clinics and other outpatient clinics that the Secretary opened during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year during which the report is submitted and a list of clinics the Secretary proposes opening during the fiscal year during which the report is submitted and the subsequent fiscal year, together with the cost of activating each such clinic and the information required to be provided under paragraph (1) for each such clinic and proposed clinic.

(3) A list of proposed community-based outpatient clinics and other outpatient clinics that are, as of the date of the submission of the report, under review by the National Review Panel and a list of possible locations for future clinics identified in the Department’s strategic planning process, including any identified locations in rural and underserved areas.

(4) A prioritized list of sites of care identified by the Secretary that the Secretary could establish without carrying out construction or entering into a lease, including—

(A) any such sites that could be expanded by hiring additional staff or allocating staff to Federal facilities or facilities operating in collaboration with the Federal Government; and

(B) any sites established, or able to be established, under sections 8111 and 8153 of this title.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–387, title VII, § 708(a)](/us/pl/110/387/tVII/s708/a), Oct. 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 4139](/us/stat/122/4139).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Deadline for First Annual Report

[Pub. L. 110–387, title VII, § 708(b)](/us/pl/110/387/tVII/s708/b), Oct. 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 4140](/us/stat/122/4140), provided that: “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit the first report required under [section 8119(a) of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s8119/a), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), by not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 10, 2008].”
