---
title: "§ 71101. Reaffirmation of policy"
identifier: "USC-T51-S71101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section71101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3439](/us/stat/124/3439).)"
---
# § 71101. Reaffirmation of policy

##### § 71101. Reaffirmation of policy

Congress reaffirms the policy set forth in [section 20102(g) of this title](/us/usc/t51/s20102/g) (relating to surveying near-Earth asteroids and comets).

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3439](/us/stat/124/3439).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 71101 | 42 U.S.C. 17791(a). | Pub. L. 110–422, title VIII, § 801(a), Oct. 15, 2008, 122 Stat. 4803. |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Findings

[Pub. L. 110–422, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/110/422/tVIII/s802), Oct. 15, 2008, [122 Stat. 4803](/us/stat/122/4803), provided that: “Congress makes the following findings: “(1) Near-Earth objects pose a serious and credible threat to humankind, as many scientists believe that a major asteroid or comet was responsible for the mass extinction of the majority of the Earth’s species, including the dinosaurs, nearly 65,000,000 years ago. “(2) Several such near-Earth objects have only been discovered within days of the objects’ closest approach to Earth and recent discoveries of such large objects indicate that many large near-Earth objects remain undiscovered. “(3) Asteroid and comet collisions rank as one of the most costly natural disasters that can occur. “(4) The time needed to eliminate or mitigate the threat of a collision of a potentially hazardous near-Earth object with Earth is measured in decades. “(5) Unlike earthquakes and hurricanes, asteroids and comets can provide adequate collision information, enabling the United States to include both asteroid-collision and comet-collision disaster recovery and disaster avoidance in its public-safety structure. “(6) Basic information is needed for technical and policy decisionmaking for the United States to create a comprehensive program in order to be ready to eliminate and mitigate the serious and credible threats to humankind posed by potentially hazardous near-Earth asteroids and comets. “(7) As a first step to eliminate and to mitigate the risk of such collisions, situation and decision analysis processes, as well as procedures and system resources, must be in place well before a collision threat becomes known.”
