---
title: "§ 857–13. National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere"
identifier: "USC-T33-S857–13"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section857–13"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–63, § 2](/us/pl/95/63/s2), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 265](/us/stat/91/265).)"
---
# § 857–13. National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere

##### § 857–13. National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere

There is hereby established a committee of 18 members to be known as the National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere (hereinafter in sections 857–13 to 857–18 of this title referred to as the “Committee”).

*([Pub. L. 95–63, § 2](/us/pl/95/63/s2), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 265](/us/stat/91/265).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to that contained in this section, which established a National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere with a membership of twenty-five, were contained in [section 857–6 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s857–6) prior to repeal by [section 7(a) of Pub. L. 95–63](/us/pl/95/63/s7/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of [Pub. L. 95–63](/us/pl/95/63), see [section 1 of Pub. L. 95–63](/us/pl/95/63/s1), set out as a note under [section 851 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s851).

#### Transfer of Personnel, Positions, Records, and Funds

[Pub. L. 95–63, § 7(b)](/us/pl/95/63/s7/b), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 267](/us/stat/91/267), provided that: “All personnel, positions, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, available, or to be made available in connection with the functions specified by the Act of August 16, 1971 [former sections 857–6 to 857–12 of this title] (establishing an advisory committee on oceans and atmosphere), are hereby transferred to the National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere established by this Act [sections 857–13 to 857–18 of this title]. The personnel transferred under this subsection shall be so transferred without reduction in classification or compensation except, that after such transfer, such personnel shall be subject to reductions in classification or compensation in the same manner, to the same extent, and according to the same procedure as other employees of the United States classified and compensated according to the General Schedule in title 5, United States Code.”

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
