---
title: "§ 7385s–4. Determinations regarding contraction of covered illnesses"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7385s–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7385s–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3675]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3675), as added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3161](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3161), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2181](/us/stat/118/2181).)"
---
# § 7385s–4. Determinations regarding contraction of covered illnesses

##### § 7385s–4. Determinations regarding contraction of covered illnesses

(a) Cases determined under part B A determination under part B that a Department of Energy contractor employee is entitled to compensation under that part for an occupational illness shall be treated for purposes of this part as a determination that the employee contracted that illness through exposure at a Department of Energy facility.

(b) Cases determined under former part D In the case of a covered illness of an employee with respect to which a panel has made a positive determination under section 7385*o*(d) of this title and the Secretary of Energy has accepted that determination under section 7385*o*(e)(2) of this title, or with respect to which a panel has made a negative determination under section 7385*o*(d) of this title and the Secretary of Energy has found significant evidence to the contrary under section 7385*o*(e)(2) of this title, that determination shall be treated for purposes of this part as a determination that the employee contracted the covered illness through exposure at a Department of Energy facility.

(c) Other cases

(1) In any other case, a Department of Energy contractor employee shall be determined for purposes of this part to have contracted a covered illness through exposure at a Department of Energy facility if—

(A) it is at least as likely as not that exposure to a toxic substance at a Department of Energy facility was a significant factor in aggravating, contributing to, or causing the illness; and

(B) it is at least as likely as not that the exposure to such toxic substance was related to employment at a Department of Energy facility.

(2) A determination under paragraph (1) shall be made by the Secretary.

(d) Applications by spouses and children If a spouse or child of a Department of Energy contractor employee applies for benefits under this part, the Secretary shall make a determination under this section with respect to that employee without regard to whether the spouse is a “covered spouse”, or the child is a “covered child”, under this part.

*([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3675]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3675), as added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3161](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3161), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2181](/us/stat/118/2181).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 7385*o* of this title, referred to in subsec. (b), was repealed by [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3162(i)](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3162/i), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2186](/us/stat/118/2186).
