---
title: "§ 1592. Unlawful conduct with respect to documents in furtherance of trafficking, peonage, slavery, involuntary servitude, or forced labor"
identifier: "USC-T18-S1592"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section1592"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. A, § 112(a)(2)](/us/pl/106/386/dA/s112/a/2), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/114/1488); amended [Pub. L. 110–457, title II, § 222(b)(6)](/us/pl/110/457/tII/s222/b/6), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5070](/us/stat/122/5070).)"
---
# § 1592. Unlawful conduct with respect to documents in furtherance of trafficking, peonage, slavery, involuntary servitude, or forced labor

##### § 1592. Unlawful conduct with respect to documents in furtherance of trafficking, peonage, slavery, involuntary servitude, or forced labor

(a) Whoever knowingly destroys, conceals, removes, confiscates, or possesses any actual or purported passport or other immigration document, or any other actual or purported government identification document, of another person—

shall be fined under this title or imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both.

(1) in the course of a violation of section 1581, 1583, 1584, 1589, 1590, 1591, or 1594(a);

(2) with intent to violate section 1581, 1583, 1584, 1589, 1590, or 1591; or

(3) to prevent or restrict or to attempt to prevent or restrict, without lawful authority, the person’s liberty to move or travel, in order to maintain the labor or services of that person, when the person is or has been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons, as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000,

(b) Subsection (a) does not apply to the conduct of a person who is or has been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons, as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, if that conduct is caused by, or incident to, that trafficking.

(c) Whoever obstructs, attempts to obstruct, or in any way interferes with or prevents the enforcement of this section, shall be subject to the penalties described in subsection (a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. A, § 112(a)(2)](/us/pl/106/386/dA/s112/a/2), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/114/1488); amended [Pub. L. 110–457, title II, § 222(b)(6)](/us/pl/110/457/tII/s222/b/6), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5070](/us/stat/122/5070).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, referred to in subsecs. (a)(3) and (b), is classified to [section 7102 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 110–457](/us/pl/110/457) added subsec. (c).
