---
title: "§ 7307. Able seamen—unlimited"
identifier: "USC-T46-S7307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section7307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 543](/us/stat/97/543).)"
---
# § 7307. Able seamen—unlimited

##### § 7307. Able seamen—unlimited

The required service for the endorsement of able seaman—unlimited, qualified for unlimited service on a vessel on any waters, is at least 3 years’ 11 See Temporary Reduction of Lengths of Certain Periods of Service note below. service on deck on board vessels operating at sea or on the Great Lakes.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 543](/us/stat/97/543).)*

Section 7307 requires individuals to have at least 3 years service on deck on vessels operating at sea or on the Great Lakes before their merchant mariner’s documents can be endorsed as able seamen—unlimited.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 7307 | 46:672(b)(1) |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Temporary Reduction of Lengths of Certain Periods of Service

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. C, title XXXV, § 3534(j)](/us/pl/118/31/dC/tXXXV/s3534/j), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 833](/us/stat/137/833), provided that: “For the 3-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 2023]— “(1) [section 7307 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s7307), United States Code, shall be applied by substituting ‘18 months’ for ‘3 years’; “(2) section 7308 of such title shall be applied by substituting ‘12 months’ for ‘18 months’; and “(3) section 7309 of such title shall be applied by substituting ‘6 months’ for ‘12 months’.”

#### Acceptance of Certain Services Toward Endorsement as Able Seaman

Service used to qualify for endorsement as able seaman—fishing industry to be accepted as qualifying service toward an endorsement under this section, see [section 602(e)(3) of Pub. L. 101–595](/us/pl/101/595/s602/e/3), set out as a note under [section 7306 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s7306).
