---
title: "§ 1039. Eggs and egg products not intended for use as human food; inspection; denaturing or otherwise identifying"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1039"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1039"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–597, § 10](/us/pl/91/597/s10), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1627](/us/stat/84/1627).)"
---
# § 1039. Eggs and egg products not intended for use as human food; inspection; denaturing or otherwise identifying

##### § 1039. Eggs and egg products not intended for use as human food; inspection; denaturing or otherwise identifying

Inspection shall not be provided under this chapter at any plant for the processing of any egg products which are not intended for use as human food, but such articles, prior to their offer for sale or transportation in commerce, shall be denatured or otherwise identified as prescribed by regulations of the Secretary to deter their use for human food. No person shall buy, sell, or transport or offer to buy or sell, or offer or receive for transportation, in commerce, any restricted eggs or egg products which are not intended for use as human food unless they are denatured or otherwise identified as required by the regulations of the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 91–597, § 10](/us/pl/91/597/s10), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1627](/us/stat/84/1627).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–597](/us/pl/91/597), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1620](/us/stat/84/1620), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1031 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1031) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For effective date of this section, see [section 29 of Pub. L. 91–597](/us/pl/91/597/s29), set out as a note under [section 1031 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1031).
