---
title: "§ 9053. Dairy margin coverage"
identifier: "USC-T7-S9053"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section9053"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1403](/us/pl/113/79/tI/s1403), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 689](/us/stat/128/689); [Pub. L. 115–334, title I, § 1401(k)(4)](/us/pl/115/334/tI/s1401/k/4), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/132/4516).)"
---
# § 9053. Dairy margin coverage

##### § 9053. Dairy margin coverage

(a) In general The Secretary shall continue to administer a dairy margin coverage program for dairy producers under which participating dairy operations are paid a dairy margin coverage payment when actual dairy production margins are less than the threshold levels for a dairy margin coverage payment.

(b) Regulations Subpart A of part 1430 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on December 20, 2018), shall remain in effect for dairy margin coverage beginning with the 2019 calendar year, except to the extent that the regulations are inconsistent with any provision of this Act.

*([Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1403](/us/pl/113/79/tI/s1403), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 689](/us/stat/128/689); [Pub. L. 115–334, title I, § 1401(k)(4)](/us/pl/115/334/tI/s1401/k/4), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/132/4516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 113–79](/us/pl/113/79), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 649](/us/stat/128/649), known as the Agricultural Act of 2014. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9001 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s9001) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–334, § 1401(k)(4)(B)](/us/pl/115/334/s1401/k/4/B)–(D), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, substituted “The Secretary shall continue to administer a dairy margin coverage program” for “Not later than September 1, 2014, the Secretary shall establish and administer a margin protection program”, substituted “dairy margin coverage payment” for “margin protection payment” in two places, and added subsec. (b).

[Pub. L. 115–334, § 1401(k)(4)(A)](/us/pl/115/334/s1401/k/4/A), substituted “Dairy margin coverage” for “Establishment of margin protection program for dairy producers” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, see [section 1401(m) of Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334/s1401/m), set out as a note under [section 9051 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s9051).
