---
title: "§ 131. Advances to disbursing officers"
identifier: "USC-T25-S131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 2092.)"
---
# § 131. Advances to disbursing officers

##### § 131. Advances to disbursing officers

No superintendent of Indian affairs, or Indian agent, or other disbursing officer in such service, shall have advanced to him, on Indian or public account, any money to be disbursed in future, until such superintendent, agent, or officer in such service has settled his accounts of the preceding year, and has satisfactorily shown that all balances in favor of the Government, which may appear to be in his hands, are ready to be paid over on the order of the Secretary of the Interior.

*(R.S. § 2092.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 2092 derived from [act June 27, 1846, ch. 34, § 1](/us/act/1846-06-27/ch34/s1), [9 Stat. 20](/us/stat/9/20).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Indian Agents

The services of Indian agents have been dispensed with. See note set out under [section 64 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s64).

#### Superintendent of Indian Affairs

No appropriation for any superintendent of Indian affairs has been made since [act Mar. 3, 1877, ch. 101, § 1](/us/act/1877-03-03/ch101/s1), [19 Stat. 271](/us/stat/19/271).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Transfer of disbursement functions of all Government agencies with certain exceptions to the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, see note set out under [section 53 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s53).
