---
title: "§ 3973. Application for insurance protection"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3973"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3973"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title IV, § 403, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2852](/us/stat/117/2852).)"
---
# § 3973. Application for insurance protection

##### § 3973. Application for insurance protection

(a) Application procedure An application for protection under this subchapter shall—

(1) be in writing and signed by the insured, the insured’s legal representative, or the insured’s beneficiary, as the case may be;

(2) identify the policy and the insurer; and

(3) include an acknowledgement that the insured’s rights under the policy are subject to and modified by the provisions of this subchapter.

(b) Additional requirements The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may require additional information from the applicant, the insured and the insurer to determine if the policy is entitled to protection under this subchapter.

(c) Notice to the Secretary by the insurer Upon receipt of the application of the insured, the insurer shall furnish a report concerning the policy to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs as required by regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

(d) Policy modification Upon application for protection under this subchapter, the insured and the insurer shall have constructively agreed to any policy modification necessary to give this title full force and effect.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title IV, § 403, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2852](/us/stat/117/2852).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 543 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 403 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. IV, [54 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/54/1184); [Oct. 6, 1942, ch. 581, § 13](/us/act/1942-10-06/ch581/s13), [56 Stat. 775](/us/stat/56/775); [Pub. L. 102–12, § 9(14)](/us/pl/102/12/s9/14), Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 40](/us/stat/105/40), related to determination of policies entitled to protection, notice to parties, and lapse of policies for nonpayment of premiums, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189). See [section 3974 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3974).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
