---
title: "§ 3483a. Department of Education Nonrecurring Expenses Fund"
identifier: "USC-T20-S3483a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section3483a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. H, title III, § 313](/us/pl/116/260/dH/tIII/s313), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 1609](/us/stat/134/1609).)"
---
# § 3483a. Department of Education Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

##### § 3483a. Department of Education Nonrecurring Expenses Fund

There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the “Department of Education Nonrecurring Expenses Fund” (the Fund): *Provided*, That unobligated balances of expired discretionary funds appropriated for this or any succeeding fiscal year from the General Fund of the Treasury to the Department of Education by this or any other Act may be transferred (not later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes for which appropriated) into the Fund: *Provided further*, That amounts deposited in the Fund shall be available until expended, and in addition to such other funds as may be available for such purposes, for information and business technology system modernization and facilities infrastructure improvements necessary for the operation of the Department, subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget: *Provided further*, That amounts in the Fund may be obligated only after the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 30 days in advance of the specific information and business technology system modernization project or facility infrastructure improvement obligations planned for such amounts.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. H, title III, § 313](/us/pl/116/260/dH/tIII/s313), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 1609](/us/stat/134/1609).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is div. H of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 1547](/us/stat/134/1547), known as the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2021, and not as part of the Department of Education Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
