---
title: "§ 7143a. Amounts obligated but unspent; prohibition on use of funds"
identifier: "USC-T16-S7143a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section7143a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–393, title III, § 304](/us/pl/106/393/tIII/s304), as added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title XII, § 41202(g)(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tXII/s41202/g/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/135/1134).)"
---
# § 7143a. Amounts obligated but unspent; prohibition on use of funds

##### § 7143a. Amounts obligated but unspent; prohibition on use of funds

(a) Amounts obligated but unspent Any county funds that were obligated by the applicable participating county before October 1, 2017, but are unspent on October 1, 2020—

(1) may, at the option of the participating county, be deemed to have been reserved by the participating county on October 1, 2020, for expenditure in accordance with this subchapter; and

(2)

(A) may be used by the participating county for any authorized use under [section 7142(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s7142/a); and

(B) on a determination by the participating county under subparagraph (A) to use the county funds, shall be available for projects initiated after October 1, 2020, subject to [section 7144 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s7144).

(b) Prohibition on use of funds Notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective beginning on November 15, 2021, no county funds made available under this subchapter may be used by any participating county for any lobbying activity, regardless of the purpose for which the funds are obligated on or before that date.

*([Pub. L. 106–393, title III, § 304](/us/pl/106/393/tIII/s304), as added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title XII, § 41202(g)(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tXII/s41202/g/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/135/1134).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 304 of Pub. L. 106–393](/us/pl/106/393/s304) was renumbered section 305 and is classified to [section 7144 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s7144).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), including authority of Secretary of Labor, see [section 18851 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s18851), The Public Health and Welfare.
