---
title: "§ 914. Art. 114. Endangerment offenses"
identifier: "USC-T10-S914"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section914"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 72](/us/stat/70A/72); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5426](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5426), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2948](/us/stat/130/2948).)"
---
# § 914. Art. 114. Endangerment offenses

##### § 914. Art. 114. Endangerment offenses

(a) Reckless Endangerment.— Any person subject to this chapter who engages in conduct that—

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(1) is wrongful and reckless or is wanton; and

(2) is likely to produce death or grievous bodily harm to another person;

(b) Dueling.— Any person subject to this chapter—

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(1) who fights or promotes, or is concerned in or connives at fighting, a duel; or

(2) who, having knowledge of a challenge sent or about to be sent, fails to report the facts promptly to the proper authority;

(c) Firearm Discharge, Endangering Human Life.— Any person subject to this chapter who, willfully and wrongly, discharges a firearm, under circumstances such as to endanger human life shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(d) Carrying Concealed Weapon.— Any person subject to this chapter who unlawfully carries a dangerous weapon concealed on or about his person shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 72](/us/stat/70A/72); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5426](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5426), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2948](/us/stat/130/2948).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 914 | 50:708. | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 114), 64 Stat. 139. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—[Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Any person subject to this chapter who fights or promotes, or is concerned in or connives at fighting a duel, or who, having knowledge of a challenge sent or about to be sent, fails to report the facts promptly to the proper authority, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).
