---
title: "§ 7312. Composition"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7312"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7312"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–127, title I, § 182](/us/pl/104/127/tI/s182), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 938](/us/stat/110/938).)"
---
# § 7312. Composition

##### § 7312. Composition

(a) Membership and appointment The Commission shall be composed of 11 members, appointed as follows:

(1) Three members shall be appointed by the President.

(2) Four members shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives in consultation with the ranking minority member of the Committee.

(3) Four members shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate in consultation with the ranking minority member of the Committee.

(b) Qualifications At least 1 of the members appointed under each of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a) shall be an individual who is primarily involved in production agriculture. All other members of the Commission shall be appointed from among individuals having knowledge and experience in agricultural production, marketing, finance, or trade.

(c) Term of members; vacancies A member of the Commission shall be appointed for the life of the Commission. A vacancy on the Commission shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.

(d) Time for appointment; first meeting The members of the Commission shall be appointed not later than October 1, 1997. The Commission shall convene its first meeting to carry out its duties under this subchapter 30 days after 6 members of the Commission have been appointed.

(e) Chairperson The chairperson of the Commission shall be designated jointly by the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate from among the members of the Commission.

*([Pub. L. 104–127, title I, § 182](/us/pl/104/127/tI/s182), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 938](/us/stat/110/938).)*
