---
title: "§ 7385s–5. Applicability to certain uranium employees"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7385s–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7385s–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3676]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3676), as added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3161](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3161), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2182](/us/stat/118/2182).)"
---
# § 7385s–5. Applicability to certain uranium employees

##### § 7385s–5. Applicability to certain uranium employees

(a) In general This part shall apply to—

(1) a section 5 payment recipient who contracted a section 5 illness through a section 5 exposure at a section 5 facility, or

(2) a section 5 uranium worker determined under [section 7385s–4(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7385s–4/c) to have contracted a covered illness through exposure to a toxic substance at a section 5 mine or mill,(or to the survivor of that employee, as applicable) on the same basis as it applies to a Department of Energy contractor employee determined under [section 7385s–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7385s–4) to have contracted a covered illness through exposure to a toxic substance at a Department of Energy facility (or to the survivor of that employee, as applicable).

(b) Definitions In this section:

(1) The term “section 5 payment recipient” means an individual who receives, or has received, $100,000 under section 5 of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act ([42 U.S.C. 2210](/us/usc/t42/s2210) note) for a claim made under that Act.

(2) The terms “section 5 exposure”, “section 5 facility”, and “section 5 illness” mean the exposure, facility, and illness, respectively, to which an individual’s status as a section 5 payment recipient relates.

(3) The term “section 5 uranium worker” means an individual to whom subsection (a)(1)(A)(i) of section 5 of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act applies (whether directly or by reason of subsection (a)(2)).

(4) The term “section 5 mine or mill” means the mine or mill to which an individual’s status as a section 5 uranium worker relates.

*([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3676]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3676), as added [Pub. L. 108–375, div. C, title XXXI, § 3161](/us/pl/108/375/dC/tXXXI/s3161), Oct. 28, 2004, [118 Stat. 2182](/us/stat/118/2182).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 101–426](/us/pl/101/426), Oct. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 920](/us/stat/104/920), which is set out as a note under [section 2210 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2210).
