---
title: "§ 3198. Office of Tribal Economic Development"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3198"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3198"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–136, title V, § 508](/us/pl/89/136/tV/s508), as added [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2227](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2227), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3192](/us/stat/138/3192).)"
---
# § 3198. Office of Tribal Economic Development

##### § 3198. Office of Tribal Economic Development

(a) Establishment There is established within the Economic Development Administration an Office of Tribal Economic Development (referred to in this section as the “Office”).

(b) Purposes The purposes of the Office shall be—

(1) to coordinate all Tribal economic development activities carried out by the Secretary;

(2) to help Tribal communities access economic development assistance programs, including the assistance provided under this chapter;

(3) to coordinate Tribal economic development strategies and efforts with other Federal agencies; and

(4) to be a participant in any negotiated rulemakings or consultations relating to, or having an impact on, projects, programs, or funding that benefit Tribal communities.

(c) Tribal economic development strategy

(1) In general Not later than 1 year after January 4, 2025, the Office shall initiate a Tribal consultation process to develop, and not less frequently than every 3 years thereafter, update, a strategic plan for Tribal economic development for the Economic Development Administration.

(2) Submission to Congress Not later than 1 year after January 4, 2025, and not less frequently than every 3 years thereafter, the Office shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate the strategic plan for Tribal economic development developed under paragraph (1).

(d) Outreach The Secretary shall establish a publicly facing website to help provide a comprehensive, single source of information for Indian tribes, Tribal leaders, Tribal businesses, and citizens in Tribal communities to better understand and access programs that support economic development in Tribal communities, including the economic development programs administered by Federal agencies or departments other than the Department.

(e) Dedicated staff The Secretary shall ensure that the Office has sufficient staff to carry out all outreach activities under this section.

*([Pub. L. 89–136, title V, § 508](/us/pl/89/136/tV/s508), as added [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2227](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2227), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3192](/us/stat/138/3192).)*
