---
title: "§ 4282. Arrested but unconvicted persons"
identifier: "USC-T18-S4282"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section4282"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 856](/us/stat/62/856); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 207](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s207), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 1986](/us/stat/98/1986).)"
---
# § 4282. Arrested but unconvicted persons

##### § 4282. Arrested but unconvicted persons

On the release from custody of a person arrested on a charge of violating any law of the United States or of the Territory of Alaska, but not indicted nor informed against, or indicted or informed against but not convicted, and detained pursuant to chapter 207, or a person held as a material witness, the court in its discretion may direct the United States marshal for the district wherein he is released, pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Attorney General, to furnish the person so released with transportation and subsistence to the place of his arrest, or, at his election, to the place of his bona fide residence if such cost is not greater than to the place of arrest.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 856](/us/stat/62/856); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 207](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s207), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 1986](/us/stat/98/1986).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 746a ([July 3, 1926, ch. 795, § 2](/us/act/1926-07-03/ch795/s2), as added [June 21, 1941, ch. 212](/us/act/1941-06-21/ch212), [55 Stat. 254](/us/stat/55/254)).

The phrase “informed against” was inserted in two places in view of the fact that under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure the use of informations may be expected to increase. See Rule 7(b).

The section was extended to cover a person held as a material witness and unable to make bail. His predicament obviously calls for the relief afforded by the revised section.

Changes were made in phraseology and surplusage omitted.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) substituted “and detained pursuant to chapter 207” for “and not admitted to bail” and struck out “and unable to make bail” after “held as a material witness”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Admission of Alaska as State

Admission of Alaska into the Union was accomplished Jan. 3, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3269, Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16, as required by sections 1 and 8(c) of [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 339](/us/stat/72/339), set out as notes preceding [section 21 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s21), Territories and Insular Possessions.
