---
title: "§ 1644a. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1644a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1644a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54](/us/act/1950-03-10/ch54), title VI, § 601, as added [Pub. L. 94–542](/us/pl/94/542), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2509](/us/stat/90/2509).)"
---
# § 1644a. Definitions

##### § 1644a. Definitions

(1) The term “national of the United States” means—

(2) The term “Commission” means the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States.

(3) The term “property” means any property, right, or interest, including any leasehold interest, and debts owed by enterprises which have been nationalized, expropriated, or taken by the German Democratic Republic for which no restoration or no adequate compensation has been made to the former owners of such property.

(4) The term “German Democratic Republic” includes the government of any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof or under its control.

(5) The term “Claims Fund” is the special fund established in the Treasury of the United States composed of such sums as may be paid to the United States by the German Democratic Republic pursuant to the terms of any agreement settling such claims that may be entered into by the Governments of the United States and the German Democratic Republic.

*([Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54](/us/act/1950-03-10/ch54), title VI, § 601, as added [Pub. L. 94–542](/us/pl/94/542), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2509](/us/stat/90/2509).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States as Separate Agency Within Department of Justice

For provisions transferring Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States as a separate agency within the Department of Justice, see section 1622a et seq. of this title.
