---
title: "§ 2705. Emergency mortgage relief payments"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2705"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2705"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–50, title I, § 106](/us/pl/94/50/tI/s106), July 2, 1975, [89 Stat. 251](/us/stat/89/251).)"
---
# § 2705. Emergency mortgage relief payments

##### § 2705. Emergency mortgage relief payments

(a) Direct payments to mortgagee In the case of any mortgagee which would otherwise be eligible to participate in the program authorized under [section 2704 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2704) but does not qualify for an advance or advances as authorized by section 2712 11 See References in Text note below. of this title or under section 1430, 1430b, or 1431 of this title or otherwise elects not to participate in the program authorized under [section 2704 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2704), the Secretary is authorized to make repayable emergency mortgage relief payments directly to such mortgagee on behalf of homeowners whose mortgages are held by such financial institution and who are delinquent in their mortgage payments.

(b) Mortgages eligible; terms and conditions Emergency mortgage relief payments shall be made under this section only with respect to a mortgage which meets the requirements of [section 2702 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2702) and only on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, subject to the provisions of [section 2703 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2703).

(c) Processing of relief payments; power of Secretary The Secretary may make such delegations and accept such certifications with respect to the processing of mortgage relief payments provided under this section as he deems appropriate to facilitate the prompt and efficient implementation of the assistance authorized under this section.

*([Pub. L. 94–50, title I, § 106](/us/pl/94/50/tI/s106), July 2, 1975, [89 Stat. 251](/us/stat/89/251).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2712 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2712), referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1496(b)(7)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1496/b/7), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2209](/us/stat/124/2209).
