---
title: "§ 854a–1. Temporary appointment or advancement of commissioned officers in time of war or national emergency"
identifier: "USC-T33-S854a–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section854a–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Dec. 3, 1942, ch. 670, § 1](/us/act/1942-12-03/ch670/s1), [56 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/56/1038); [Pub. L. 89–657, § 3](/us/pl/89/657/s3), Oct. 14, 1966, [80 Stat. 907](/us/stat/80/907); 1965 Reorg. Plan No. 2, eff. July 13, 1965, 30 F.R. 8819, [79 Stat. 1318](/us/stat/79/1318); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090).)"
---
# § 854a–1. Temporary appointment or advancement of commissioned officers in time of war or national emergency

##### § 854a–1. Temporary appointment or advancement of commissioned officers in time of war or national emergency

(1) Commissioned officers in the service of a military department, under the provisions of sections 854, 855, 856, 857, and 858 11 See References in Text note below. of this title may, upon the recommendation of the Secretary of the military department concerned, be temporarily promoted to higher ranks or grades.

(2) Commissioned officers in the service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration may be temporarily promoted to fill vacancies in ranks and grades caused by the transfer of commissioned officers to the service and jurisdiction of a military department under the provisions of sections 854, 855, 856, 857, and 858 ^1 of this title.

(3) Temporary appointments may be made in all grades to which original appointments in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration are authorized: *Provided*, That the number of officers holding temporary appointments shall not exceed the number of officers transferred to a military department under the provisions of sections 854, 855, 856, 857, and 858 ^1 of this title.

*([Dec. 3, 1942, ch. 670, § 1](/us/act/1942-12-03/ch670/s1), [56 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/56/1038); [Pub. L. 89–657, § 3](/us/pl/89/657/s3), Oct. 14, 1966, [80 Stat. 907](/us/stat/80/907); 1965 Reorg. Plan No. 2, eff. July 13, 1965, 30 F.R. 8819, [79 Stat. 1318](/us/stat/79/1318); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 854, 855, 856, 857, and 858 of this title, referred to in text, were repealed by [Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 271(4)](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s271/4), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/116/3094).

#### Codification

Provisions similar to this section are contained in [section 3030 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3030).

#### Amendments

1966—[Pub. L. 89–657](/us/pl/89/657) struck out reference to act of July 24, 1941 (Public, Numbered 188, Seventy-seventh Congress) which, for purposes of codification, has been changed to sections 350 to 350j of former title 34 and substituted Environmental Science Services Administration for Coast and Geodetic Survey, temporary advancement of commissioned officers for temporary promotions, military departments for Department of the Army or Navy Department, Secretary of the military department concerned for Secretary of the Army or Secretary of the Navy, and reference to temporary appointments in all grades to which original appointments in the Environmental Science Services Administration are authorized for reference to temporary appointment of regularly appointed deck officers and junior engineers to the rank and grade of ensign.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Coast and Geodetic Survey consolidated with Weather Bureau to form a new agency in Department of Commerce to be known as Environmental Science Services Administration, and commissioned officers of Survey transferred to ESSA, by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1965, eff. July 13, 1965, 30 F.R. 8819, [79 Stat. 1318](/us/stat/79/1318), set out as a note under [section 851 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s851). The Reorg. Plan also transferred to Secretary of Commerce all functions of Coast and Geodetic Survey and Director of Survey. Subsequently, Environmental Science Services Administration abolished, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration established, and Commissioned Officer Corps of ESSA redesignated Commissioned Officer Corps of NOAA by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. For further details, see note set out under [section 851 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s851).

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under pars. (1), (2), and (3) delegated to Secretary of Commerce, see section 1(b), (i) and (j) of Ex. Ord. No. 11023, May 28, 1962, 27 F.R. 5131, set out as a note under [section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), The President.
