---
title: "§ 8451. Connect our parks"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8451"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8451"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 141](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s141), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2862](/us/stat/138/2862).)"
---
# § 8451. Connect our parks

##### § 8451. Connect our parks

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Appropriate committees of Congress The term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—

(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives; and

(D) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.

(2) Broadband internet access service The term “broadband internet access service” has the meaning given the term in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).

(3) Cellular service The term “cellular service” has the meaning given the term in section 22.99 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).

(4) National Park The term “National Park” means a unit of the National Park System.

(5) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service.

(b) Assessment

(1) In general Not later than 1 year after January 4, 2025, the Secretary shall complete an assessment of National Parks to identify—

(A) locations in National Parks in which there is the greatest need for broadband internet access service, based on the considerations described in paragraph (2)(A); and

(B) areas in National Parks in which there is the greatest need for cellular service, based on the considerations described in paragraph (2)(B).

(2) Considerations

(A) Broadband internet access service For purposes of identifying locations in National Parks under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall consider, with respect to each National Park, the availability of broadband internet access service in—

(i) housing;

(ii) administrative facilities and related structures;

(iii) lodging;

(iv) developed campgrounds; and

(v) any other location within the National Park in which broadband internet access service is determined to be necessary by the superintendent of the National Park.

(B) Cellular service For purposes of identifying areas in National Parks under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall consider, with respect to each National Park, the availability of cellular service in any developed area within the National Park that would increase—

(i) the access of the public to emergency services and traveler information technologies; or

(ii) the communications capabilities of National Park Service employees.

(3) Report On completion of the assessment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, and make available on the website of the Department of the Interior, a report describing the results of the assessment.

(c) Plan

(1) In general Not later than 3 years after January 4, 2025, the Secretary shall develop a plan, based on the results of the assessment completed under subsection (b) and subject to paragraph (4)—

(A) to install broadband internet access service infrastructure in certain locations in National Parks; and

(B) to install cellular service equipment and infrastructure in certain areas of National Parks.

(2) Consultation In developing the plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with—

(A) affected Indian Tribes; and

(B) local stakeholders that the superintendent of the applicable National Park determines to be appropriate.

(3) Requirements The plan developed under paragraph (1) shall—

(A) provide for avoiding or minimizing impacts to—

(i) National Park viewsheds;

(ii) cultural and natural resources;

(iii) the visitor experience;

(iv) historic properties and the viewsheds of historic properties; and

(v) other resources or values of the National Park.

(B) provide for infrastructure providing broadband internet access service or cellular service to be located in—

(i) previously disturbed or developed areas; or

(ii) areas zoned for uses that would support the infrastructure;

(C) provide for the use of public-private partnerships—

(i) to install broadband internet access service or cellular service equipment; and

(ii) to provide broadband internet access service or cellular service;

(D) be technology neutral; and

(E) in the case of broadband internet access service, provide for broadband internet access service of at least—

(i) a 100–Mbps downstream transmission capacity; and

(ii) a 20–Mbps upstream transmission capacity.

(4) Limitation Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a plan developed under that paragraph shall not be required to address broadband internet access service or cellular service in any National Park with respect to which the superintendent of the National Park determines that there is adequate access to broadband internet access service or cellular service, as applicable.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 141](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s141), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2862](/us/stat/138/2862).)*
