---
title: "§ 1616e–1. Nursing school clinics"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1616e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1616e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 112A](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s112A), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 104(f)](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s104/f), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4534](/us/stat/106/4534).)"
---
# § 1616e–1. Nursing school clinics

##### § 1616e–1. Nursing school clinics

(a) Grants In addition to the authority of the Secretary under [section 1616e(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616e/a/1), the Secretary, acting through the Service, is authorized to provide grants to public or private schools of nursing for the purpose of establishing, developing, operating, and administering clinics to address the health care needs of Indians, and to provide primary health care services to Indians who reside on or within 50 miles of Indian country, as defined in [section 1151 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1151).

(b) Purposes Grants provided under subsection (a) may be used to—

(1) establish clinics, to be run and staffed by the faculty and students of a grantee school, to provide primary care services in areas in or within 50 miles of Indian country (as defined in [section 1151 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1151));

(2) provide clinical training, program development, faculty enhancement, and student scholarships in a manner that would benefit such clinics; and

(3) carry out any other activities determined appropriate by the Secretary.

(c) Amount and conditions The Secretary may award grants under this section in such amounts and subject to such conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate.

(d) Design The clinics established under this section shall be designed to provide nursing students with a structured clinical experience that is similar in nature to that provided by residency training programs for physicians.

(e) Regulations The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

(f) Authorization to use amounts Out of amounts appropriated to carry out this subchapter for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 2000 not more than $5,000,000 may be used to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 112A](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s112A), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 104(f)](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s104/f), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4534](/us/stat/106/4534).)*
