---
title: "§ 430h–7. Exclusion of lands from park"
identifier: "USC-T16-S430h–7"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section430h–7"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–442, title I, § 102](/us/pl/101/442/tI/s102), Oct. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 1019](/us/stat/104/1019).)"
---
# § 430h–7. Exclusion of lands from park

##### § 430h–7. Exclusion of lands from park

(a) Exclusion of certain lands The park boundary is hereby revised to exclude those lands depicted as “Proposed Deletions” on the map entitled “Vicksburg National Military Park” numbered 306–80,007 and dated May 1990, which map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. Exclusive jurisdiction over the lands excluded from the park is hereby retroceded to the State of Mississippi.

(b) Transfer to adjacent owners

(1) For a period ending four years after October 18, 1990, and subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), the Secretary is authorized to convey title to all or part of the lands referred to in subsection (a) to an owner of property adjacent to such lands, upon the application of such owner.

(2) No property shall be conveyed unless the application referred to in paragraph (1) is accompanied by a payment in an amount equal to—

(A) the fair market value of the land to be conveyed; and

(B) the administrative costs of such transfer incurred by the Secretary, including the costs of surveys, appraisals, and filing and recording fees.

(c) Excess property Any lands not conveyed pursuant to subsection (b) shall be reported to the Administrator of General Services as excess to the needs of the Department of the Interior and shall be subject to transfer or disposition in accordance with chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41.

*([Pub. L. 101–442, title I, § 102](/us/pl/101/442/tI/s102), Oct. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 1019](/us/stat/104/1019).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In subsec. (c), “chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41” substituted for “the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended” on authority of [Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c)](/us/pl/107/217/s5/c), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/116/1303), which Act enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and [Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c)](/us/pl/111/350/s6/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3854](/us/stat/124/3854), which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.
