---
title: "§ 10706. Promoting cross-cultural and educational engagement"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10706"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10706"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXIII, § 8337](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXIII/s8337), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1875](/us/stat/139/1875).)"
---
# § 10706. Promoting cross-cultural and educational engagement

##### § 10706. Promoting cross-cultural and educational engagement

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that—

(1) promoting partnerships between United States universities and universities in the Western Balkans advances United States foreign policy goals and requires a whole-of-government approach, including the utilization of public-private partnerships; and

(2) such partnerships would provide opportunities for exchanging academic ideas, technical expertise, research, and cultural understanding for the benefit of the United States and may provide additional beneficial opportunities for cooperation in the private sector.

(b) University partnerships The President, working through the Secretary of State, is authorized to promote partnerships between United States universities and universities in the Western Balkans, including—

(1) supporting research and analysis on cyber resilience;

(2) working with partner governments to reform policies, improve curricula, strengthen data systems, train teachers and students, including English language teaching, and to provide quality, inclusive learning materials;

(3) encouraging knowledge exchanges to help provide individuals, especially those who historically have had reduced access to relevant education, training, and skills for meaningful employment;

(4) promoting teaching and research exchanges between institutions of higher education in the Western Balkans and in the United States; and

(5) encouraging alliances and exchanges with like-minded institutions of education within the Western Balkans and the larger European continent.

*([Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXIII, § 8337](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXIII/s8337), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1875](/us/stat/139/1875).)*
