---
title: "§ 4044. Reconciliation report"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4044"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4044"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–412, title III, § 304](/us/pl/103/412/tIII/s304), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4248](/us/stat/108/4248).)"
---
# § 4044. Reconciliation report

##### § 4044. Reconciliation report

(1) a description of the Secretary’s methodology in reconciling trust fund accounts;

(2) attestations by each account holder that—

(A) the Secretary has provided the account holder with as full and complete accounting as possible of the account holder’s funds to the earliest possible date, and that the account holder accepts the balance as reconciled by the Secretary; or

(B) the account holder disputes the balance of the account holder’s account as reconciled by the Secretary and statement explaining why the account holder disputes the Secretary’s reconciled balance; and

(3) a statement by the Secretary with regard to each account balance disputed by the account holder outlining efforts the Secretary will undertake to resolve the dispute.

*([Pub. L. 103–412, title III, § 304](/us/pl/103/412/tIII/s304), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4248](/us/stat/108/4248).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Settlement of Tribal Claims

[Pub. L. 107–153, § 1](/us/pl/107/153/s1), Mar. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 79](/us/stat/116/79), as amended by [Pub. L. 109–158, § 1](/us/pl/109/158/s1), Dec. 30, 2005, [119 Stat. 2954](/us/stat/119/2954), provided that: “(a) In General.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for purposes of determining the date on which an Indian tribe received a reconciliation report for purposes of applying a statute of limitations, any such report provided to or received by an Indian tribe in response to section 304 of the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 ([25 U.S.C. 4044](/us/usc/t25/s4044)) shall be deemed to have been received by the Indian tribe on December 31, 2000. “(b) Statement of Purpose.—Subsection (a) is solely intended to provide recipients of reconciliation reports with the opportunity to postpone the filing of claims, or to facilitate the voluntary dismissal of claims, to encourage settlement negotiations with the United States.”
