---
title: "§ 906. Art. 106. Impersonation of officer, noncommissioned or petty officer, or agent or official"
identifier: "USC-T10-S906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, title LX, § 5417](/us/pl/114/328/tLX/s5417), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2945](/us/stat/130/2945).)"
---
# § 906. Art. 106. Impersonation of officer, noncommissioned or petty officer, or agent or official

##### § 906. Art. 106. Impersonation of officer, noncommissioned or petty officer, or agent or official

(a) In General.— Any person subject to this chapter who, wrongfully and willfully, impersonates—

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(1) an officer, a noncommissioned officer, or a petty officer;

(2) an agent of superior authority of one of the armed forces; or

(3) an official of a government;

(b) Impersonation With Intent to Defraud.— Any person subject to this chapter who, wrongfully, willfully, and with intent to defraud, impersonates any person referred to in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a) shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(c) Impersonation of Government Official Without Intent to Defraud.— Any person subject to this chapter who, wrongfully, willfully, and without intent to defraud, impersonates an official of a government by committing an act that exercises or asserts the authority of the office that the person claims to have shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, title LX, § 5417](/us/pl/114/328/tLX/s5417), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2945](/us/stat/130/2945).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 906 was renumbered [section 903 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s903).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).
