---
title: "§ 46109. Joinder and intervention"
identifier: "USC-T49-S46109"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section46109"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/108/1230); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(f)(8)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/f/8), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3642](/us/stat/132/3642).)"
---
# § 46109. Joinder and intervention

##### § 46109. Joinder and intervention

A person interested in or affected by a matter under consideration in a proceeding before the Secretary of Transportation (or the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration or the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to aviation safety duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator) or civil action to enforce this part or a requirement or regulation prescribed, or an order or any term of a certificate or permit issued, under this part may be joined as a party or permitted to intervene in the proceeding or civil action.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/108/1230); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(f)(8)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/f/8), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3642](/us/stat/132/3642).)*

The words “proceeding . . . or civil action” are substituted for “proceeding . . . whether such proceedings be instituted . . . or be begun originally in any court of the United States” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code and rule 2 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 App. U.S.C.). The words “prescribed . . . issued” are added for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code. The words “condition, or limitation” are omitted as being included in “term”. The words “may be joined as a party or permitted to intervene” are substituted for “it shall be lawful to include as parties, or to permit the intervention of” for clarity. The text of 49 App.:1489 (words after semicolon) is omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 46109 | 49 App.:1489. | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, § 1009, 72 Stat. 796. |
|  | 49 App.:1551(b)(1)(E). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 1601(b)(1)(E); added Oct. 4, 1984, Pub. L. 98–443, § 3(e), 98 Stat. 1704. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) inserted “(or the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration with respect to security duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration or the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to aviation safety duties and powers designated to be carried out by the Administrator)” after “Secretary of Transportation”.
