---
title: "§ 4111. Annual report by Comptroller General of the United States on cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4111"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4111"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LVII, § 5710](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLVII/s5710), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2170](/us/stat/133/2170).)"
---
# § 4111. Annual report by Comptroller General of the United States on cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress

##### § 4111. Annual report by Comptroller General of the United States on cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress

(a) Annual report required Not later than 180 days after December 20, 2019, and not less frequently than once each year thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress.

(b) Statistics Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include statistics on cyber attacks and other incidents of espionage or surveillance targeted against Senators or the immediate families or staff of the Senators, and Representatives, Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner, or the immediate families or staff of the Representatives, Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner, in which the nonpublic communications and other private information of such targeted individuals were lost, stolen, or otherwise subject to unauthorized access.

(c) Consultation In preparing a report to be submitted under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall consult with the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives, and the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.

(d) Form The report under subsection (a), including the contents of the report in subsection (b), shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex to protect sources and methods and any appropriate redactions of personally identifiable information.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LVII, § 5710](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLVII/s5710), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2170](/us/stat/133/2170).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “congressional intelligence committees” as used in this section, see [section 5003 of div. E of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/dE/s5003), set out as a note under [section 3003 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s3003), War and National Defense.
