---
title: "§ 1701p–1. Periodic report on residential mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701p–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701p–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–181, title I](/us/pl/98/181/tI) [title IV, § 469], Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1237](/us/stat/97/1237); [Pub. L. 111–203, title III, § 372](/us/pl/111/203/tIII/s372), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1566](/us/stat/124/1566).)"
---
# § 1701p–1. Periodic report on residential mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures

##### § 1701p–1. Periodic report on residential mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures

As soon as practicable following November 30, 1983, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, with the cooperation of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Comptroller of the Currency, shall develop a method of accurately reporting to the Congress on a periodic basis with respect to residential mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures. Each such report shall include information with respect to the number of residential mortgage foreclosures, and the number of sixty- and ninety-day residential mortgage delinquencies, in the Nation and in each State.

*([Pub. L. 98–181, title I](/us/pl/98/181/tI) [title IV, § 469], Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1237](/us/stat/97/1237); [Pub. L. 111–203, title III, § 372](/us/pl/111/203/tIII/s372), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1566](/us/stat/124/1566).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing and Urban–Rural Recovery Act of 1983 and also as part of the Domestic Housing and International Recovery and Financial Stability Act, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) substituted “Federal Housing Finance Agency” for “Federal Home Loan Bank Board”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the transfer date, see [section 351 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s351), set out as a note under [section 906 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s906), The Congress.

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which a report required under this section is listed on page 105), see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance.
