---
title: "§ 1923. Admission of foreign nationals for instruction; restrictions; conditions"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1923"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1923"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 91–278, § 1(6)](/us/pl/91/278/s1/6), June 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 304](/us/stat/84/304), § 195; amended [Pub. L. 94–468](/us/pl/94/468), Oct. 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 2002](/us/stat/90/2002); [Pub. L. 112–213, title II, § 204](/us/pl/112/213/tII/s204), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1543](/us/stat/126/1543); renumbered § 1923 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 110(b), 123(c)(1), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4212](/us/stat/132/4212), 4240.)"
---
# § 1923. Admission of foreign nationals for instruction; restrictions; conditions

##### § 1923. Admission of foreign nationals for instruction; restrictions; conditions

(a) A foreign national may not receive instruction at the Academy except as authorized by this section.

(b) The President may designate not more than 36 foreign nationals whom the Secretary may permit to receive instruction at the Academy.

(c) A foreign national receiving instruction under this section is entitled to the same pay, allowances, and emoluments, to be paid from the same appropriations, as a cadet appointed pursuant to [section 1922 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s1922). A foreign national may receive instruction under this section only if his country agrees in advance to reimburse the United States, at a rate determined by the Secretary, for the cost of providing such instruction, including pay, allowances, and emoluments, unless a waiver therefrom has been granted to that country by the Secretary. Funds received by the Secretary for this purpose shall be credited to the appropriations bearing the cost thereof, and may be apportioned between fiscal years.

(d) A foreign national receiving instruction under this section is—

(1) not entitled to any appointment in the Coast Guard by reason of his graduation from the Academy; and

(2) subject to those regulations applicable to the Academy governing admission, attendance, discipline, resignation, discharge, dismissal, and graduation, except as may otherwise be prescribed by the Secretary.

*(Added [Pub. L. 91–278, § 1(6)](/us/pl/91/278/s1/6), June 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 304](/us/stat/84/304), § 195; amended [Pub. L. 94–468](/us/pl/94/468), Oct. 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 2002](/us/stat/90/2002); [Pub. L. 112–213, title II, § 204](/us/pl/112/213/tII/s204), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1543](/us/stat/126/1543); renumbered § 1923 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 110(b), 123(c)(1), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4212](/us/stat/132/4212), 4240.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 110(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s110/b), renumbered [section 195 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s195) as this section.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/c/1), substituted “section 1922” for “section 182”.

2012—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–213](/us/pl/112/213) substituted “foreign national” for “person” in two places and “pay, allowances, and emoluments” for “pay and allowances” in two places.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 112–213, § 204(1)](/us/pl/112/213/s204/1), substituted “foreign national” for “person” in introductory provisions.

1976—[Pub. L. 94–468](/us/pl/94/468) substituted “foreign nationals” for “foreigners” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–468](/us/pl/94/468) substituted provision barring foreign nationals from receiving instruction at the Academy unless authorized by this section, for provision which authorized the Secretary to permit four persons at a time from the Republic of the Philippines, as designated by the President, to attend the Academy.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–468](/us/pl/94/468) substituted provision authorizing the President to designate not more than thirty-six foreign nationals whom the Secretary may permit to attend the Academy, for provision which authorized foreign nationals to receive the same pay and allowances as cadets at the Academy.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 94–468](/us/pl/94/468) substituted provision authorizing a foreign national to receive the same pay and allowances as a cadet providing his country agree in advance to reimburse the United States and directing the Secretary to credit any funds so received to the appropriations for pay and allowances, for provision which required that foreign nationals be subject to the same rules and regulations as cadets.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 94–468](/us/pl/94/468) added subsec. (d).
