---
title: "§ 1054. Advisory Board; establishment; meetings; functions; quorum; executive secretary"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1054"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1054"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–758, § 4](/us/pl/87/758/s4), Oct. 9, 1962, [76 Stat. 753](/us/stat/76/753).)"
---
# § 1054. Advisory Board; establishment; meetings; functions; quorum; executive secretary

##### § 1054. Advisory Board; establishment; meetings; functions; quorum; executive secretary

There is established a nonpartisan Advisory Board to be known as the National Fisheries Center and Aquarium Advisory Board. The Advisory Board shall meet from time to time on the call of the Chairman. The functions of the Board shall be to render advice and to submit recommendations to the Secretary of the Interior upon his request, or upon its own initiative, concerning the management and operation of the National Fisheries Center and Aquarium. Five members shall constitute a quorum to transact business. The Secretary may designate an employee of the Department to serve as Executive Secretary to the Board.

*([Pub. L. 87–758, § 4](/us/pl/87/758/s4), Oct. 9, 1962, [76 Stat. 753](/us/stat/76/753).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Boards

Advisory boards in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Officers and Employees.
