---
title: "§ 3426. Liaison for Proprietary Institutions of Higher Education"
identifier: "USC-T20-S3426"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section3426"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–88, title II, § 219](/us/pl/96/88/tII/s219), as added [Pub. L. 105–244, title IX, § 961](/us/pl/105/244/tIX/s961), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/112/1836).)"
---
# § 3426. Liaison for Proprietary Institutions of Higher Education

##### § 3426. Liaison for Proprietary Institutions of Higher Education

(a) Establishment There shall be in the Department a Liaison for Proprietary Institutions of Higher Education, who shall be an officer of the Department appointed by the Secretary.

(b) Appointment The Secretary shall appoint, not later than 6 months after October 7, 1998, a Liaison for Proprietary Institutions of Higher Education who shall be a person who—

(1) has attained a certificate or degree from a proprietary institution of higher education; or

(2) has been employed in a proprietary institution setting for not less than 5 years.

(c) Duties The Liaison for Proprietary Institutions of Higher Education shall—

(1) serve as the principal advisor to the Secretary on matters affecting proprietary institutions of higher education;

(2) provide guidance to programs within the Department that involve functions affecting proprietary institutions of higher education; and

(3) work with the Federal Interagency Committee on Education to improve the coordination of—

(A) the outreach programs in the numerous Federal departments and agencies that administer education and job training programs;

(B) collaborative business and education partnerships; and

(C) education programs located in, and involving, rural areas.

*([Pub. L. 96–88, title II, § 219](/us/pl/96/88/tII/s219), as added [Pub. L. 105–244, title IX, § 961](/us/pl/105/244/tIX/s961), Oct. 7, 1998, [112 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/112/1836).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244), see [section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244](/us/pl/105/244/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 1998 Amendment note under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1001).
