---
title: "§ 2416. Contracts and other funding arrangements"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2416"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2416"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–136, title II, § 206](/us/pl/94/136/tII/s206), Nov. 28, 1975, [89 Stat. 739](/us/stat/89/739).)"
---
# § 2416. Contracts and other funding arrangements

##### § 2416. Contracts and other funding arrangements

(a) Qualification of contracts or arrangements No contracts or other funding arrangements may be entered into under this chapter unless—

(1) such contracts or other funding arrangements will be consistent with the policies and purposes of this chapter and of potential benefit to other users in the public or private sectors;

(2) provisions are made to evaluate the demonstration program and maintain improvement data, such evaluation either to be implemented by the participating parties in accordance with specifications established by the Center, or to be implemented by or on behalf of the Center; and

(3) the participating parties agree that all information relating to any innovation or achievement generated in the course of any Center-funded demonstration program shall be public information.

(b) Duration of contracts or arrangements No contract or other funding arrangement shall be made or entered into pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for a period of more than three years.

(c) Non-Federal share of project in cash or in kind Any non-Federal share of a project may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including, but not limited to, plant, equipment, or services.

*([Pub. L. 94–136, title II, § 206](/us/pl/94/136/tII/s206), Nov. 28, 1975, [89 Stat. 739](/us/stat/89/739).)*
