---
title: "§ 2521. Subpoenas and incidental powers"
identifier: "USC-T28-S2521"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section2521"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 59(a)](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s59/a), [68 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/68/1248); amended [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 910(a)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s910/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4519](/us/stat/106/4519).)"
---
# § 2521. Subpoenas and incidental powers

##### § 2521. Subpoenas and incidental powers

(a) Subpoenas requiring the attendance of parties or witnesses and subpoenas requiring the production of books, papers, documents or tangible things by any party or witness having custody or control thereof, may be issued for purposes of discovery or for use of the things produced as evidence in accordance with the rules and orders of the court. Such subpoenas shall be issued and served and compliance therewith shall be compelled as provided in the rules and orders of the court.

(b) The United States Court of Federal Claims shall have power to punish by fine or imprisonment, at its discretion, such contempt of its authority as—

(1) misbehavior of any person in its presence or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice;

(2) misbehavior of any of its officers in their official transactions; or

(3) disobedience or resistance to its lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command.

(c) The United States Court of Federal Claims shall have such assistance in the carrying out of its lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command as is available to a court of the United States. The United States marshal for any district in which the Court of Federal Claims is sitting shall, when requested by the chief judge of the Court of Federal Claims, attend any session of the Court of Federal Claims in such district.

*(Added [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 59(a)](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s59/a), [68 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/68/1248); amended [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 910(a)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s910/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4519](/us/stat/106/4519).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) inserted “and incidental powers” in section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) effective Oct. 29, 1992, see [section 911 of Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572/s911), set out as a note under [section 171 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s171).
