---
title: "§ 3607. Support for activities and personnel outside the United States"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3607"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3607"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–36, § 9](/us/pl/86/36/s9), as added [Pub. L. 96–450, title IV, § 402(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/450/tIV/s402/a/1), Oct. 14, 1980, [94 Stat. 1977](/us/stat/94/1977); amended [Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/97/89/tVI/s601), Dec. 4, 1981, [95 Stat. 1154](/us/stat/95/1154); [Pub. L. 99–335, title V, § 507(a)](/us/pl/99/335/tV/s507/a), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 628](/us/stat/100/628); [Pub. L. 101–193, title V, § 505(b)](/us/pl/101/193/tV/s505/b), Nov. 30, 1989, [103 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/10"
---
# § 3607. Support for activities and personnel outside the United States

##### § 3607. Support for activities and personnel outside the United States

(a) Leasing of real property Notwithstanding [section 322 of the Act of June 30, 1932](/us/act/1932-06-30/s322), [section 5536 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5536), and [section 2675 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2675), the Director of the National Security Agency, on behalf of the Secretary of Defense, may lease real property outside the United States, for periods not exceeding ten years, for the use of the National Security Agency for special cryptologic activities and for housing for personnel assigned to such activities.

(b) Allowances and benefits, housing, and retirement accrual The Director of the National Security Agency, on behalf of the Secretary of Defense, may provide to certain civilian and military personnel of the Department of Defense who are assigned to special cryptologic activities outside the United States and who are designated by the Secretary of Defense for the purposes of this subsection—

(1) allowances and benefits—

(A) comparable to those provided by the Secretary of State to members of the Foreign Service under chapter 9 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 ([22 U.S.C. 4081](/us/usc/t22/s4081) et seq.) or any other provision of law; and

(B) in the case of selected personnel serving in circumstances similar to those in which personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency serve, comparable to those provided by the Director of Central Intelligence to personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency;

(2) housing (including heat, light, and household equipment) without cost to such personnel, if the Director of the National Security Agency, on behalf of the Secretary of Defense determines that it would be in the public interest to provide such housing; and

(3) special retirement accrual in the same manner provided in [section 2153 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2153) and in [section 3518 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3518).

(c) Authority subject to availability of appropriated funds The authority of the Director of the National Security Agency, on behalf of the Secretary of Defense, to make payments under subsections (a) and (b), and under contracts for leases entered into under subsection (a), is effective for any fiscal year only to the extent that appropriated funds are available for such purpose.

(d) Members of Armed Forces Members of the Armed Forces may not receive benefits under both subsection (b)(1) and title 37 for the same purpose. The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.

(e) Regulations Regulations issued pursuant to subsection (b)(1) shall be submitted to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate before such regulations take effect.

*([Pub. L. 86–36, § 9](/us/pl/86/36/s9), as added [Pub. L. 96–450, title IV, § 402(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/450/tIV/s402/a/1), Oct. 14, 1980, [94 Stat. 1977](/us/stat/94/1977); amended [Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/97/89/tVI/s601), Dec. 4, 1981, [95 Stat. 1154](/us/stat/95/1154); [Pub. L. 99–335, title V, § 507(a)](/us/pl/99/335/tV/s507/a), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 628](/us/stat/100/628); [Pub. L. 101–193, title V, § 505(b)](/us/pl/101/193/tV/s505/b), Nov. 30, 1989, [103 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/103/1709); [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 803(b)](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s803/b), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3253](/us/stat/106/3253).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 322 of the Act of June 30, 1932](/us/act/1932-06-30/s322), referred to in subsec. (a), is section 322 of [act June 30, 1932, ch. 314, title III](/us/act/1932-06-30/ch314/tIII), [47 Stat. 412](/us/stat/47/412), which was classified to section 278a of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 100–678, § 7](/us/pl/100/678/s7), Nov. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 4052](/us/stat/102/4052).

The Foreign Service Act of 1980, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(A), is [Pub. L. 96–465](/us/pl/96/465), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2071](/us/stat/94/2071). Chapter 9 of title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IX (§ 4081 et seq.) of chapter 52 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3901 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3901) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified in a note under [section 402 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s402) prior to editorial reclassification as this section. Some section numbers of this title referenced in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections prior to their editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496) substituted “the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act” for “the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees”.

1989—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 101–193](/us/pl/101/193) substituted a semicolon for “(including special retirement accrual in the same manner provided in section 303 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees ([50 U.S.C. 403](/us/usc/t50/s403) note)); and” at end of subpar. (B) of par. (1) and added par. (3).

1986—Subsec. (b)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 99–335](/us/pl/99/335) inserted “(including special retirement accrual in the same manner provided in section 303 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees ([50 U.S.C. 403](/us/usc/t50/s403) note))” before semicolon.

1981—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 97–89, § 601(a)](/us/pl/97/89/s601/a), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “allowances and benefits comparable to those provided by the Secretary of State to officers and employees of the Foreign Service under paragraphs (1), (2), (7), (9), (10), and (11) of section 1136, and under sections 1137, 1138a, 1148, 1156, 1157, and 1160, of title 22; and”.

Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 97–89, § 601(b)](/us/pl/97/89/s601/b), added subsecs. (d) and (e).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence, and reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, see section 1081(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458), set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496) effective on the first day of the fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–335](/us/pl/99/335) effective Jan. 1, 1987, see [section 702(a) of Pub. L. 99–335](/us/pl/99/335/s702/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 8401 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8401), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–89](/us/pl/97/89) effective Oct. 1, 1981, see [section 806 of Pub. L. 97–89](/us/pl/97/89/s806), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1621 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1621), Armed Forces.
