---
title: "§ 757. Cost of survey of private land claims to be reported and paid"
identifier: "USC-T43-S757"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section757"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([July 31, 1876, ch. 246](/us/act/1876-07-31/ch246), [19 Stat. 121](/us/stat/19/121); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/43/1144); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 757. Cost of survey of private land claims to be reported and paid

##### § 757. Cost of survey of private land claims to be reported and paid

An accurate account shall be kept by the Secretary of the Interior or such officer as he may designate of the cost of surveying and platting every private land claim to be reported to the Bureau of Land Management with the map of such claim; and a patent shall not issue nor shall any copy of any such survey be furnished for any such private claim until the cost of survey and platting shall have been paid into the Treasury of the United States by the party or parties in interest in said grant or by any other party.

*([July 31, 1876, ch. 246](/us/act/1876-07-31/ch246), [19 Stat. 121](/us/stat/19/121); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch462), [43 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/43/1144); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Office of Surveyor General and Transfer of Functions

Act Mar. 3, 1925, abolished office of surveyor general and transferred administration of all activities in charge of surveyors general to Field Surveying Service under jurisdiction of United States Supervisor of Surveys.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

“Field Surveying Service” changed to “Secretary of the Interior or such agency as he may designate” and “General Land Office” changed to “Bureau of Land Management”, on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946. See note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1).
