---
title: "§ 20140. Appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T51-S20140"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section20140"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3347](/us/stat/124/3347).)"
---
# § 20140. Appropriations

##### § 20140. Appropriations

(a) Authorization.—

(1) In general.— There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this chapter, except that nothing in this chapter shall authorize the appropriation of any amount for—

(A) the acquisition or condemnation of any real property; or

(B) any other item of a capital nature (such as plant or facility acquisition, construction, or expansion) which exceeds $250,000.

(2) Availability.— Sums appropriated pursuant to this subsection for the construction of facilities, or for research and development activities, shall remain available until expended.

(b) Use of Funds for Emergency Repairs of Existing Facilities.— Any funds appropriated for the construction of facilities may be used for emergency repairs of existing facilities when such existing facilities are made inoperative by major breakdown, accident, or other circumstances and such repairs are deemed by the Administrator to be of greater urgency than the construction of new facilities.

(c) Termination.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the authorization of any appropriation to the Administration shall expire (unless an earlier expiration is specifically provided) at the close of the third fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the authorization was enacted, to the extent that such appropriation has not theretofore actually been made.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3347](/us/stat/124/3347).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20140 | 42 U.S.C. 2459. | Pub. L. 85–568, title III, § 310, formerly § 307, July 29, 1958, 72 Stat. 438; Pub. L. 88–113, § 6, Sept. 6, 1963, 77 Stat. 144; renumbered § 308, Pub. L. 94–464, § 3, Oct. 8, 1976, 90 Stat. 1988; renumbered § 309, Pub. L. 96–48, § 6(b)(1), Aug. 8, 1979, 93 Stat. 348; renumbered § 310, Pub. L. 106–391, title III, § 324(a)(1), Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1599. |
