---
title: "§ 21904. Minimum standards for issuance and dissemination of alerts through Ashanti Alert communications network"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21904"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21904"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–468, title II, § 204](/us/pl/106/468/tII/s204), as added [Pub. L. 115–401, § 2(5)](/us/pl/115/401/s2/5), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5340](/us/stat/132/5340).)"
---
# § 21904. Minimum standards for issuance and dissemination of alerts through Ashanti Alert communications network

##### § 21904. Minimum standards for issuance and dissemination of alerts through Ashanti Alert communications network

(a) Establishment of minimum standards Subject to subsection (b), the Coordinator shall establish minimum standards for—

(1) the issuance of alerts through the Ashanti Alert communications network; and

(2) the extent of the dissemination of alerts issued through the Ashanti Alert communications network.

(b) Limitations

(1) Dissemination of information The minimum standards established under subsection (a) shall, to the maximum extent practicable (as determined by the Coordinator in consultation with State, Tribal, and local law enforcement agencies), provide for the dissemination of appropriate information relating to the special needs of a missing adult (including health care needs) to the appropriate law enforcement, public health, and other public officials.

(2) Geographic areas The minimum standards established under subsection (a) shall, to the maximum extent practicable (as determined by the Coordinator in consultation with State, Tribal, and local law enforcement agencies), provide that the dissemination of an alert through the Ashanti Alert communications network shall be limited to the geographic areas that the missing adult could reasonably reach, considering—

(A) the circumstances and physical and mental condition of the missing adult;

(B) the modes of transportation available to the missing adult; and

(C) the circumstances of the disappearance.

(3) Other requirements The minimum standards established under subsection (a) shall require that, in order for an Ashanti Alert to be issued for a missing adult, the missing adult—

(A) suffers from a proven mental or physical disability, as documented by a source determined credible by an appropriate law enforcement agency; or

(B) be missing under circumstances that indicate, as determined by an appropriate law enforcement agency—

(i) that the physical safety of the missing adult may be endangered; or

(ii) that the disappearance of the missing adult may not have been voluntary, including an abduction or kidnapping.

(4) Safety, privacy, and civil liberties protections The minimum standards established under subsection (a) shall—

(A) ensure that alerts issued through the Ashanti Alert communications network comply with all applicable Federal, State, Tribal, and local privacy laws and regulations;

(B) include standards that specifically provide for the protection of the civil liberties and sensitive medical information of missing adults; and

(C) include standards requiring, as appropriate, a review of relevant court records, prior contacts with law enforcement, and other information relevant to the missing adult or the individual reporting, in order to provide protections against domestic violence.

(5) State, Tribal, and local voluntary coordination In establishing minimum standards under subsection (a), the Coordinator may not interfere with the system of voluntary coordination between local broadcasters and State, Tribal, and local law enforcement agencies for purposes of regional and local search efforts for missing adults that was in effect on the day before December 31, 2018.

*([Pub. L. 106–468, title II, § 204](/us/pl/106/468/tII/s204), as added [Pub. L. 115–401, § 2(5)](/us/pl/115/401/s2/5), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5340](/us/stat/132/5340).)*
