---
title: "§ 3333. Employee affidavit; loyalty and striking against the Government"
identifier: "USC-T5-S3333"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section3333"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 424](/us/stat/80/424).)"
---
# § 3333. Employee affidavit; loyalty and striking against the Government

##### § 3333. Employee affidavit; loyalty and striking against the Government

(a) Except as provided by subsection (b) of this section, an individual who accepts office or employment in the Government of the United States or in the government of the District of Columbia shall execute an affidavit within 60 days after accepting the office or employment that his acceptance and holding of the office or employment does not or will not violate [section 7311 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s7311). The affidavit is prima facie evidence that the acceptance and holding of office or employment by the affiant does not or will not violate [section 7311 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s7311).

(b) An affidavit is not required from an individual employed by the Government of the United States or the government of the District of Columbia for less than 60 days for sudden emergency work involving the loss of human life or the destruction of property. This subsection does not relieve an individual from liability for violation of [section 7311 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s7311).

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 424](/us/stat/80/424).)*

The section is restated for clarity and to conform to the style of section 3332.

In subsection (a), the words “after August 9, 1955” are omitted as executed. The words “if the affidavit is executed prior to acceptance of such office or employment” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “From and after July 1, 1956”, appearing in the Act of June 29, 1956, are omitted as executed.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 118q. | Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 690, § 2, 69 Stat. 624. |
|  | [Uncodified]. | June 29, 1956, ch. 479, § 3 (as applicable to the Act of Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 690, § 2, 69 Stat. 624), 70 Stat. 453. |
