---
title: "§ 1519. Annual and special reports"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1519"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1519"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, § 8](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552/s8), [32 Stat. 829](/us/stat/32/829); [Pub. L. 97–31, § 12(7)](/us/pl/97/31/s12/7), Aug. 6, 1981, [95 Stat. 154](/us/stat/95/154).)"
---
# § 1519. Annual and special reports

##### § 1519. Annual and special reports

The Secretary of Commerce shall annually, at the close of each fiscal year, make a report in writing to Congress, giving an account of all moneys received and disbursed by him and his Department, and describing the work done by the Department in fostering, promoting, and developing the foreign and domestic commerce, the mining, manufacturing, and fishery industries; of the United States, and making such recommendations as he shall deem necessary for the effective performance of the duties and purposes of the Department. He shall also from time to time make such special investigations and reports as he may be required to do by the President, or by either House of Congress, or which he himself may deem necessary and urgent.

*([Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, § 8](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552/s8), [32 Stat. 829](/us/stat/32/829); [Pub. L. 97–31, § 12(7)](/us/pl/97/31/s12/7), Aug. 6, 1981, [95 Stat. 154](/us/stat/95/154).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 604 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s604) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### Amendments

1981—[Pub. L. 97–31](/us/pl/97/31) struck out references to shipping and transportation facilities.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

[Act Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch141), [37 Stat. 736](/us/stat/37/736), provided that the Department of Commerce and Labor and Secretary of Commerce and Labor were to be thereafter called the Department of Commerce and Secretary of Commerce and that the act creating the Department of Commerce and Labor (act Feb. 14, 1903) was amended accordingly.
