---
title: "§ 3116. Federal monitoring; reports to State and Congressional committees"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3116"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3116"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–487, title VIII, § 806](/us/pl/96/487/tVIII/s806), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2425](/us/stat/94/2425); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(y)](/us/pl/103/437/s6/y), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4587](/us/stat/108/4587).)"
---
# § 3116. Federal monitoring; reports to State and Congressional committees

##### § 3116. Federal monitoring; reports to State and Congressional committees

The Secretary shall monitor the provisions by the State of the subsistence preference set forth in [section 3114 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3114) and shall advise the State and the Committees on Natural Resources and on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and Environment and Public Works of the Senate annually and at such other times as he deems necessary of his views on the effectiveness of the implementation of this subchapter including the State’s provision of such preference, any exercise of his closure or other administrative authority to protect subsistence resources or uses, the views of the State, and any recommendations he may have.

*([Pub. L. 96–487, title VIII, § 806](/us/pl/96/487/tVIII/s806), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2425](/us/stat/94/2425); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(y)](/us/pl/103/437/s6/y), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4587](/us/stat/108/4587).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “the Committees on Natural Resources” for “Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries

Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives abolished and its jurisdiction transferred by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995. Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Resources of House of Representatives in case of provisions relating to fisheries, wildlife, international fishing agreements, marine affairs (including coastal zone management) except for measures relating to oil and other pollution of navigable waters, or oceanography by [section 1(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/b/3), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.
