---
title: "§ 7144e. Office of Indian Energy Policy and Programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7144e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7144e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–91, title II, § 217](/us/pl/95/91/tII/s217), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title V, § 502(a)](/us/pl/109/58/tV/s502/a), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 763](/us/stat/119/763).)"
---
# § 7144e. Office of Indian Energy Policy and Programs

##### § 7144e. Office of Indian Energy Policy and Programs

(a) Establishment There is established within the Department an Office of Indian Energy Policy and Programs (referred to in this section as the “Office”). The Office shall be headed by a Director, who shall be appointed by the Secretary and compensated at a rate equal to that of level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315).

(b) Duties of Director The Director, in accordance with Federal policies promoting Indian self-determination and the purposes of this chapter, shall provide, direct, foster, coordinate, and implement energy planning, education, management, conservation, and delivery programs of the Department that—

(1) promote Indian tribal energy development, efficiency, and use;

(2) reduce or stabilize energy costs;

(3) enhance and strengthen Indian tribal energy and economic infrastructure relating to natural resource development and electrification; and

(4) bring electrical power and service to Indian land and the homes of tribal members located on Indian lands or acquired, constructed, or improved (in whole or in part) with Federal funds.

*([Pub. L. 95–91, title II, § 217](/us/pl/95/91/tII/s217), as added [Pub. L. 109–58, title V, § 502(a)](/us/pl/109/58/tV/s502/a), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 763](/us/stat/119/763).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 565](/us/stat/91/565), known as the Department of Energy Organization Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7101) and Tables.
