---
title: "§ 3505. Seal"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([May 9, 1941, ch. 97](/us/act/1941-05-09/ch97), [55 Stat. 184](/us/stat/55/184); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. I, § 5, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)"
---
# § 3505. Seal

##### § 3505. Seal

The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services is authorized to adopt an official seal to be used as directed by the said Secretary on appropriate occasions in connection with the functions of such Department or of any office, bureau, board, or establishment which is or shall hereafter become a part of such Department, and such seal shall be judicially noticed. Copies of any books, records, papers, or other documents in the Department of Health and Human Services shall be admitted in evidence equally with the originals thereof when authenticated under such seal.

*([May 9, 1941, ch. 97](/us/act/1941-05-09/ch97), [55 Stat. 184](/us/stat/55/184); 1953 Reorg. Plan No. I, § 5, eff. Apr. 11, 1953, 18 F.R. 2053, [67 Stat. 631](/us/stat/67/631); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 623d of former Title 5, Executive Departments and Government Officers and Employees, prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 1, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” and “Department of Health and Human Services” substituted in text for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” and “Department of Health, Education, and Welfare”, respectively, pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Federal Security Administrator transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and all agencies of Federal Security Agency transferred to Department of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 5 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953, set out as a note under [section 3501 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3501). Federal Security Agency and office of Administrator abolished by section 8 of Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1953.

#### Creation of Federal Security Agency

The Federal Security Agency was created by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1939, § 201, eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2727, [53 Stat. 1423](/us/stat/53/1423), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
