---
title: "§ 410cc–25. Administrative functions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S410cc–25"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section410cc–25"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–290, title II, § 205](/us/pl/95/290/tII/s205), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 295](/us/stat/92/295).)"
---
# § 410cc–25. Administrative functions

##### § 410cc–25. Administrative functions

(a) Implementation of park management plan; emergency assistance for protection of property owners; availability of funds for Commission

(1) The Secretary, acting through the National Park Service, shall take appropriate actions to implement to the extent practicable the park management plan established pursuant to [section 410cc–21(b) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s410cc–21/b). In carrying out such plan, the Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the national park system. Before the date on which the Commission conducts its first meeting, the Secretary may take any other action the Secretary deems necessary to provide owners of property with national historic or cultural significance within the park or preservation district with emergency assistance for the purpose of preserving and protecting their property in a manner consistent with the purpose of this subchapter.

(2) Subject to sections 410cc–24 and 410cc–32(b) of this title, the Secretary shall make available to the Commission any funds appropriated under [section 410cc–13(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s410cc–13/a/2) for the purpose of carrying out part C of this subchapter.

(b) Acceptance of donations of funds, property, or services for implementation of park management plan Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Secretary may accept donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, and other private entities, and from public entities, for the purpose of implementing the park management plan.

(c) Sponsorship or coordination of educational or cultural programs The Secretary may sponsor or coordinate within the park and preservation district such educational or cultural programs as the Secretary considers appropriate to encourage appreciation of the resources of the park and preservation district.

(d) Acquisition of leases The Secretary may acquire such leases respecting property within the park as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 95–290, title II, § 205](/us/pl/95/290/tII/s205), June 5, 1978, [92 Stat. 295](/us/stat/92/295).)*
