---
title: "§ 429. Brices Cross Roads and Tupelo battlefields in Mississippi; establishment"
identifier: "USC-T16-S429"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section429"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Feb. 21, 1929, ch. 289, § 1](/us/act/1929-02-21/ch289/s1), [45 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/45/1254); Ex. Ord. No. 6166, § 2, June 10, 1933; Ex. Ord. No. 6228, § 1, July 28, 1933.)"
---
# § 429. Brices Cross Roads and Tupelo battlefields in Mississippi; establishment

##### § 429. Brices Cross Roads and Tupelo battlefields in Mississippi; establishment

For the purpose of commemorating the battles of Brices Cross Roads, Mississippi, and Tupelo, Mississippi, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed to (1) acquire not to exceed one acre of land, free of cost to the United States, at each of the above-named battle fields, (2) fence each parcel of land so acquired, (3) build an approach to each such parcel of land, and (4) erect a suitable marker on each such parcel of land.

*([Feb. 21, 1929, ch. 289, § 1](/us/act/1929-02-21/ch289/s1), [45 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/45/1254); Ex. Ord. No. 6166, § 2, June 10, 1933; Ex. Ord. No. 6228, § 1, July 28, 1933.)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of the Interior” substituted in text for “Secretary of War” pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2; Ex. Ord. No. 6166, § 2; and Ex. Ord. No. 6228, § 1. See below.

Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, transferred the functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of the Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to the Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate.

Ex. Ord. No. 6166, § 2, and Ex. Ord. No. 6228, § 1, set out as a note under [section 901 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s901), transferred the administrative functions of Brices Cross Roads and Tupelo battlefield sites to the Department of the Interior.
