---
title: "§ 1271a. Research and development program"
identifier: "USC-T33-S1271a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section1271a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–303, title I, § 106](/us/pl/107/303/tI/s106), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2358](/us/stat/116/2358); [Pub. L. 110–365, § 4](/us/pl/110/365/s4), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4023](/us/stat/122/4023).)"
---
# § 1271a. Research and development program

##### § 1271a. Research and development program

(a) In general In coordination with other Federal, State, and local officials, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may conduct research on the development and use of innovative approaches, technologies, and techniques for the remediation of sediment contamination in areas of concern that are located wholly or partially in the United States.

(b) Authorization of appropriations

(1) In general In addition to any amounts authorized under other provisions of law, there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2010.

(2) Availability Funds appropriated under paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 107–303, title I, § 106](/us/pl/107/303/tI/s106), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2358](/us/stat/116/2358); [Pub. L. 110–365, § 4](/us/pl/110/365/s4), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4023](/us/stat/122/4023).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Great Lakes Legacy Act of 2002, and also as part of the Great Lakes and Lake Champlain Act of 2002, and not as part of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 110–365](/us/pl/110/365) added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “In addition to amounts authorized under other laws, there is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2008.”
