---
title: "§ 10422. Identification and pre-clearance of platforms, technologies, and equipment for sale to Australia and the United Kingdom through foreign military sales and direct commercial sales"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10422"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10422"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XIII, § 1342](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXIII/s1342), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 509](/us/stat/137/509).)"
---
# § 10422. Identification and pre-clearance of platforms, technologies, and equipment for sale to Australia and the United Kingdom through foreign military sales and direct commercial sales

##### § 10422. Identification and pre-clearance of platforms, technologies, and equipment for sale to Australia and the United Kingdom through foreign military sales and direct commercial sales

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after December 22, 2023, and on a biennial basis thereafter for 8 years, the President shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that includes a list of advanced military platforms, technologies, and equipment that are pre-cleared and prioritized for sale and release to Australia, the United Kingdom and Canada through the Foreign Military Sales and Direct Commercial Sales programs without regard to whether a letter of request or license to purchase such platforms, technologies, or equipment has been received from any of such country.

(b) Additional items Each list may include items that are not related to the AUKUS partnership but may not include items that are not covered by an exemption under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations except unmanned aerial or hypersonic systems.

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XIII, § 1342](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXIII/s1342), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 509](/us/stat/137/509).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions and authorities vested in the President under this section delegated to Secretary of State, in consultation with Secretaries of Defense and Energy, by Memorandum of President of the United States, § 1(c)(ii), July 9, 2024, 89 F.R. 57337, set out in a note under [section 10413 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s10413).
