---
title: "§ 1945. Retirement of permanent commissioned teaching staff"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1945"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1945"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 509](/us/stat/63/509), § 190; [Pub. L. 86–474, § 1(13)](/us/pl/86/474/s1/13), May 14, 1960, [74 Stat. 145](/us/stat/74/145); [Pub. L. 88–130, § 1(8)](/us/pl/88/130/s1/8), Sept. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 175](/us/stat/77/175); [Pub. L. 89–444, § 1(10)](/us/pl/89/444/s1/10), June 9, 1966, [80 Stat. 196](/us/stat/80/196); [Pub. L. 91–278, § 1(5)](/us/pl/91/278/s1/5), June 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 304](/us/stat/84/304); renumbered § 1945 and amended"
---
# § 1945. Retirement of permanent commissioned teaching staff

##### § 1945. Retirement of permanent commissioned teaching staff

Professors, associate professors, assistant professors, and instructors in the Coast Guard shall be subject to retirement or discharge from active service for any cause on the same basis as other commissioned officers of the Coast Guard, except that they shall not be required to retire from active service under the provisions of [section 2149 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2149), nor shall they be subject to the provisions of [section 2150 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2150), nor shall they be required to retire at age sixty-two but may be permitted to serve until age sixty-four at which time unless earlier retired or separated they shall be retired. The Secretary may retire any member of the permanent commissioned teaching staff who has completed thirty years’ active service. Service as a civilian member of the teaching staff at the Academy in addition to creditable service authorized by any other law in any of the military services rendered prior to an appointment as a professor, associate professor, assistant professor, or instructor shall be credited in computing length of service for retirement purposes. The provisions of law relating to retirement for disability in line of duty shall not apply in the case of a professor, associate professor, assistant professor, or instructor serving under a temporary appointment.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 509](/us/stat/63/509), § 190; [Pub. L. 86–474, § 1(13)](/us/pl/86/474/s1/13), May 14, 1960, [74 Stat. 145](/us/stat/74/145); [Pub. L. 88–130, § 1(8)](/us/pl/88/130/s1/8), Sept. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 175](/us/stat/77/175); [Pub. L. 89–444, § 1(10)](/us/pl/89/444/s1/10), June 9, 1966, [80 Stat. 196](/us/stat/80/196); [Pub. L. 91–278, § 1(5)](/us/pl/91/278/s1/5), June 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 304](/us/stat/84/304); renumbered § 1945 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 110(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4212](/us/stat/132/4212), 4240.)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 14, U.S.C., 1946 ed., § 15f ([Apr. 16, 1937, ch. 107, § 5](/us/act/1937-04-16/ch107/s5), [50 Stat. 67](/us/stat/50/67)).

The provision prohibiting the retirement of a professor because of physical disability with less than 15 years’ service is changed to have application only during the temporary appointment of a professor.

This section provides for the retirement of associate professors, assistant professors, and commissioned instructors in addition to professors. It is believed that the provision of existing law requiring 15 years’ service before becoming eligible for retirement, discriminated against this group of officers as no other group was discriminated against, and should be eliminated. It was changed so that these officers would be ineligible for retirement during their probationary term only.

Changes were made in phraseology. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 2149” for “section 288” and “section 2150” for “section 289”.

[Pub. L. 115–282, § 110(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s110/b), renumbered [section 190 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s190) as this section.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–278](/us/pl/91/278) permitted permanent teachers to retire at sixty-four rather than at sixty-two unless earlier retired or separated.

1966—[Pub. L. 89–444](/us/pl/89/444) authorized the Secretary to retire any member of the permanent commissioned teaching staff who has completed thirty years’ active service.

1963—[Pub. L. 88–130](/us/pl/88/130) inserted “or discharge”, excepted staff members from retirement from active service under [section 288 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s288), and from the provisions of [section 289 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s289), and struck out “permanent” before “commissioned officers”.

1960—[Pub. L. 86–474](/us/pl/86/474) substituted “civilian member of the teaching staff” for “civilian instructor or civilian librarian”, and struck out “commissioned” in three places before “instructors” and “instructor”, respectively.
