---
title: "§ 2770. Special instruction at universities"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2770"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2770"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 531](/us/stat/63/531), § 470; renumbered § 2770, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 116(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s116/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/132/4226).)"
---
# § 2770. Special instruction at universities

##### § 2770. Special instruction at universities

Coast Guard personnel may be assigned for special instruction at private or state colleges or universities, and their expenses, including tuition, books, laboratory equipment and fees, and school supplies, may be defrayed by the Coast Guard.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 531](/us/stat/63/531), § 470; renumbered § 2770, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 116(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s116/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/132/4226).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on the following language contained in the Coast Guard appropriation act for 1949, “Pay and Allowances” and preceding years: “Not to exceed $32,200 for cost of instruction of officers at non-Federal institutions, including books, laboratory equipment and fees, school supplies, and maintenance of students;” ([June 19, 1948, ch. 558](/us/act/1948-06-19/ch558), [62 Stat. 562](/us/stat/62/562)).

The monetary limitation is removed.

Changes were made in phraseology. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 470 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s470) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Expansion of Postgraduate Opportunities for Members of Coast Guard in Medical and Related Fields

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIV, § 11413(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXIV/s11413/a), (b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4120](/us/stat/136/4120), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Commandant [of the Coast Guard] shall expand opportunities for members of the Coast Guard to secure postgraduate degrees in medical and related professional disciplines for the purpose of supporting Coast Guard clinics and operations. “(b) Application of Law.—Individuals who receive assistance pursuant to subsection (a) shall be subject to the service obligations required under [section 2114 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2114), United States Code.”

#### Coast Guard Graduate Maritime Operations Education

[Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 213](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s213), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 42](/us/stat/130/42), provided that: “Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 8, 2016], the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall establish an education program, for members and employees of the Coast Guard, that— “(1) offers a master’s degree in maritime operations; “(2) is relevant to the professional development of such members and employees; “(3) provides resident and distant education options, including the ability to utilize both options; and “(4) to the greatest extent practicable, is conducted using existing academic programs at an accredited public academic institution that—“(A) is located near a significant number of Coast Guard, maritime, and other Department of Homeland Security law enforcement personnel; and “(B) has an ability to simulate operations normally conducted at a command center.”
