---
title: "§ 1008. Presidential recommendations concerning adjustments and changes in pay and allowances"
identifier: "USC-T37-S1008"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section1008"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 89–132, § 2(a)](/us/pl/89/132/s2/a), Aug. 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 546](/us/stat/79/546); amended [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title VI, § 642(b)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tVI/s642/b), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 368](/us/stat/110/368).)"
---
# § 1008. Presidential recommendations concerning adjustments and changes in pay and allowances

##### § 1008. Presidential recommendations concerning adjustments and changes in pay and allowances

(a) The President shall direct an annual review of the adequacy of the pays and allowances authorized by this title for members of the uniformed services.

(b) Whenever the President considers it appropriate, but in no event later than January 1, 1967, and not less than once each four years thereafter, he shall direct a complete review of the principles and concepts of the compensation system for members of the uniformed services. Upon completion of such review he shall submit a detailed report to Congress summarizing the results of such review together with any recommendations he may have proposing changes in the statutory salary system and other elements of the compensation structure provided members of the uniformed services.

*(Added [Pub. L. 89–132, § 2(a)](/us/pl/89/132/s2/a), Aug. 21, 1965, [79 Stat. 546](/us/stat/79/546); amended [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title VI, § 642(b)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tVI/s642/b), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 368](/us/stat/110/368).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) struck out at end “Upon completion of this review, but not later than March 31 of each year, the President shall submit to Congress a detailed report summarizing the results of such annual review together with any recommendations for adjustments in the rates of pay and allowances authorized by this title.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Sept. 1, 1965, see [section 10 of Pub. L. 89–132](/us/pl/89/132/s10), set out as an Effective Date of 1965 Amendment note under [section 203 of this title](/us/usc/t37/s203).

#### Review

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title VI, § 626(b)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tVI/s626/b), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 294](/us/stat/137/294), provided that: “In each quadrennial review of military compensation conducted after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 2023] and under section 1008(b) of such title [this title], the President shall include— “(1) a review of the family separation allowance under section 427 of such title (or successor allowance); and “(2) the recommendation of the President regarding whether to increase the amount of such allowance to better compensate a member of the uniformed services for separation from family during service described in such paragraph.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Reporting Function

Memorandum of the President of the United States, June 9, 1989, 54 F.R. 25561, provided:

Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense

By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including [Section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301) of the United States Code, I authorize you to submit to the Congress the report summarizing the results of the review of the principles and concepts of the compensation system for members of the uniformed services, as required by [P.L. 89–132](/us/pl/89/132), Sec. 2(a), August 21, 1965 ([37 U.S.C. 1008(b)](/us/usc/t37/s1008/b)).

You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
