---
title: "§ 1727. National service educational awards"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1727"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1727"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–378, title II, § 208](/us/pl/91/378/tII/s208), as added [Pub. L. 103–82, title I, § 105(6)](/us/pl/103/82/tI/s105/6), Sept. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 853](/us/stat/107/853).)"
---
# § 1727. National service educational awards

##### § 1727. National service educational awards

(a) Educational benefits and awards If a participant in the Public Lands Corps or a resource assistant also serves in an approved national service position designated under subtitle C of title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 [[42 U.S.C. 12571](/us/usc/t42/s12571) et seq.], the participant or resource assistant shall be eligible for a national service educational award in the manner prescribed in subtitle D of such title [[42 U.S.C. 12601](/us/usc/t42/s12601) et seq.] upon successfully complying with the requirements for the award. The period during which the national service educational award may be used, the purposes for which the award may be used, and the amount of the award shall be determined as provided under such subtitle.

(b) Forbearance in collection of Stafford loans For purposes of [section 1078 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1078), in the case of borrowers who are either participants in the Corps or resource assistants, upon written request, a lender shall grant a borrower forbearance on such terms as are otherwise consistent with the regulations of the Secretary of Education, during periods in which the borrower is serving as such a participant or a resource assistant.

*([Pub. L. 91–378, title II, § 208](/us/pl/91/378/tII/s208), as added [Pub. L. 103–82, title I, § 105(6)](/us/pl/103/82/tI/s105/6), Sept. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 853](/us/stat/107/853).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National and Community Service Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 101–610](/us/pl/101/610), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3127](/us/stat/104/3127). Subtitles C and D of title I of the Act are classified generally to divisions C (§ 12571 et seq.) and D (§ 12601 et seq.), respectively, of subchapter I of chapter 129 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 12501 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s12501) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1993, see [section 123 of Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82/s123), set out as an Effective Date of 1993 Amendment note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1701).
