---
title: "§ 5736. Travel, transportation, and relocation expenses of certain nonappropriated fund employees"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5736"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5736"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, § 1605(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVI/s1605/a/1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2736](/us/stat/110/2736).)"
---
# § 5736. Travel, transportation, and relocation expenses of certain nonappropriated fund employees

##### § 5736. Travel, transportation, and relocation expenses of certain nonappropriated fund employees

An employee of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard described in [section 2105(c) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s2105/c) who moves, without a break in service of more than 3 days, to a position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, may be authorized travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances under the same conditions and to the same extent authorized by this subchapter for transferred employees.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, § 1605(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVI/s1605/a/1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2736](/us/stat/110/2736).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, § 1605(b)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVI/s1605/b), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2736](/us/stat/110/2736), provided that: “[Section 5736 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5736), United States Code (as added by subsection (a)(1)), shall apply to moves between positions as described in such section that are effective on or after October 1, 1996.”

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
