---
title: "§ 7920. Consultation with the Governor"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7920"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7920"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8540](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8540), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8032](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8032), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2118](/us/stat/129/2118).)"
---
# § 7920. Consultation with the Governor

##### § 7920. Consultation with the Governor

(a) In general A State educational agency shall consult in a timely and meaningful manner with the Governor, or appropriate officials from the Governor’s office, in the development of State plans under subchapters I and II and [section 7842 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7842).

(b) Timing The consultation described in subsection (a) shall include meetings of officials from the State educational agency and the Governor’s office and shall occur—

(1) during the development of such plan; and

(2) prior to submission of the plan to the Secretary.

(c) Joint signature authority A Governor shall have 30 days prior to the State educational agency submitting the State plan under subchapter I or II or [section 7842 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7842) to the Secretary to sign such plan. If the Governor has not signed the plan within 30 days of delivery by the State educational agency to the Governor, the State educational agency shall submit the plan to the Secretary without such signature.

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8540](/us/pl/89/10/tVIII/s8540), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title VIII, § 8032](/us/pl/114/95/tVIII/s8032), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2118](/us/stat/129/2118).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
