---
title: "§ 296e–1. Grants for health professions education"
identifier: "USC-T42-S296e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section296e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VIII, § 807, as added [Pub. L. 106–525, title IV, § 401(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/525/tIV/s401/b/2), Nov. 22, 2000, [114 Stat. 2508](/us/stat/114/2508); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5307(b)](/us/pl/111/148/tV/s5307/b), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 628](/us/stat/124/628).)"
---
# § 296e–1. Grants for health professions education

##### § 296e–1. Grants for health professions education

(a) Cultural competency, prevention, and public health and individuals with disability grants The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, may make awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to eligible entities for the development, evaluation, and dissemination of research, demonstration projects, and model curricula for cultural competency, prevention, public health proficiency, reducing health disparities, and aptitude for working with individuals with disabilities training for use in health professions schools and continuing education programs, and for other purposes determined as appropriate by the Secretary. Grants under this section shall be the same as provided in [section 293e of this title](/us/usc/t42/s293e).

(b) Collaboration In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall collaborate with the entities described in [section 293e(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s293e/b). The Secretary shall coordinate with curricula and research and demonstration projects developed under such section 293e.

(c) Dissemination Model curricula developed under this section shall be disseminated and evaluated in the same manner as model curricula developed under [section 293e of this title](/us/usc/t42/s293e), as described in subsection (c) of such section.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2015.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VIII, § 807, as added [Pub. L. 106–525, title IV, § 401(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/525/tIV/s401/b/2), Nov. 22, 2000, [114 Stat. 2508](/us/stat/114/2508); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5307(b)](/us/pl/111/148/tV/s5307/b), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 628](/us/stat/124/628).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 807 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 808 by [Pub. L. 106–525](/us/pl/106/525) and is classified to [section 296f of this title](/us/usc/t42/s296f).

Another prior section 807 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 811 and classified to [section 296f of this title](/us/usc/t42/s296f) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 99–92, § 9(a)(1)](/us/pl/99/92/s9/a/1), Aug. 16, 1985, [99 Stat. 400](/us/stat/99/400).

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–148, § 5307(b)(1)](/us/pl/111/148/s5307/b/1), in heading, substituted “Cultural competency, prevention, and public health and individuals with disability grants” for “Grants for health professions education in health disparities and cultural competency” and, in text, substituted “for the development, evaluation, and dissemination of research, demonstration projects, and model curricula for cultural competency, prevention, public health proficiency, reducing health disparities, and aptitude for working with individuals with disabilities training for use in health professions schools and continuing education programs, and for other purposes determined as appropriate by the Secretary” for “for the purpose of carrying out research and demonstration projects (including research and demonstration projects for continuing health professions education) for training and education for the reduction of disparities in health care outcomes and the provision of culturally competent health care”.

Subsecs. (b) to (d). [Pub. L. 111–148, § 5307(b)(2)](/us/pl/111/148/s5307/b/2)–(4), added subsecs. (b) and (c), redesignated former subsec. (b) as (d), and, in subsec. (d), substituted “this section” for “subsection (a) of this section” and “2010 through 2015” for “2001 through 2004”.
