---
title: "§ 1870a. Buy-American requirements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1870a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1870a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–570, title I, § 111](/us/pl/100/570/tI/s111), Oct. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 2869](/us/stat/102/2869).)"
---
# § 1870a. Buy-American requirements

##### § 1870a. Buy-American requirements

(a) Award of contracts The Director shall, to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with current law, award to domestic firms any contracts for the purchase of goods and services intended for direct use by the Foundation.

(b) Report The Director shall, as soon as possible after October 31, 1988, prepare a report on—

Such report shall be submitted to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Labor and Human Resources and Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

(1) the number of Foundation contracts entered into with foreign firms in fiscal year 1988;

(2) the number of such contracts entered into with domestic firms in that fiscal year;

(3) the number of contracts entered into with foreign firms where the Foundation also received a technically acceptable bid from a domestic firm; and

(4) any steps the Foundation will take to increase the number of contracts awarded to domestic firms.

(c) Definitions For the purposes of this section—

(1) the term “domestic firm” means a business entity which is organized under the laws of the United States or the laws of a State, district, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and which conducts business operations in the United States; and

(2) the term “foreign firm” means a business entity not described in paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 100–570, title I, § 111](/us/pl/100/570/tI/s111), Oct. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 2869](/us/stat/102/2869).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1988, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.
