---
title: "§ 5507. Transportation workforce outreach program"
identifier: "USC-T49-S5507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section5507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title V, § 25020(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tV/s25020/c/1), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 877](/us/stat/135/877).)"
---
# § 5507. Transportation workforce outreach program

##### § 5507. Transportation workforce outreach program

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) shall establish and administer a transportation workforce outreach program, under which the Secretary shall carry out a series of public service announcement campaigns during each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

(b) Purposes.— The purpose of the campaigns carried out under the program under this section shall be—

(1) to increase awareness of career opportunities in the transportation sector, including aviation pilots, safety inspectors, mechanics and technicians, air traffic controllers, flight attendants, truck and bus drivers, engineers, transit workers, railroad workers, and other transportation professionals; and

(2) to target awareness of professional opportunities in the transportation sector to diverse segments of the population, including with respect to race, sex, ethnicity, ability (including physical and mental ability), veteran status, and socioeconomic status.

(c) Advertising.— The Secretary may use, or authorize the use of, amounts made available to carry out the program under this section for the development, production, and use of broadcast, digital, and print media advertising and outreach in carrying out a campaign under this section.

(d) Funding.— The Secretary may use to carry out this section any amounts otherwise made available to the Secretary, not to exceed $5,000,000, for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title V, § 25020(c)(1)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tV/s25020/c/1), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 877](/us/stat/135/877).)*
