---
title: "§ 4347. Training with respect to the enforcement of intellectual property rights"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4347"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4347"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–125, title III, § 308](/us/pl/114/125/tIII/s308), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 153](/us/stat/130/153).)"
---
# § 4347. Training with respect to the enforcement of intellectual property rights

##### § 4347. Training with respect to the enforcement of intellectual property rights

(a) Training The Commissioner shall ensure that officers of U.S. Customs and Border Protection are trained to effectively detect and identify merchandise destined for the United States that infringes intellectual property rights, including through the use of technologies identified under subsection (c).

(b) Consultation with private sector The Commissioner shall consult with private sector entities to better identify opportunities for collaboration between U.S. Customs and Border Protection and such entities with respect to training for officers of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in enforcing intellectual property rights.

(c) Identification of new technologies In consultation with private sector entities, the Commissioner shall identify—

(1) technologies with the cost-effective capability to detect and identify merchandise at United States ports of entry that infringes intellectual property rights; and

(2) cost-effective programs for training officers of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to use such technologies.

(d) Donations of technology Not later than the date that is 180 days after February 24, 2016, the Commissioner shall prescribe regulations to enable U.S. Customs and Border Protection to receive donations of hardware, software, equipment, and similar technologies, and to accept training and other support services, from private sector entities, for the purpose of enforcing intellectual property rights.

*([Pub. L. 114–125, title III, § 308](/us/pl/114/125/tIII/s308), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 153](/us/stat/130/153).)*
