---
title: "§ 3782. Transfers and cross-servicing between agencies"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3782"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3782"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1502](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1502), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 488](/us/stat/93/488).)"
---
# § 3782. Transfers and cross-servicing between agencies

##### § 3782. Transfers and cross-servicing between agencies

(a) Transfers of facilities, buildings, structures, improvements, stocks and equipment located in the Republic of Panama In the interest of economy and maximum efficiency in the utilization of property and facilities of the United States, there are authorized to be transferred between departments and agencies of the United States, with or without reimbursement, such facilities, buildings, structures, improvements, stock, and equipment located in the Republic of Panama, and used for their activities therein, as may be mutually agreed upon by the departments and agencies involved and approved by the President of the United States or his designee.

(b) Cross-servicing agreements The Commission may enter into cross-servicing agreements with any other department or agency of the United States for the use of facilities, furnishing of services, or performance of functions.

(c) Transfer of records to Government of Republic of Panama The Commission, any department or agency of the United States, or any United States court in the Republic of Panama is authorized to transfer to the Government of the Republic of Panama any record of such Commission, department, agency, or court, or copy thereof, including any record acquired from the Canal Zone Government or Panama Canal Company (including any vital statistics record), to any other department, agency, or court of the United States if such action is determined by the Commission, the head of the department or agency concerned, or the judge of the court concerned to be in the interest of the United States. Transfer of any record or copy thereof under this section to the Government of the Republic of Panama shall be made under the coordination of and with the approval of the United States Ambassador to the Republic of Panama.

(d) Applicability to Smithsonian Institution The provisions of this section shall apply to the Smithsonian Institution.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1502](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1502), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 488](/us/stat/93/488).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions vested in President by subsec. (a) of this section delegated to Secretary of Defense, see section 1–106 of Ex. Ord. No. 12215, May 27, 1980, 45 F.R. 36043, set out as a note under [section 3601 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3601).
