---
title: "§ 1131. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T6-S1131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title6-section1131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "6"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XIV, § 1402](/us/pl/110/53/tXIV/s1402), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 400](/us/stat/121/400).)"
---
# § 1131. Definitions

##### § 1131. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

(2) Department The term “Department” means the Department of Homeland Security.

(3) Disadvantaged businesses concerns The term “disadvantaged business concerns” means small businesses that are owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals as defined in section 11 So in original. Probably should be “part”. 124, title 13, Code of Federal Regulations.

(4) Frontline employee The term “frontline employee” means an employee of a public transportation agency who is a transit vehicle driver or operator, dispatcher, maintenance and maintenance support employee, station attendant, customer service employee, security employee, or transit police, or any other employee who has direct contact with riders on a regular basis, and any other employee of a public transportation agency that the Secretary determines should receive security training under [section 1137 of this title](/us/usc/t6/s1137).

(5) Public transportation agency The term “public transportation agency” means a publicly owned operator of public transportation eligible to receive Federal assistance under chapter 53 of title 49.

(6) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Homeland Security.

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XIV, § 1402](/us/pl/110/53/tXIV/s1402), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 400](/us/stat/121/400).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of this subchapter as the “National Transit Systems Security Act of 2007”, see [section 1401 of Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53/s1401), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t6/s1101).
