---
title: "§ 3602. Appointment of probation officers"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3602"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3602"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2001](/us/stat/98/2001); amended [Pub. L. 114–113, div. E, title III, § 307](/us/pl/114/113/dE/tIII/s307), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2443](/us/stat/129/2443).)"
---
# § 3602. Appointment of probation officers

##### § 3602. Appointment of probation officers

(a) Appointment.— A district court of the United States shall appoint qualified persons to serve, with or without compensation, as probation officers within the jurisdiction and under the direction of the court making the appointment. A person appointed as a probation officer in one district may serve in another district with the consent of the appointing court and the court in the other district. The appointing court may, for cause, remove a probation officer appointed to serve with compensation, and may, in its discretion, remove a probation officer appointed to serve without compensation.

(b) Record of Appointment.— The order of appointment shall be entered on the records of the court, a copy of the order shall be delivered to the officer appointed, and a copy shall be sent to the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

(c) Chief Probation Officer.— If the court appoints more than one probation officer, one may be designated by the court as chief probation officer and shall direct the work of all probation officers serving in the judicial district.

*(Added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 212(a)(2)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s212/a/2), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2001](/us/stat/98/2001); amended [Pub. L. 114–113, div. E, title III, § 307](/us/pl/114/113/dE/tIII/s307), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2443](/us/stat/129/2443).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–113](/us/pl/114/113) inserted “A person appointed as a probation officer in one district may serve in another district with the consent of the appointing court and the court in the other district.” after first sentence and “appointing” before “court may, for cause, remove”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Nov. 1, 1987, and applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of this section, see [section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s235/a/1), set out as a note under [section 3551 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3551).
