---
title: "§ 151704. Officers and employees"
identifier: "USC-T36-S151704"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section151704"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/112/1405).)"
---
# § 151704. Officers and employees

##### § 151704. Officers and employees

(a) Secretary of the Board.—

(1) The Librarian of Congress shall appoint a Secretary of the Board to serve as executive director of the corporation. The Librarian may remove the Secretary.

(2) The Secretary must be knowledgeable and experienced in matters relating to—

(A) film preservation and restoration activities;

(B) financial management; and

(C) fundraising.

(b) Appointment of Officers.— Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, the board of directors appoints, removes, and replaces officers of the corporation.

(c) Appointment of Employees.— Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary appoints, removes, and replaces employees of the corporation.

(d) Status and Compensation of Employees.— Employees of the corporation (including the Secretary)—

(1) are not employees of the Library of Congress;

(2) shall be appointed and removed without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service; and

(3) may be paid without regard to chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, except that an employee may not be paid more than the annual rate of basic pay for level GS–15 of the General Schedule under [section 5107 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5107).

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/112/1405).)*

In subsection (a)(1), the words “The first employee appointed shall be the Secretary of the Board” in 36:5702(g)(2)(B) are omitted as unnecessary. The words “executive director of the corporation” are substituted for “its executive director” in 36:5702(g)(2)(C)(i) for clarity.

In subsection (b), the words “the board of directors appoints, removes, and replaces officers of the corporation” are substituted for “The Board may complete the organization of the Foundation by . . . appointing, removing, and replacing officers” for clarity.

In subsection (d)(1), the words “are not employees” are substituted for “nor . . . shall be construed to be employees” in 36:5702(g)(2)(A) (last sentence related to employees) for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 151704(a) | 36:5702(g)(2)(B), (C). | Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104–285, title II, § 203(g)(1)(A), (2)(A) (1st, 2d sentences, last sentence related to employees), (B), (C), 110 Stat. 3384. |
| 151704(b) | 36:5702(g)(1)(A). |  |
| 151704(c) | 36:5702(g)(2)(A) (1st sentence). |  |
| 151704(d) | 36:5702(g)(2)(A) (2d sentence, last sentence related to employees). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (d)(3), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.
