---
title: "§ 5551. General provisions relating to bonds"
identifier: "USC-T26-S5551"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section5551"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s201), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1394](/us/stat/72/1394); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX), §§ 1905(c)(5), 1906(b)(13)(B), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1823](/us/stat/90/1823), 1834; [Pub. L. 96–39, title VIII, § 807(a)(51)](/us/pl/96/39/tVIII/s807/a/51), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 288](/us/stat/93/288); [Pub. L. 114–113, div. Q, title III, § 332(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/113/dQ/tIII/s332/b/1), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 3105](/us/"
---
# § 5551. General provisions relating to bonds

##### § 5551. General provisions relating to bonds

(a) Approval as condition to commencing business Except as provided under subsection (d), no individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association, intending to commence or to continue the business of a distiller, warehouseman, processor, brewer, or winemaker, shall commence or continue the business of a distiller, warehouseman, processor, brewer, or winemaker until all bonds in respect of such a business, required by any provision of law, have been approved by the Secretary of the Treasury or the officer designated by him.

(b) Disapproval The Secretary of the Treasury or any officer designated by him may disapprove any such bond or bonds if the individual, firm, partnership, or corporation, or association giving such bond or bonds, or owning, controlling, or actively participating in the management of the business of the individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association giving such bond or bonds, shall have been previously convicted, in a court of competent jurisdiction, of—

(1) any fraudulent noncompliance with any provision of any law of the United States, if such provision related to internal revenue or customs taxation of distilled spirits, wines, or beer, or if such an offense shall have been compromised with the individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association on payment of penalties or otherwise, or

(2) any felony under a law of any State, or the District of Columbia, or the United States, prohibiting the manufacture, sale, importation, or transportation of distilled spirits, wine, beer, or other intoxicating liquor.

(c) Appeal from disapproval In case the disapproval is by an officer designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to approve or disapprove such bonds, the individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association giving the bond may appeal from such disapproval to the Secretary of the Treasury or an officer designated by him to hear such appeals, and the disapproval of the bond by the Secretary of the Treasury or officer designated to hear such appeals shall be final.

(d) Removal of bond requirements

(1) In general During any period to which subparagraph (A) of section 5061(d)(4) applies to a taxpayer (determined after application of subparagraph (B) thereof), such taxpayer shall not be required to furnish any bond covering operations or withdrawals of distilled spirits or wines for nonindustrial use or of beer.

(2) Satisfaction of bond requirements Any taxpayer for any period described in paragraph (1) shall be treated as if sufficient bond has been furnished for purposes of covering operations and withdrawals of distilled spirits or wines for nonindustrial use or of beer for purposes of any requirements relating to bonds under this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s201), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1394](/us/stat/72/1394); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX), §§ 1905(c)(5), 1906(b)(13)(B), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1823](/us/stat/90/1823), 1834; [Pub. L. 96–39, title VIII, § 807(a)(51)](/us/pl/96/39/tVIII/s807/a/51), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 288](/us/stat/93/288); [Pub. L. 114–113, div. Q, title III, § 332(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/113/dQ/tIII/s332/b/1), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 3105](/us/stat/129/3105).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5551, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 680](/us/stat/68A/680), consisted of provisions similar to those comprising this section, prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859).

Provisions similar to those comprising subsec. (c) of this section were contained in prior section 5177(c), [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 630](/us/stat/68A/630), prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859).

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–113, § 332(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/113/s332/b/1/A), substituted “Except as provided under subsection (d), no individual” for “No individual”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 114–113, § 332(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/114/113/s332/b/1/B), added subsec. (d).

1979—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 96–39](/us/pl/96/39) substituted “warehouseman, processor” for “bonded warehouseman, rectifier” in two places.

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 1906(b)(13)(B)](/us/pl/94/455/s1906/b/13/B), substituted “Secretary of the Treasury” for “Secretary”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455), §§ 1905(c)(5), 1906(b)(13)(B), substituted “Secretary of the Treasury” for “Secretary” in provisions preceding par. (1) and struck out “Territory, or” after “State,” in par. (2).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 94–455, § 1906(b)(13)(B)](/us/pl/94/455/s1906/b/13/B), substituted “Secretary of the Treasury” for “Secretary”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–113](/us/pl/114/113) applicable to any calendar quarters beginning more than 1 year after Dec. 18, 2015, see [section 332(c) of Pub. L. 114–113](/us/pl/114/113/s332/c), set out as a note under [section 5061 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5061).

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–39](/us/pl/96/39) effective Jan. 1, 1980, see [section 810 of Pub. L. 96–39](/us/pl/96/39/s810), set out as a note under [section 5001 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5001).

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [section 1905(c)(5) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s1905/c/5) effective on first day of first month which begins more than 90 days after Oct. 4, 1976, see [section 1905(d) of Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455/s1905/d), set out as a note under [section 5005 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5005).

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1959, see [section 210(a)(1) of Pub. L. 85–859](/us/pl/85/859/s210/a/1), set out as a note under [section 5001 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5001).
