---
title: "§ 310. Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development"
identifier: "USC-T25-S310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–306, § 14](/us/pl/98/306/s14), May 31, 1984, [98 Stat. 226](/us/stat/98/226); [Pub. L. 99–498, title XV, § 1514(c)](/us/pl/99/498/tXV/s1514/c), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1608](/us/stat/100/1608).)"
---
# § 310. Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development

##### § 310. Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development

(a)

(1) To the extent of the availability of funds for such purpose, the Secretary of the Interior shall:

(A) enter into a thirty-year agreement with the College of Santa Fe, Santa Fe, New Mexico, to provide educational facilities for the use of, and to develop cooperative educational/arts programs to be carried out with the postsecondary fine arts and museum services programs of, the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs; and

(B) conduct such activities as are necessary to improve the facilities used by the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development at the College of Santa Fe.

(2) The provisions of this subsection shall take effect on October 1, 1984.

(b)

(1) The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, is directed to conduct a study for the purpose of determining the need, if any, for a museum facility to be established for the benefit of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development, the feasibility of establishing such museum, and the need or desirability, if any, to establish any such museum in close proximity to the facilities currently being used by such Institute at the College of Santa Fe.

(2) On or before February 1, 1985, the Secretary of the Interior shall report the results of such study, together with his recommendations, to the Congress.

(3) Should the study recommend establishment of a museum, and should the College of Santa Fe be selected as the best site, any agreement entered into by the Secretary of the Interior for construction of such museum shall contain assurances, satisfactory to the Secretary, that appropriate lands at the College of Santa Fe will be available at no cost to the Federal Government for the establishment of a museum facility.

*([Pub. L. 98–306, § 14](/us/pl/98/306/s14), May 31, 1984, [98 Stat. 226](/us/stat/98/226); [Pub. L. 99–498, title XV, § 1514(c)](/us/pl/99/498/tXV/s1514/c), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1608](/us/stat/100/1608).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1986—Subsecs. (a)(1), (b)(1). [Pub. L. 99–498](/us/pl/99/498) substituted “Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development” for “Institute of American Indian Arts” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

[Pub. L. 99–498, title XV, § 1514(f)](/us/pl/99/498/tXV/s1514/f), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1608](/us/stat/100/1608), provided that amendment made by [Pub. L. 99–498](/us/pl/99/498) is effective Oct. 1, 1986.
