---
title: "§ 467f–1. Lock and dam security"
identifier: "USC-T33-S467f–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section467f–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–114, title V, § 5024](/us/pl/110/114/tV/s5024), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1203](/us/stat/121/1203).)"
---
# § 467f–1. Lock and dam security

##### § 467f–1. Lock and dam security

(a) Standards The Secretary, in consultation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Tennessee Valley Authority, and the Coast Guard, shall develop standards for the security of locks and dams, including the testing and certification of vessel exclusion barriers.

(b) Site surveys At the request of a lock or dam owner, the Secretary shall provide technical assistance, on a reimbursable basis, to improve lock or dam security.

(c) Cooperative agreement The Secretary may enter into a cooperative agreement with a nonprofit alliance of public and private organizations that has the mission of promoting safe waterways and seaports to carry out testing and certification activities, and to perform site surveys, under this section.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 110–114, title V, § 5024](/us/pl/110/114/tV/s5024), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1203](/us/stat/121/1203).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007, and not as part of the National Dam Safety Program Act which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 110–114](/us/pl/110/114/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
