---
title: "§ 4511. Investigations; power to subpena and take oaths and affirmations; aid of courts"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–180, title I, § 120](/us/pl/98/180/tI/s120), Nov. 29, 1983, [97 Stat. 1143](/us/stat/97/1143).)"
---
# § 4511. Investigations; power to subpena and take oaths and affirmations; aid of courts

##### § 4511. Investigations; power to subpena and take oaths and affirmations; aid of courts

The Secretary may make such investigations as the Secretary deems necessary for the effective administration of this subchapter or to determine whether any person subject to the provisions of this subchapter has engaged or is about to engage in any act that constitutes or will constitute a violation of any provision of this subchapter or of any order, or rule or regulation issued under this subchapter. For the purpose of such investigation, the Secretary may administer oaths and affirmations, subpena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any records that are relevant to the inquiry. Such attendance of witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any place in the United States. In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpena to, any person, the Secretary may invoke the aid of any court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of records. The court may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Secretary to produce records or to give testimony touching the matter under investigation. Any failure to obey such order of the court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. Process in any such case may be served in the judicial district in which such person is an inhabitant or wherever such person may be found.

*([Pub. L. 98–180, title I, § 120](/us/pl/98/180/tI/s120), Nov. 29, 1983, [97 Stat. 1143](/us/stat/97/1143).)*
