---
title: "§ 1692m. Reports to Congress by the Bureau; views of other Federal agencies"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1692m"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1692m"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–321, title VIII, § 815](/us/pl/90/321/tVIII/s815), as added [Pub. L. 95–109](/us/pl/95/109), Sept. 20, 1977, [91 Stat. 882](/us/stat/91/882); amended [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1089(1)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1089/1), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/124/2092).)"
---
# § 1692m. Reports to Congress by the Bureau; views of other Federal agencies

##### § 1692m. Reports to Congress by the Bureau; views of other Federal agencies

(a) Not later than one year after the effective date of this subchapter and at one-year intervals thereafter, the Bureau shall make reports to the Congress concerning the administration of its functions under this subchapter, including such recommendations as the Bureau deems necessary or appropriate. In addition, each report of the Bureau shall include its assessment of the extent to which compliance with this subchapter is being achieved and a summary of the enforcement actions taken by the Bureau under section 1692*l* of this title.

(b) In the exercise of its functions under this subchapter, the Bureau may obtain upon request the views of any other Federal agency which exercises enforcement functions under section 1692*l* of this title.

*([Pub. L. 90–321, title VIII, § 815](/us/pl/90/321/tVIII/s815), as added [Pub. L. 95–109](/us/pl/95/109), Sept. 20, 1977, [91 Stat. 882](/us/stat/91/882); amended [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1089(1)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1089/1), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/124/2092).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The effective date of this subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date occurring on expiration of six months after Sept. 20, 1977. See [section 819 of Pub. L. 90–321](/us/pl/90/321/s819), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1692 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1692).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) substituted “Bureau” for “Commission” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the designated transfer date, see [section 1100H of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1100H), set out as a note under [section 552a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon the expiration of six months after Sept. 20, 1977, see [section 819 of Pub. L. 90–321](/us/pl/90/321/s819), as added by [Pub. L. 95–109](/us/pl/95/109), set out as a note under [section 1692 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1692).
