---
title: "§ 17389. Technology demonstration on the distribution grid"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17389"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17389"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VIII, § 8007](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVIII/s8007), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2586](/us/stat/134/2586).)"
---
# § 17389. Technology demonstration on the distribution grid

##### § 17389. Technology demonstration on the distribution grid

(a) In general The Secretary shall establish a grant program to carry out eligible projects related to the modernization of the electric grid, including the application of technologies to improve observability, advanced controls, and prediction of system performance on the distribution system.

(b) Eligible projects To be eligible for a grant under subsection (a), a project shall—

(1) be designed to improve the performance and efficiency of the future electric grid, while ensuring the continued provision of safe, secure, reliable, and affordable power; and

(2) demonstrate—

(A) secure integration and management of two or more energy resources, including distributed energy generation, combined heat and power, micro-grids, energy storage, electric vehicles, energy efficiency, demand response, and intelligent loads; and

(B) secure integration and interoperability of communications and information technologies.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VIII, § 8007](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVIII/s8007), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2586](/us/stat/134/2586).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy Act of 2020, and not as part of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Application

Provisions of [section 3212 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3212) applicable to construction, alteration, or repair work of demonstration projects funded by grants or contracts authorized under this section, see [section 9006(b) of div. Z of Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/s9006/b), set out as a note under [section 16237 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16237).
