---
title: "§ 60130. Pipeline safety information grants to communities"
identifier: "USC-T49-S60130"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section60130"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–355, § 9(a)](/us/pl/107/355/s9/a), Dec. 17, 2002, [116 Stat. 2994](/us/stat/116/2994); amended [Pub. L. 109–468, § 5](/us/pl/109/468/s5), Dec. 29, 2006, [120 Stat. 3490](/us/stat/120/3490); [Pub. L. 112–90, § 32(e)](/us/pl/112/90/s32/e), Jan. 3, 2012, [125 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/125/1923); [Pub. L. 113–188, title XV, § 1501(c)](/us/pl/113/188/tXV/s1501/c), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2024](/us/stat/128/2024); [Pub. L. 114–183](/us/pl/114/183), §§ 2(d), 20(a), June 22, 2016, [130 "
---
# § 60130. Pipeline safety information grants to communities

##### § 60130. Pipeline safety information grants to communities

(a) Grant Authority.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary of Transportation may make grants for technical assistance to local communities, Indian Tribes, and groups of individuals (not including for-profit entities) relating to the safety of pipeline facilities in local communities, other than facilities regulated under [Public Law 93–153](/us/pl/93/153) ([43 U.S.C. 1651](/us/usc/t43/s1651) et seq.). No grants may be awarded under section 60114(g) until the Secretary has established competitive procedures for awarding grants under this section and criteria for selecting grant recipients. Except as provided in subsection (c)(2), the amount of any grant under this section may not exceed $100,000 for a single grant recipient. The Secretary shall establish appropriate procedures to ensure the proper use of funds provided under this section.

(2) Demonstration grants.— At least the first 3 grants awarded under this section shall be demonstration grants for the purpose of demonstrating and evaluating the utility of grants under this section. Each such demonstration grant shall not exceed $25,000.

(3) Dissemination of technical findings.— Each recipient of a grant under this section shall ensure that—

(A) the technical findings made possible by the grants are made available to the relevant operators; and

(B) open communication between the grant recipients, local operators, local communities, and other interested parties is encouraged.

(b) Prohibited Uses.— Funds provided under this section to grant recipients and their contractors may not be used for lobbying, for direct advocacy for or against a pipeline construction or expansion project, or in direct support of litigation.

(c) Funding.—

(1) In general.— Subject to paragraph (2), out of amounts made available under section 2(b) of the PIPES Act of 2016 ([Public Law 114–183](/us/pl/114/183); [130 Stat. 515](/us/stat/130/515)), the Secretary shall use $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2023 to carry out this section.

(2) Improving technical assistance.— From the amounts used to carry out this section under paragraph (1) each fiscal year, the Secretary shall award $1,000,000 to an eligible applicant through a competitive selection process for the purpose of improving the quality of technical assistance provided to communities or individuals under this section.

(3) Limitation.— Any amounts used to carry out this section shall not be derived from user fees collected under section 60301.

(d) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Technical assistance.— The term “technical assistance” means engineering, research, and other scientific analysis of pipeline safety issues, including the promotion of public participation on technical pipeline safety issues in proceedings related to this chapter.

(2) Eligible applicant.— The term “eligible applicant” means a nonprofit entity that—

(A) is a public safety advocate;

(B) has pipeline safety expertise;

(C) is able to provide individuals and communities with technical assistance; and

(D) was established with funds designated for the purpose of community service through the implementation of [section 3553 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3553) relating to violations of this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–355, § 9(a)](/us/pl/107/355/s9/a), Dec. 17, 2002, [116 Stat. 2994](/us/stat/116/2994); amended [Pub. L. 109–468, § 5](/us/pl/109/468/s5), Dec. 29, 2006, [120 Stat. 3490](/us/stat/120/3490); [Pub. L. 112–90, § 32(e)](/us/pl/112/90/s32/e), Jan. 3, 2012, [125 Stat. 1923](/us/stat/125/1923); [Pub. L. 113–188, title XV, § 1501(c)](/us/pl/113/188/tXV/s1501/c), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2024](/us/stat/128/2024); [Pub. L. 114–183](/us/pl/114/183), §§ 2(d), 20(a), June 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 516](/us/stat/130/516), 527; [Pub. L. 116–260, div. R, title I, § 101(e)](/us/pl/116/260/dR/tI/s101/e), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2213](/us/stat/134/2213).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Public Law 93–153](/us/pl/93/153), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is [Pub. L. 93–153](/us/pl/93/153), Nov. 16, 1973, [87 Stat. 576](/us/stat/87/576). Title II of the Act, known as the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act, is classified generally to chapter 34 (§ 1651 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1651 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1651) and Tables.

Section 2(b) of the PIPES Act of 2016, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is [section 2(b) of Pub. L. 114–183](/us/pl/114/183/s2/b), June 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 515](/us/stat/130/515), which is not classified to the Code.

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 101(e)(1)(A)](/us/pl/116/260/s101/e/1/A), substituted “to local communities, Indian Tribes, and groups of individuals (not including for-profit entities)” for “to local communities and groups of individuals (not including for-profit entities)” in first sentence and “Except as provided in subsection (c)(2), the amount” for “The amount” in third sentence.

Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 101(e)(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/260/s101/e/1/B), struck out par. (4). Text read as follows: “In this subsection, the term ‘technical assistance’ means engineering and other scientific analysis of pipeline safety issues, including the promotion of public participation on technical pipeline safety issues in official proceedings conducted under this chapter.”

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 101(e)(2)](/us/pl/116/260/s101/e/2), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Of the amounts made available under section 2(b) of the PIPES Act of 2016, the Secretary shall expend $1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019 to carry out this section. Such amounts shall not be derived from user fees collected under section 60301.”

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 101(e)(3)](/us/pl/116/260/s101/e/3), added subsec. (d).

2016—Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 114–183, § 20(a)](/us/pl/114/183/s20/a), inserted “on technical pipeline safety issues” after “public participation”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–183, § 2(d)](/us/pl/114/183/s2/d), substituted “Of the amounts made available under section 2(b) of the PIPES Act of 2016, the Secretary shall expend $1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019 to carry out this section.” for “There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for carrying out this section $1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2015.”

2014—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 113–188](/us/pl/113/188) redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and struck out former subsec. (c) which required annual reports on grants made under this section.

2012—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 112–90, § 32(e)(1)](/us/pl/112/90/s32/e/1), substituted “$100,000” for “$50,000”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–90, § 32(e)(2)](/us/pl/112/90/s32/e/2), inserted “to grant recipients and their contractors” after “this section” and “, for direct advocacy for or against a pipeline construction or expansion project,” after “for lobbying”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 112–90, § 32(e)(3)](/us/pl/112/90/s32/e/3), substituted “$1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2015” for “$1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2010”.

2006—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 109–468, § 5(1)](/us/pl/109/468/s5/1), substituted “No grants may be awarded under section 60114(g) until the Secretary has established competitive” for “The Secretary shall establish competitive”.

Subsec. (a)(2) to (4). [Pub. L. 109–468, § 5(2)](/us/pl/109/468/s5/2), (3), added pars. (2) and (3) and redesignated former par. (2) as (4).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–468, § 5(4)](/us/pl/109/468/s5/4), substituted “2010” for “2006”.
