---
title: "§ 290bb–33. Student suicide awareness and prevention training"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290bb–33"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290bb–33"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 520B, as added [Pub. L. 117–100, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/100/s2/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 44](/us/stat/136/44).)"
---
# § 290bb–33. Student suicide awareness and prevention training

##### § 290bb–33. Student suicide awareness and prevention training

(a) In general In awarding funds under [section 290bb–32 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–32), the Secretary shall give priority to applications under such section from a State educational agency, local educational agency, or Tribal educational agency, submitted directly or through a State or Indian Tribe, for funding for activities in secondary schools, where such agency has implemented, or includes in such application a plan to implement, a student suicide awareness and prevention training policy, which may include applicable youth suicide early intervention and prevention strategies implemented through [section 290bb–36 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–36)—

(1) establishing and implementing a school-based student suicide awareness and prevention training policy in accordance with subsection (c);

(2) consulting with stakeholders (including principals, teachers, parents, local Tribal officials, and other relevant experts) and, as appropriate, utilizing information, models, and other resources made available by the Suicide Prevention Technical Assistance Center authorized under [section 290bb–34 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–34) in the development of the policy under paragraph (1); and

(3) collecting and reporting information in accordance with subsection (d).

(b) Consideration In giving priority to applicants as described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall, as appropriate, take into consideration the incidence and prevalence of suicide in the applicable jurisdiction and the costs of establishing and implementing, as applicable, a school-based student suicide awareness and prevention training policy.

(c) School-based student suicide awareness and prevention training policy A school-based student suicide awareness and prevention training policy implemented pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall—

(1) be evidence-based;

(2) be culturally- and linguistically-appropriate;

(3) provide evidence-based training to students in grades 6 through 12, in coordination with school-based mental health resources, as applicable, regarding—

(A) suicide prevention education and awareness, including associated risk factors;

(B) methods that students can use to seek help; and

(C) student resources for suicide awareness and prevention; and

(4) provide for periodic retraining of such students.

(d) Collection of information and reporting Each State educational agency, local educational agency, and Tribal educational agency that receives priority to implement a new training policy pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall report to the Secretary the following aggregated information, in a manner that protects personal privacy, consistent with applicable Federal and State privacy laws:

(1) The number of trainings conducted, including the number of student trainings conducted, and the training delivery method used.

(2) The number of students trained, disaggregated by age and grade level.

(3) The number of help-seeking reports made by students after implementation of such policy.

(e) Evidence-based program availability The Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of the Interior to—

(1) make publicly available the policies established by State educational agencies, local educational agencies, and Tribal educational agencies pursuant to this section and the training that is available to students and teams pursuant to such policies, in accordance with [section 290dd–2a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290dd–2a); and

(2) provide technical assistance and disseminate best practices on student suicide awareness and prevention training policies, including through the Suicide Prevention Technical Assistance Center authorized under [section 290bb–34 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–34), as applicable, to State educational agencies, local educational agencies, and Tribal agencies.

(f) Implementation Not later than September 30, 2024, the Secretary shall report to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives the number of recipients of funds under [section 290bb–32 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–32) who have implemented training policies described in subsection (a)(1) and a summary of the information received under subsection (d).

(g) Definitions In this section:

(1) The term “evidence-based” has the meaning given such term in [section 7801 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s7801).

(2) The term “local educational agency” has the meaning given to such term in [section 7801 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s7801).

(3) The term “State educational agency” has the meaning given to such term in [section 7801 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s7801).

(4) The term “Tribal educational agency” has the meaning given to the term “tribal educational agency” in [section 7452 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s7452).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 520B, as added [Pub. L. 117–100, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/100/s2/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 44](/us/stat/136/44).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 290bb–33, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 520B](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tV/s520B), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10410(b)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10410/b), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 984](/us/stat/124/984), related to national centers of excellence for depression, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title IX, § 9017](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tIX/s9017), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/130/1248).

Another prior section 290bb–33, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 520B](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tV/s520B), formerly title XXIV, § 2441, as added [Pub. L. 100–607, title II, § 211](/us/pl/100/607/tII/s211), Nov. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 3092](/us/stat/102/3092); renumbered title V, § 520B, and amended [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 118(a)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s118/a), (b)(2), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 348](/us/stat/106/348), 349, related to demonstration projects for individuals with positive test results, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3201(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXII/s3201/b/2), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1190](/us/stat/114/1190).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 117–100, § 3](/us/pl/117/100/s3), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 46](/us/stat/136/46), provided that: “The amendment made by this Act [enacting this section] shall apply only with respect to applications for assistance under section 520A of the Public Health Service Act ([42 U.S.C. 290bb–32](/us/usc/t42/s290bb–32)) that are submitted after the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 15, 2022].”
