---
title: "§ 300u–8. Biennial report regarding nutrition and health"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300u–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300u–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XVII, § 1709, as added [Pub. L. 103–183, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/103/183/tVII/s704), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2240](/us/stat/107/2240).)"
---
# § 300u–8. Biennial report regarding nutrition and health

##### § 300u–8. Biennial report regarding nutrition and health

(a) Biennial report The Secretary shall require the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service to prepare biennial reports on the relationship between nutrition and health. Such reports may, with respect to such relationship, include any recommendations of the Secretary and the Surgeon General.

(b) Submission to Congress The Secretary shall ensure that, not later than February 1 of 1995 and of every second year thereafter, a report under subsection (a) is submitted to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XVII, § 1709, as added [Pub. L. 103–183, title VII, § 704](/us/pl/103/183/tVII/s704), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2240](/us/stat/107/2240).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 300u–8, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XVII, § 1709](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tXVII/s1709), as added Nov. 10, 1978, [Pub. L. 95–626, title V, § 502](/us/pl/95/626/tV/s502), [92 Stat. 3594](/us/stat/92/3594), related to establishment of national program on sports medicine research, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 98–551, § 2(c)](/us/pl/98/551/s2/c), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2816](/us/stat/98/2816).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.

Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.
