---
title: "§ 1441. State and Local Implementation Fund"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1441"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1441"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6301](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6301), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 218](/us/stat/126/218).)"
---
# § 1441. State and Local Implementation Fund

##### § 1441. State and Local Implementation Fund

(a) Establishment There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the State and Local Implementation Fund.

(b) Amounts available for State and Local Implementation Grant Program Any amounts borrowed under subsection (c)(1) and any amounts in the State and Local Implementation Fund that are not necessary to reimburse the general fund of the Treasury for such borrowed amounts shall be available to the Assistant Secretary to implement [section 1442 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1442).

(c) Borrowing authority

(1) In general Prior to the end of fiscal year 2022, the Assistant Secretary may borrow from the general fund of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary, but not to exceed $135,000,000, to implement [section 1442 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1442).

(2) Reimbursement The Assistant Secretary shall reimburse the general fund of the Treasury, without interest, for any amounts borrowed under paragraph (1) as funds are deposited into the State and Local Implementation Fund.

(d) Transfer of unused funds If there is a balance remaining in the State and Local Implementation Fund on September 30, 2022, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer such balance to the general fund of the Treasury, where such balance shall be dedicated for the sole purpose of deficit reduction.

*([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6301](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6301), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 218](/us/stat/126/218).)*
