---
title: "§ 5238. Study on mark-to-market accounting"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5238"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5238"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–343, div. A, title I, § 133](/us/pl/110/343/dA/tI/s133), Oct. 3, 2008, [122 Stat. 3798](/us/stat/122/3798).)"
---
# § 5238. Study on mark-to-market accounting

##### § 5238. Study on mark-to-market accounting

(a) Study The Securities and Exchange Commission, in consultation with the Board and the Secretary, shall conduct a study on mark-to-market accounting standards as provided in Statement Number 157 of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, as such standards are applicable to financial institutions, including depository institutions. Such a study shall consider at a minimum—

(1) the effects of such accounting standards on a financial institution’s balance sheet;

(2) the impacts of such accounting on bank failures in 2008;

(3) the impact of such standards on the quality of financial information available to investors;

(4) the process used by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in developing accounting standards;

(5) the advisability and feasibility of modifications to such standards; and

(6) alternative accounting standards to those provided in such Statement Number 157.

(b) Report The Securities and Exchange Commission shall submit to Congress a report of such study before the end of the 90-day period beginning on October 3, 2008, containing the findings and determinations of the Commission, including such administrative and legislative recommendations as the Commission determines appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 110–343, div. A, title I, § 133](/us/pl/110/343/dA/tI/s133), Oct. 3, 2008, [122 Stat. 3798](/us/stat/122/3798).)*
