---
title: "§ 2103. Exemptions"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–379, § 4](/us/pl/100/379/s4), Aug. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 892](/us/stat/102/892).)"
---
# § 2103. Exemptions

##### § 2103. Exemptions

(1) the closing is of a temporary facility or the closing or layoff is the result of the completion of a particular project or undertaking, and the affected employees were hired with the understanding that their employment was limited to the duration of the facility or the project or undertaking; or

(2) the closing or layoff constitutes a strike or constitutes a lockout not intended to evade the requirements of this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall require an employer to serve written notice pursuant to [section 2102(a) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2102/a) when permanently replacing a person who is deemed to be an economic striker under the National Labor Relations Act [[29 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t29/s151) et seq.]: *Provided*, That nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to validate or invalidate any judicial or administrative ruling relating to the hiring of permanent replacements for economic strikers under the National Labor Relations Act.

*([Pub. L. 100–379, § 4](/us/pl/100/379/s4), Aug. 4, 1988, [102 Stat. 892](/us/stat/102/892).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Labor Relations Act, referred to in par. (2), is [act July 5, 1935, ch. 372](/us/act/1935-07-05/ch372), [49 Stat. 452](/us/stat/49/452), which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 151 et seq.) of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 167 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s167) and Tables.

#### Effective Date

Section effective 6 months after Aug. 4, 1988, see [section 11 of Pub. L. 100–379](/us/pl/100/379/s11), set out as a note under [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s2101).
