---
title: "§ 3709. Reserve student aviation pilots; Reserve aviation pilots; appointments in commissioned grade"
identifier: "USC-T14-S3709"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section3709"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–322, § 1](/us/pl/96/322/s1), Aug. 4, 1980, [94 Stat. 1005](/us/stat/94/1005), § 709; renumbered § 3709, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 118(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s118/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4233](/us/stat/132/4233).)"
---
# § 3709. Reserve student aviation pilots; Reserve aviation pilots; appointments in commissioned grade

##### § 3709. Reserve student aviation pilots; Reserve aviation pilots; appointments in commissioned grade

(a) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary an enlisted member of the Reserve may be designated as a student aviation pilot.

(b) A member who is not a qualified aviator may not be designated as a student aviation pilot unless the member agrees in writing to serve on active duty for a period of two years after successful completion of flight training, unless sooner released. A student aviation pilot may be released from active duty or discharged at any time as provided for in the regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

(c) A student aviation pilot who is a qualified civilian aviator may be given a brief refresher course in flight training.

(d) A student aviation pilot undergoing flight training is entitled to have uniforms and equipment provided at Government expense.

(e) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, a student aviation pilot may be designated an aviation pilot upon the successful completion of flight training.

(f) In time of peace, an aviation pilot obligated under subsection (b) to serve on active duty for two years may serve for an additional period of not more than two years.

(g) An aviation pilot may be released from active duty or discharged at any time as provided for in the regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

(h) If qualified under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, an aviation pilot may be appointed as an ensign in the Reserve.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–322, § 1](/us/pl/96/322/s1), Aug. 4, 1980, [94 Stat. 1005](/us/stat/94/1005), § 709; renumbered § 3709, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 118(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s118/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4233](/us/stat/132/4233).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 758a of this title](/us/usc/t14/s758a) prior to the complete revision of former chapter 21 of this title by [Pub. L. 96–322](/us/pl/96/322).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 709 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s709) as this section.
