---
title: "§ 1901. Administration of Academy"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 508](/us/stat/63/508), § 181; renumbered § 1901, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 110(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s110/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4212](/us/stat/132/4212).)"
---
# § 1901. Administration of Academy

##### § 1901. Administration of Academy

The immediate government and military command of the Coast Guard Academy shall be in the Superintendent of the Academy, subject to the direction of the Commandant under the general supervision of the Secretary. The Commandant may select a superintendent from the active list of the Coast Guard who shall serve in the pleasure of the Commandant.

*([Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 508](/us/stat/63/508), § 181; renumbered § 1901, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 110(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s110/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4212](/us/stat/132/4212).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section does not change the present method of administration of the Academy. It makes statutory what has been administrative regulation heretofore, and it is believed highly desirable to make the control of an institution of such national interest as the Academy the subject of a statute.

This section is new. There is no provision in existing law which establishes the Academy and sets it up as an operating unit. Nor is there any provision which creates the office of Superintendent of the Academy, or prescribes his duties and functions. Heretofore this has been accomplished by regulations, and the laws which deal with the Academy assume its existence as a going institution and assume the existence of the Superintendent with certain defined functions and duties. This section continues the Academy as previously established, provides for the appointment of the Superintendent by the Commandant, and defines in general terms his functions. The Academy would thus be placed on a definite statutory basis, and the office of Superintendent would be a statutory position, but the present administration of the Academy would in no way be interfered with. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 181 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s181) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Installation of Behavioral Health and Medical Privacy Rooms

[Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7251](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7251), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1733](/us/stat/139/1733), provided that: “(a) In General.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 18, 2025], the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall install or construct at the Coast Guard Academy not fewer than 2 rooms to be used for the purpose of supporting cadet and officer candidate behavioral health and other medical or other health-related services. “(b) Standards of Rooms.—Each room installed or constructed under this section shall—“(1) be equipped—“(A) in a manner that ensures the protection of the privacy of cadets and officer candidates, consistent with law and policy; “(B) with a telephone and computer to allow for the provision of behavioral health and wellness support or other services; and “(C) with an accessible and private wireless internet connection for the use of personal communications devices at the discretion of the cadet or officer candidate concerned; and “(2) to the extent practicable and consistent with good order and discipline, be accessible to cadets and officer candidates at all times; and “(3) contain the written information described in section 7250 [of [Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60), [14 U.S.C. 1902](/us/usc/t14/s1902) note], which shall be posted in a visible location.”

#### Comptroller General Report on Safety and Security Infrastructure at Coast Guard Academy

[Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXVI, § 7608](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXVI/s7608), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1830](/us/stat/139/1830), provided that: “(a) GAO Report.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 18, 2025], the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on the safety and security infrastructure at the Coast Guard Academy. “(2) Elements.—The report required under paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of each of the following:“(A) Existing security infrastructure for the grounds, buildings, athletic facilities, and any other facility of the Coast Guard Academy, including access points, locks, surveillance, and other security methods, as appropriate. “(B) Coast Guard policies with respect to the management, data storage and access, and operational capacity of the security infrastructure and methods evaluated under subparagraph (A). “(C) Special security needs relating to events at the Coast Guard Academy, such as large athletic events and other widely attended events. “(D) Coast Guard policies and procedures with respect to access to Coast Guard Academy grounds by—“(i) current or former members of the Coast Guard; “(ii) current or former civilian employees of the Coast Guard; “(iii) Coast Guard personnel that reside at the Academy and families of cadets; and “(iv) members of the public. “(E) Existing processes by which the Commandant [of the Coast Guard], the Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy, or a designated individual may prohibit or restrict access to Coast Guard Academy grounds by any current or former member or civilian employee of the Coast Guard who—“(i) has been subject to court-martial under the Uniform Code of Military Justice [[10 U.S.C. 801](/us/usc/t10/s801) et seq.] for sexual misconduct; or “(ii) has been administratively disciplined for sexual misconduct. “(F) Enforcement processes regarding access to Coast Guard Academy grounds for individuals (including current and former cadets, members, and civilian employees of the Coast Guard) who are or have been subject to a no-contact order relating to—“(i) a cadet or member of the faculty of the Academy; or “(ii) any other individual with access to Academy grounds. “(G) Recommendations to improve—“(i) the security of the Coast Guard Academy; and “(ii) the safety of— “(I) cadets at the Coast Guard Academy; and “(II) members of the Coast Guard stationed at, and civilian employees of, the Coast Guard Academy. “(b) Actions by Commandant.—“(1) Report.—Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Comptroller General submits the report required under subsection (a), the Commandant [of the Coast Guard] shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that includes—“(A) a detailed plan to improve the security of, and the safety of cadets at, the Coast Guard Academy; and “(B) a detailed timeline for implementation of—“(i) the recommendations made by the Comptroller General in such report; and “(ii) any other safety improvement the Commandant [of the Coast Guard] considers appropriate. “(2) Policy.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Comptroller General submits the report required under subsection (a), the Commandant [of the Coast Guard], in a manner that maintains good order and discipline, shall update Coast Guard policy relating to access to the Coast Guard Academy grounds to include procedures by which individuals may be prohibited from accessing the Coast Guard Academy—“(A) as the Commandant [of the Coast Guard] considers appropriate; and “(B) consistent with the recommendations made by the Comptroller General in such report.”

#### Cadet Pregnancy Policy Improvements

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIV, § 11403](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXIV/s11403), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4109](/us/stat/136/4109), provided that: “(a) Regulations Required.—Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall prescribe regulations for the Coast Guard Academy consistent with regulations required to be promulgated by section 559(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2022 ([Public Law 117–81](/us/pl/117/81)) [probably means section 559A(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 ([Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81)), set out as a note under [section 7431 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s7431), Armed Forces]. “(b) Briefing.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a briefing on the development of the regulations required by subsection (a).”

[For definition of “Secretary” as used in [section 11403 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s11403), set out above, see [section 11002 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s11002), set out as a note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s106).]

#### Coast Guard Academy Study

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8272, Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4681](/us/stat/134/4681), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall seek to enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Public Administration not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of the [sic] this Act [Jan. 1, 2021] under which the National Academy of Public Administration shall—“(1) conduct an assessment of the cultural competence of the Coast Guard Academy as an organization and of individuals at the Coast Guard Academy to carry out effectively the primary duties of the United States Coast Guard listed in [section 102 of title 14](/us/usc/t14/s102), United States Code, when interacting with individuals of different races, ethnicities, genders, religions, sexual orientations, socioeconomic backgrounds, or from different geographic origins; and “(2) issue recommendations based upon the findings in such assessment. “(b) Assessment of Cultural Competence.—“(1) Cultural competence of the coast guard academy.—The arrangement described in subsection (a) shall require the National Academy of Public Administration to, not later than 1 year after entering into an arrangement with the Secretary under subsection (a), submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate the assessment described under subsection (a)(1). “(2) Assessment scope.—The assessment described under subsection (a)(1) shall—“(A) describe the level of cultural competence described in subsection (a)(1) based on the National Academy of Public Administration’s assessment of the Coast Guard Academy’s relevant practices, policies, and structures, including an overview of discussions with faculty, staff, students, and relevant Coast Guard Academy affiliated organizations; “(B) examine potential changes which could be used to further enhance such cultural competence by—“(i) modifying institutional practices, policies, and structures; and “(ii) any other changes deemed appropriate by the National Academy of Public Administration; and “(C) make recommendations to enhance the cultural competence of the Coast Guard Academy described in subparagraph (A), including any specific plans, policies, milestones, performance measures, or other information necessary to implement such recommendations. “(c) Final Action Memorandum.—Not later than 6 months after submission of the assessment under subsection (b)(1), the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, a final action memorandum in response to all recommendations contained in the assessment. The final action memorandum shall include the rationale for accepting, accepting in part, or rejecting each recommendation, and shall specify, where applicable, actions to be taken to implement such recommendations, including an explanation of how each action enhances the ability of the Coast Guard to carry out the primary duties of the United States Coast Guard listed in [section 102 of title 14](/us/usc/t14/s102), United States Code. “(d) Plan.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 6 months after the date of the submission of the final action memorandum required under subsection (c), the Commandant, in coordination with the Chief Human Capital Officer of the Department of Homeland Security, shall submit a plan to carry out the recommendations or the parts of the recommendations accepted in the final action memorandum to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate. “(2) Strategy with milestones.—If any recommendation or parts of recommendations accepted in the final action memorandum address any of the following actions, then the plan required in paragraph (1) shall include a strategy with appropriate milestones to carry out such recommendations or parts of recommendations:“(A) Improve outreach and recruitment of a more diverse Coast Guard Academy cadet candidate pool based on race, ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientation, socioeconomic background, and geographic origin. “(B) Modify institutional structures, practices, and policies to foster a more diverse cadet corps body, faculty, and staff workforce based on race, ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientation, socioeconomic background, and geographic origin. “(C) Modify existing or establish new policies and safeguards to foster the retention of cadets, faculty, and staff of different races, ethnicities, genders, religions, sexual orientations, socioeconomic backgrounds, and geographic origins at the Coast Guard Academy. “(D) Restructure the admissions office of the Coast Guard Academy to be headed by a civilian with significant relevant higher education recruitment experience. “(3) Implementation.—Unless otherwise directed by an Act of Congress, the Commandant shall begin implementation of the plan developed under this subsection not later than 180 days after the submission of such plan to Congress. “(4) Update.—The Commandant shall include in the first annual report required under chapter 51 of title 14, United States Code, as amended by this division, submitted after the date of enactment of this section [Jan. 1, 2021], the strategy with milestones required in paragraph (2) and shall report annually thereafter on actions taken and progress made in the implementation of such plan.”
