---
title: "§ 9408. Report on coordination of sanctions between the United States and the European Union"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9408"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9408"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–44, title I, § 109](/us/pl/115/44/tI/s109), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 895](/us/stat/131/895).)"
---
# § 9408. Report on coordination of sanctions between the United States and the European Union

##### § 9408. Report on coordination of sanctions between the United States and the European Union

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after August 2, 2017, and every 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes the following:

(1) A description of each instance, during the period specified in subsection (b)—

(A) in which the United States has imposed sanctions with respect to a person for activity related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for such weapons to or by Iran, support for acts of international terrorism by Iran, or human rights abuses in Iran, but in which the European Union has not imposed corresponding sanctions; and

(B) in which the European Union has imposed sanctions with respect to a person for activity related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for such weapons to or by Iran, support for acts of international terrorism by Iran, or human rights abuses in Iran, but in which the United States has not imposed corresponding sanctions.

(2) An explanation for the reason for each discrepancy between sanctions imposed by the European Union and sanctions imposed by the United States described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1).

(b) Period specified The period specified in this subsection is—

(1) in the case of the first report submitted under subsection (a), the period beginning on August 2, 2017, and ending on the date the report is submitted; and

(2) in the case of a subsequent such report, the 180-day period preceding the submission of the report.

(c) Form of report The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

*([Pub. L. 115–44, title I, § 109](/us/pl/115/44/tI/s109), Aug. 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 895](/us/stat/131/895).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, see section 1(b)(v) of Memorandum of President of the United States, Oct. 11, 2017, 82 F.R. 50051, set out in a note under [section 9403 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9403).
