---
title: "§ 1321. Fellowship awards"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–87, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/95/87/tIX/s901), Aug. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 529](/us/stat/91/529); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/a), title VII, §§ 703, 707, Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577), 606, 607; [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)"
---
# § 1321. Fellowship awards

##### § 1321. Fellowship awards

(a) Graduate study and research in areas of applied science and engineering relating to production, conservation, and utilization of fuels and energy The Secretary of Energy is authorized to award under the provisions of this subchapter not to exceed one thousand fellowships for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1979, and each of the five succeeding fiscal years. Fellowships shall be awarded under the provisions of this subchapter for graduate study and research in those areas of applied science and engineering that are related to the production, conservation, and utilization of fuels and energy. Fellowships shall be awarded to students in programs leading to master’s degrees. Such fellowships may be awarded for graduate study and research at any institution of higher education, library, archive, or any other research center approved by the Secretary of Energy after consultation with the Secretary of Education.

(b) Term Such fellowships shall be awarded for such periods as the Secretary of Energy may determine, but not to exceed two years.

(c) Replacement awards In addition to the number of fellowships authorized to be awarded by subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of Energy is authorized to award fellowships equal to the number previously awarded during any fiscal year under this subchapter but vacated prior to the end of the period for which they were awarded; except that each fellowship awarded under this subsection shall be for such period of graduate work or research, not in excess of the remainder of the period for which the fellowship which it replaces was awarded as the Secretary of Energy may determine.

*([Pub. L. 95–87, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/95/87/tIX/s901), Aug. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 529](/us/stat/91/529); [Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/95/91/tIII/s301/a), title VII, §§ 703, 707, Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 577](/us/stat/91/577), 606, 607; [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In subsec. (a), the words “(hereafter referred to as ‘Administrator’ in this subchapter),” which followed “Secretary of Energy” the first time it appears were omitted in view of the substitution of “Secretary of Energy” for “Administrator ERDA” and “Administrator” wherever such terms appear in this subchapter and the fact that the term “Secretary” is defined for the purposes of this chapter by [section 1291(23) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1291/23) as meaning the Secretary of the Interior. See Transfer of Functions note set out below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Energy” substituted in text for “Administrator ERDA” and “Administrator”, meaning Administrator of Energy Research and Development Administration, pursuant to sections 301(a), 703, and 707 of [Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91), which are classified to sections 7151(a), 7293, 7297 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and which terminated Energy Research and Development Administration and transferred its functions and functions of Administrator thereof (with certain exceptions) to Secretary of Energy.

“Secretary of Education” substituted for “Commissioner of Education” in subsec. (a), pursuant to sections 301(a)(1) and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441(a)(1) and 3507 of Title 20, Education, and which transferred all functions of Commissioner of Education to Secretary of Education.
