---
title: "§ 1967. Addition to Emergency Credit Revolving Fund of sums from liquidation of loans; authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1967"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1967"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 327](/us/pl/87/128/tIII/s327), Aug. 8, 1961, [75 Stat. 312](/us/stat/75/312).)"
---
# § 1967. Addition to Emergency Credit Revolving Fund of sums from liquidation of loans; authorization of appropriations

##### § 1967. Addition to Emergency Credit Revolving Fund of sums from liquidation of loans; authorization of appropriations

(a) All sums received by the Secretary from the liquidation of loans made under the provisions of this subchapter or under the Act of April 6, 1949, as amended, or the Act of August 31, 1954, and from the liquidation of any other assets acquired with money from the Emergency Credit Revolving Fund shall be added to and become a part of such fund.

(b) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Emergency Credit Revolving Fund such additional sums as the Congress shall from time to time determine to be necessary.

*([Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 327](/us/pl/87/128/tIII/s327), Aug. 8, 1961, [75 Stat. 312](/us/stat/75/312).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of April 6, 1949, as amended, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Apr. 6, 1949, ch. 49](/us/act/1949-04-06/ch49), [63 Stat. 43](/us/stat/63/43), which was classified to sections 1148a–1 to 1148a–3 of Title 12, Banks and Banking, was repealed by [section 341(a) of Pub. L. 87–128](/us/pl/87/128/s341/a), and is covered by this chapter.

Act of August 31, 1954, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1145](/us/act/1954-08-31/ch1145), [68 Stat. 999](/us/stat/68/999), which was classified as a note under [section 1148a–1 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1148a–1), was repealed by [section 341(a) of Pub. L. 87–128](/us/pl/87/128/s341/a), and is covered by this chapter.

#### Abolition of Emergency Credit Revolving Fund

The Emergency Credit Revolving Fund, referred to in this section and in [section 1966 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1966), was abolished and its assets and liabilities transferred to the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund by [section 1929 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1929).
