---
title: "§ 278g–2. Post-doctoral fellowship program"
identifier: "USC-T15-S278g–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section278g–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1901, ch. 872, § 19](/us/act/1901-03-03/ch872/s19), as added [Pub. L. 99–574, § 8(a)](/us/pl/99/574/s8/a), Oct. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 3238](/us/stat/100/3238); amended [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/a/1), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433); [Pub. L. 104–113, § 8(3)](/us/pl/104/113/s8/3), Mar. 7, 1996, [110 Stat. 779](/us/stat/110/779); [Pub. L. 110–69, title III, § 3015](/us/pl/110/69/tIII/s3015), Aug. 9, 2007, [121 Stat. 599](/us/stat/1"
---
# § 278g–2. Post-doctoral fellowship program

##### § 278g–2. Post-doctoral fellowship program

(a) In general The Institute and the National Academy of Sciences, jointly, shall establish and conduct a post-doctoral fellowship program, subject to the availability of appropriations.

(b) Organization The post-doctoral fellowship program shall include not less than 20 new fellows per fiscal year.

(c) Evaluations In evaluating applications for post-doctoral fellowships under this section, the Director of the Institute and the President of the National Academy of Sciences shall give consideration to the goal of promoting the participation of individuals identified in sections 1885a and 1885b of title 42 in research areas supported by the Institute.

*([Mar. 3, 1901, ch. 872, § 19](/us/act/1901-03-03/ch872/s19), as added [Pub. L. 99–574, § 8(a)](/us/pl/99/574/s8/a), Oct. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 3238](/us/stat/100/3238); amended [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/a/1), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433); [Pub. L. 104–113, § 8(3)](/us/pl/104/113/s8/3), Mar. 7, 1996, [110 Stat. 779](/us/stat/110/779); [Pub. L. 110–69, title III, § 3015](/us/pl/110/69/tIII/s3015), Aug. 9, 2007, [121 Stat. 599](/us/stat/121/599); [Pub. L. 111–358, title IV](/us/pl/111/358/tIV), §§ 406(b), 407(a), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4004](/us/stat/124/4004); [Pub. L. 114–329, title III, § 306(c)](/us/pl/114/329/tIII/s306/c), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 3010](/us/stat/130/3010).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 19 of [act Mar. 3, 1901, ch. 872](/us/act/1901-03-03/ch872), was renumbered section 32 and is classified to [section 278q of this title](/us/usc/t15/s278q).

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 114–329](/us/pl/114/329) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Institute shall establish and conduct a post-doctoral fellowship program, subject to the availability of appropriations, which shall be organized and carried out in substantially the same manner as the National Academy of Sciences/National Research Council Post-Doctoral Research Associate Program that was in effect prior to 1986, and which shall include not less than twenty nor more than 120 new fellows per fiscal year. In evaluating applications for fellowships under this section, the Director shall give consideration to the goal of promoting the participation of underrepresented minorities in research areas supported by the Institute.”

2011—[Pub. L. 111–358, § 407(a)](/us/pl/111/358/s407/a), struck out “, in conjunction with the National Academy of Sciences,” after “The Institute”.

[Pub. L. 111–358, § 406(b)](/us/pl/111/358/s406/b), inserted at end “In evaluating applications for fellowships under this section, the Director shall give consideration to the goal of promoting the participation of underrepresented minorities in research areas supported by the Institute.”

2007—[Pub. L. 110–69](/us/pl/110/69) substituted “nor more than 120 new fellows” for “nor more than 60 new fellows”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–113](/us/pl/104/113) inserted “, subject to the availability of appropriations,” after “post-doctoral fellowship program” and substituted “nor more than 60” for “nor more than forty”.

1988—[Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) substituted “Institute” for “National Bureau of Standards”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 99–574, § 8(b)](/us/pl/99/574/s8/b), Oct. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 3238](/us/stat/100/3238), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall be effective October 1, 1987.”

#### Savings Clause for Post-Doctoral Fellowship Program

[Pub. L. 114–329, title III, § 306(d)(2)](/us/pl/114/329/tIII/s306/d/2), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 3010](/us/stat/130/3010), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (c) of this section [amending this section] shall not affect any award of a post-doctoral fellowship or other form of financial assistance made under section 19 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act ([15 U.S.C. 278g–2](/us/usc/t15/s278g–2)) before the date of enactment of this Act [Jan. 6, 2017]. Such awards shall continue to be subject to the requirements to which such funds were subject under that section before the date of enactment of this Act.”
