---
title: "§ 20233. Eligibility for consideration for promotion: designation as joint qualified officer required before promotion to brigadier general; exceptions"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20233"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20233"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 642](/us/stat/137/642).)"
---
# § 20233. Eligibility for consideration for promotion: designation as joint qualified officer required before promotion to brigadier general; exceptions

##### § 20233. Eligibility for consideration for promotion: designation as joint qualified officer required before promotion to brigadier general; exceptions

(a) General Rule.— An officer on the Space Force officer list may not be appointed to the grade of brigadier general unless the officer has been designated as a joint qualified officer in accordance with [section 661 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s661).

(b) Exceptions.— Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense may waive subsection (a) in the following circumstances:

(1) When necessary for the good of the service.

(2) In the case of an officer whose proposed selection for promotion is based primarily upon scientific and technical qualifications for which joint requirements do not exist.

(3) In the case of an officer selected by a promotion board for appointment to the grade of brigadier general while serving in a joint duty assignment if—

(A) the officer’s total consecutive service in joint duty assignments is not less than two years; and

(B) the officer has successfully completed a program of education described in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 2155 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2155).

(4) In the case of an officer who—

(A) is selected by a promotion board for appointment to the grade of brigadier general;

(B) is not exempted under subsection (g); and

(C) has successfully completed the education requirements prescribed in subparagraph (A) of [section 661(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s661/c/1) but has not been afforded the opportunity to complete the experience requirements described in subparagraph (B) of that section.

(c) Waiver to Be Individual.— A waiver may be granted under subsection (b) only on a case-by-case basis in the case of an individual officer.

(d) Special Rule for Good-of-the-service Waiver.— In the case of a waiver under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary of Defense shall provide that the first duty assignment as a general officer of the officer for whom the waiver is granted shall be in a joint duty assignment.

(e) Limitation on Delegation of Waiver Authority.— The authority of the Secretary of Defense to grant a waiver under subsection (b)(4) may only be delegated as provided in [section 619a(e) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s619a/e).

(f) Regulations.— The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section. The regulations shall specifically identify for purposes of subsection (b)(2) those categories of officers for which selection for promotion to brigadier general is based primarily upon scientific and technical qualifications for which joint requirements do not exist.

(g) Exemption.— Subsection (a) shall not apply to an officer who transfers to the Space Force from a reserve component before the first day of the sixth fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of this section, and who, as of the date of the transfer, is serving in the grade of major, lieutenant colonel, or colonel or, in the case of the Navy or Coast Guard, lieutenant commander, commander, or captain.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 642](/us/stat/137/642).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (g), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31), which was approved Dec. 22, 2023.
