---
title: "§ 4141. Claims settlement period"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4141"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4141"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title II, § 211, as added [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 103](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s103), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1111](/us/stat/76/1111).)"
---
# § 4141. Claims settlement period

##### § 4141. Claims settlement period

The Commission shall complete its affairs in connection with the settlement of claims pursuant to this subchapter not later than four years following the enactment of legislation making appropriations to the Commission for payment of administrative expenses incurred in carrying out its functions under this subchapter.

*([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title II, § 211, as added [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 103](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s103), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1111](/us/stat/76/1111).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2017j of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Protests Relating to Awards by Commission; Notice by Publication in Federal Register

Notwithstanding the provisions of this section and [section 4140 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4140), receipt and consideration of filed and published protests relating to awards made by the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission which result in modification of such awards shall be certified and paid by the Secretary of the Treasury out of the War Claims Fund in accordance with [section 4143 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4143). See section 615 of [act Mar. 10, 1950, ch. 54](/us/act/1950-03-10/ch54), as added by [Pub. L. 94–542](/us/pl/94/542), Oct. 18, 1976; [90 Stat. 2512](/us/stat/90/2512), set out as a note under [section 1623 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s1623), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
