---
title: "§ 853o–1. Credit of service as deck officer or junior engineer and certain other active service for retirement and retirement pay"
identifier: "USC-T33-S853o–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section853o–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–649, § 9(c)](/us/pl/87/649/s9/c), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 496](/us/stat/76/496); 1965 Reorg. Plan No. 2, eff. July 13, 1965, 30 F.R. 8819, [79 Stat. 1318](/us/stat/79/1318); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090).)"
---
# § 853o–1. Credit of service as deck officer or junior engineer and certain other active service for retirement and retirement pay

##### § 853o–1. Credit of service as deck officer or junior engineer and certain other active service for retirement and retirement pay

Active service in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration as a deck officer or junior engineer and active service counted on June 30, 1922, for longevity pay, shall be credited to commissioned officers as active commissioned service for purposes of retirement and retirement pay.

*([Pub. L. 87–649, § 9(c)](/us/pl/87/649/s9/c), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 496](/us/stat/76/496); 1965 Reorg. Plan No. 2, eff. July 13, 1965, 30 F.R. 8819, [79 Stat. 1318](/us/stat/79/1318); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 302 of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s302) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 37, Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services, by [Pub. L. 87–649, § 1](/us/pl/87/649/s1), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 451](/us/stat/76/451).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Nov. 1, 1962, see [section 15 of Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649/s15), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s101), Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Coast and Geodetic Survey consolidated with Weather Bureau to form a new agency in Department of Commerce to be known as Environmental Science Services Administration, and commissioned officers of Survey transferred to ESSA, by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1965, eff. July 13, 1965, 30 F.R. 8819, [79 Stat. 1318](/us/stat/79/1318), set out as a note under [section 851 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s851). The Reorg. Plan also transferred to Secretary of Commerce all functions of Coast and Geodetic Survey and Director of Survey. Subsequently, Environmental Science Services Administration abolished, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration established, and Commissioned Officer Corps of ESSA redesignated Commissioned Officer Corps of NOAA by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. For further details, see note set out under [section 851 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s851).
