---
title: "§ 326. Laws unaffected"
identifier: "USC-T25-S326"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section326"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Feb. 5, 1948, ch. 45, § 4](/us/act/1948-02-05/ch45/s4), [62 Stat. 18](/us/stat/62/18).)"
---
# § 326. Laws unaffected

##### § 326. Laws unaffected

Sections 323 to 328 of this title shall not in any manner amend or repeal the provisions of the Federal Water Power Act of June 10, 1920 ([41 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/41/1063)), as amended by the Act of August 26, 1935 ([49 Stat. 838](/us/stat/49/838)) [[16 U.S.C. 791a](/us/usc/t16/s791a) et seq.], nor shall any existing statutory authority empowering the Secretary of the Interior to grant rights-of-way over Indian lands be repealed.

*([Feb. 5, 1948, ch. 45, § 4](/us/act/1948-02-05/ch45/s4), [62 Stat. 18](/us/stat/62/18).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Water Power Act, referred to in text, is [act June 10, 1920, ch. 285](/us/act/1920-06-10/ch285), [41 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/41/1063), now known as the Federal Power Act, which is classified generally to chapter 12 (§ 791a et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of the Interior relating to compliance with rights-of-way across Indian lands, issued under section 321 et seq. of this title with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(e), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, [93 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/93/1373), 1376, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, effective July 1, 1979, pursuant to Ex. Ord. No. 12142, § 1–101, June 21, 1979, 44 F.R. 36927, set out as a note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e), Commerce and Trade. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by [section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486/s3012/b), set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under [section 719e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s719e). Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by [section 720d(f) of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s720d/f).
