---
title: "§ 170. Funding flexibility for transportation emergencies"
identifier: "USC-T23-S170"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-09-29"
last_updated: "2025-09-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title23-section170"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "23"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. A, title I, § 1515(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dA/tI/s1515/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 573](/us/stat/126/573).)"
---
# § 170. Funding flexibility for transportation emergencies

##### § 170. Funding flexibility for transportation emergencies

(a) In General.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a State may use up to 100 percent of any covered funds of the State to repair or replace a transportation facility that has suffered serious damage as a result of a natural disaster or catastrophic failure from an external cause.

(b) Declaration of Emergency.— Funds may be used under this section only for a disaster or emergency declared by the President pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 5121](/us/usc/t42/s5121) et seq.).

(c) Repayment.— Funds used under subsection (a) shall be repaid to the program from which the funds were taken in the event that such repairs or replacement are subsequently covered by a supplemental appropriation of funds.

(d) Definitions.— In this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) Covered funds.— The term “covered funds” means any amounts apportioned to a State under section 104(b), other than amounts suballocated to metropolitan areas and other areas of the State under section 133(d), but including any such amounts required to be set aside for a purpose other than the repair or replacement of a transportation facility under this section.

(2) Transportation facility.— The term “transportation facility” means any facility eligible for assistance under section 125.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. A, title I, § 1515(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dA/tI/s1515/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 573](/us/stat/126/573).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143), which is classified principally to chapter 68 (§ 5121 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t23/s101).
