---
title: "§ 716. Arctic maritime transportation"
identifier: "USC-T14-S716"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section716"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 113–281, title V, § 501(a)](/us/pl/113/281/tV/s501/a), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3056](/us/stat/128/3056), § 90; amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3533(d)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3533/d), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2321](/us/stat/132/2321); renumbered § 716, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 106(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s106/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4203](/us/stat/132/4203).)"
---
# § 716. Arctic maritime transportation

##### § 716. Arctic maritime transportation

(a) Purpose.— The purpose of this section is to ensure safe and secure maritime shipping in the Arctic including the availability of aids to navigation, vessel escorts, spill response capability, and maritime search and rescue in the Arctic.

(b) International Maritime Organization Agreements.— To carry out the purpose of this section, the Secretary is encouraged to enter into negotiations through the International Maritime Organization to conclude and execute agreements to promote coordinated action among the United States, Russia, Canada, Iceland, Norway, and Denmark and other seafaring and Arctic nations to ensure, in the Arctic—

(1) placement and maintenance of aids to navigation;

(2) appropriate marine safety, tug, and salvage capabilities;

(3) oil spill prevention and response capability;

(4) maritime domain awareness, including long-range vessel tracking; and

(5) search and rescue.

(c) Coordination by Committee on the Maritime Transportation System.— The Committee on the Maritime Transportation System established under section 55501 11 See References in Text note below. of title 46, United States Code, shall coordinate the establishment of domestic transportation policies in the Arctic necessary to carry out the purpose of this section.

(d) Agreements and Contracts.— The Secretary may, subject to the availability of appropriations, enter into cooperative agreements, contracts, or other agreements with, or make grants to, individuals and governments to carry out the purpose of this section or any agreements established under subsection (b).

(e) Icebreaking.— The Secretary shall promote safe maritime navigation by means of icebreaking where necessary, feasible, and effective to carry out the purposes of this section.

(f) Arctic Definition.— In this section, the term “Arctic” has the meaning given such term in section 112 of the Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 ([15 U.S.C. 4111](/us/usc/t15/s4111)).

*(Added [Pub. L. 113–281, title V, § 501(a)](/us/pl/113/281/tV/s501/a), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3056](/us/stat/128/3056), § 90; amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3533(d)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3533/d), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2321](/us/stat/132/2321); renumbered § 716, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 106(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s106/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4203](/us/stat/132/4203).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 55501 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s55501), United States Code, referred to in subsec. (c), was redesignated [section 50401 of title 46](/us/usc/t46/s50401) by [Pub. L. 117–81, div. C, title XXXV, § 3512(a)(3)](/us/pl/117/81/dC/tXXXV/s3512/a/3), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/135/2239).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 90 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s90) as this section.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) struck out question mark after “the term ‘Arctic’ ”.
