---
title: "§ 3385. Benjamin Tallmadge Institute as primary Central Intelligence Agency entity for education and training in counterintelligence"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3385"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3385"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, § 7334](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIII/s7334), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1046](/us/stat/137/1046).)"
---
# § 3385. Benjamin Tallmadge Institute as primary Central Intelligence Agency entity for education and training in counterintelligence

##### § 3385. Benjamin Tallmadge Institute as primary Central Intelligence Agency entity for education and training in counterintelligence

(a) In general The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall maintain the Benjamin Tallmadge Institute as the primary entity within the Central Intelligence Agency for education and training related to all aspects of counterintelligence.

(b) Responsibilities of Director The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall—

(1) ensure the Institute is fully and properly organized and has the resources necessary to provide counterintelligence education and training for all career fields within the Agency, including specialized certifications for Agency counterintelligence personnel;

(2) develop appropriate certification courses that are designed to educate, train, and certify Agency personnel in—

(A) counterintelligence threats, insider threats, and other counterintelligence processes and issues;

(B) the conduct and support of counterintelligence inquiries and investigations;

(C) relevant skills necessary for coordination with Federal law enforcement; and

(D) any other skills as the Director determines necessary;

(3) identify and designate specific positions for which an individual shall be required to have a certification described in paragraph (2) prior to filling such a position; and

(4) develop necessary infrastructure and capacity to support the availability of courses under subsection (c) to increase participation by personnel from other components of the intelligence community in the courses offered by the Institute.

(c) Training and familiarization courses

(1) In general The head of the Institute shall—

(A) develop training and familiarization courses at different classification levels, including courses at an unclassified level; and

(B) offer instruction in the courses developed under subparagraph (A) or make training curricula available to other intelligence community components, as appropriate, to support outreach efforts.

(2) Availability of courses The training and familiarization courses developed under paragraph (1) shall be made available to any of the following that have a need and appropriate clearance, as determined by the Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center in consultation with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, for a general education on counterintelligence threats, briefings on specific topics, or other training related to counterintelligence:

(A) Federal departments and agencies that are not elements of the intelligence community.

(B) State, local, and Tribal governments.

(C) Private sector entities.

(D) Such other personnel and entities as appropriate.

(d) Baseline certification course

(1) In general The Institute shall develop, in coordination with the National Counterintelligence and Security Center and the Defense Intelligence Agency, and implement a baseline certification course for all counterintelligence career professionals that aligns the minimum certification requirements of the course and the Defense Counterintelligence Agent Course of the Joint Counterintelligence Training Activity.

(2) Availability of course The baseline certification course developed under paragraph (1) shall be made available, on a space-available basis, to all intelligence community professionals and appropriate personnel with appropriate security clearance from any other agency, committee, commission, office, or other establishment in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Federal Government.

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, § 7334](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIII/s7334), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1046](/us/stat/137/1046).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “intelligence community” as used in this section, see [section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s7002), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
