---
title: "§ 3693. Compliance surveys"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3693"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3693"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 94–502, title V, § 511(1)](/us/pl/94/502/tV/s511/1), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2401](/us/stat/90/2401), § 1793; amended [Pub. L. 100–322, title III, § 322](/us/pl/100/322/tIII/s322), May 20, 1988, [102 Stat. 535](/us/stat/102/535); [Pub. L. 101–237, title IV, § 423(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/101/237/tIV/s423/b/1/A), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/103/2092); renumbered § 3693, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406); [Pub. L. 11"
---
# § 3693. Compliance surveys

##### § 3693. Compliance surveys

(a)

(1) Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary shall conduct an annual compliance survey of educational institutions and training establishments offering one or more courses approved for the enrollment of eligible veterans or persons if at least 20 such veterans or persons are enrolled in any such course. The Secretary shall—

(A) design the compliance surveys to ensure that such institutions or establishments, as the case may be, and approved courses are in compliance with all applicable provisions of chapters 30 through 36 of this title;

(B) survey each such educational institution and training establishment not less than once during every 2-year period; and

(C) assign not fewer than 1 education compliance specialist to work on compliance surveys in any year for each 40 compliance surveys required to be made under this section for such year.

(2) The Secretary, in consultation with the State approving agencies, shall—

(A) annually determine the parameters of the surveys required under paragraph (1); and

(B) not later than September 1 of each year, make available to the State approving agencies a list of the educational institutions and training establishments that will be surveyed during the fiscal year following the date of making such list available.

(b) The Secretary may waive the requirement in subsection (a)(1) for a compliance survey with respect to an educational institution or training establishment if the Secretary determines, based on the record of compliance of such institution or establishment with all the applicable provisions of chapters 30 through 36 of this title, that the waiver would be appropriate and in the best interest of the United States Government.

(c) To the maximum extent feasible, the Secretary, or a State approving agency, as applicable, shall provide not more than 10 business days of notice to an educational institution or training establishment before conducting a compliance survey of the institution or establishment under this section.

(d) In this section, the terms “educational institution” and “training establishment” have the meanings given such terms in [section 3452 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3452).

*(Added [Pub. L. 94–502, title V, § 511(1)](/us/pl/94/502/tV/s511/1), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2401](/us/stat/90/2401), § 1793; amended [Pub. L. 100–322, title III, § 322](/us/pl/100/322/tIII/s322), May 20, 1988, [102 Stat. 535](/us/stat/102/535); [Pub. L. 101–237, title IV, § 423(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/101/237/tIV/s423/b/1/A), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/103/2092); renumbered § 3693, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406); [Pub. L. 114–315, title IV, § 411](/us/pl/114/315/tIV/s411), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1561](/us/stat/130/1561); [Pub. L. 117–333, § 12(b)](/us/pl/117/333/s12/b), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6134](/us/stat/136/6134).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 117–333](/us/pl/117/333) added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsec. (c) as (d).

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–315, § 411(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/315/s411/a/1), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a) which read as follows: “Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary shall conduct an annual compliance survey of each institution offering one or more courses approved for the enrollment of eligible veterans or persons if at least 300 veterans or persons are enrolled in such course or courses under provisions of this title or if any such course does not lead to a standard college degree. Such compliance survey shall be designed to ensure that the institution and approved courses are in compliance with all applicable provisions of chapters 30 through 36 of this title. The Secretary shall assign at least one education compliance specialist to work on compliance surveys in any year for each 40 compliance surveys required to be made under this section for such year.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–315, § 411(b)](/us/pl/114/315/s411/b), substituted “subsection (a)(1) for a compliance survey” for “subsection (a) of this section for an annual compliance survey”, “educational institution or training establishment” for “institution”, and “record of compliance of such institution or establishment” for “institution’s demonstrated record of compliance”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–315, § 411(a)(2)](/us/pl/114/315/s411/a/2), added subsec. (c).

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) renumbered [section 1793 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1793) as this section.

1989—[Pub. L. 101–237](/us/pl/101/237) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

1988—[Pub. L. 100–322](/us/pl/100/322) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The Administrator shall conduct an annual compliance survey of each institution offering one or more courses approved for the enrollment of eligible veterans or persons where at least 300 veterans or persons are enrolled under provisions of this title or where the course does not lead to a standard college degree. Such compliance survey shall assure that the institution and approved courses are in compliance with all applicable provisions of chapters 31, 34, 35, and 36 of this title. The Administrator shall assign at least one education compliance specialist to work on compliance surveys in any year for each 40 compliance surveys required to be made under this section.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 94–502, title VII, § 703](/us/pl/94/502/tVII/s703), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2406](/us/stat/90/2406), provided that: “(a) Sections 101, 201, 203, 207, 209, 301, 303, 304, 308, 501, 502, 503, and 508 [see Tables for classification] of this Act shall become effective on October 1, 1976. “(b) Sections 102, 104, 202, 204, 205(1), 205(2), 205(3), 208, 210, 211, 302, 305, 306, 309, 310, 506, 510, 511, and 513 (other than paragraphs (7), (8), (9), and (10) of subsection (a)) [see Tables for classification] of this Act shall become effective on the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 15, 1976]. “(c) Sections 103, 205(4), 206, 307, 504, 505, 507, 509, 512, and 701 and title VI of this Act [see Tables for classification] shall become effective on December 1, 1976.”
