---
title: "§ 4611. Participation in joint reviews with Canada and Mexico regarding extension of the term of the USMCA and other action regarding the USMCA"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4611"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4611"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title VI, § 611](/us/pl/116/113/tVI/s611), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 79](/us/stat/134/79).)"
---
# § 4611. Participation in joint reviews with Canada and Mexico regarding extension of the term of the USMCA and other action regarding the USMCA

##### § 4611. Participation in joint reviews with Canada and Mexico regarding extension of the term of the USMCA and other action regarding the USMCA

(a) In general Pursuant to the requirements of this section, the President shall consult with the appropriate congressional committees and stakeholders before each joint review, including consultation with respect to—

(1) any recommendation for action to be proposed at the review; and

(2) the decision whether or not to confirm that the United States wishes to extend the USMCA.

(b) Consultations with Congress and stakeholders

(1) Publication and public hearing At least 270 days before a joint review commences, the Trade Representative shall publish in the Federal Register a notice regarding the joint review and shall, as soon as possible following such publication, provide opportunity for the presentation of views relating to the operation of the USMCA, including a public hearing.

(2) Report to Congress At least 180 days before a 6-year joint review under article 34.7 of the USMCA commences, the Trade Representative shall report to the appropriate congressional committees regarding—

(A) the assessment of the Trade Representative with respect to the operation of the USMCA;

(B) the precise recommendation for action to be proposed at the review and the position of the United States with respect to whether to extend the term of the USMCA;

(C) what, if any, prior efforts have been made to resolve any concern that underlies that recommendation or position; and

(D) the views of the advisory committees established under [section 2155 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2155) regarding that recommendation or position.

(c) Subsequent action to address lack of agreement on term extension

(1) In general If, as part of a joint review, any USMCA country does not confirm that the country wishes to extend the term of the USMCA under article 34.7.3 of the USMCA, at least 70 days before any subsequent annual joint review meeting conducted as required under article 34.7 of the USMCA, the Trade Representative shall report to the appropriate congressional committees regarding—

(A) any reason offered by a USMCA country regarding why the country is unable to agree to extend the term of the USMCA;

(B) the progress that has been made in efforts to achieve resolution of the concerns of that country;

(C) any proposed action that the Trade Representative intends to raise during the meeting; and

(D) the views of the advisory committees established under [section 2155 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2155) regarding the reasons described in subparagraph (A) and any proposed action under subparagraph (C).

(2) Additional information The Trade Representative shall also provide detailed and timely information in response to any questions posed by the appropriate congressional committees with respect to any meeting described in paragraph (1), including by submitting to those committees copies of any proposed text that the Trade Representative plans to submit to the other parties to the meeting.

(d) Congressional engagement after joint review

(1) In general Not later than 20 days after the USMCA countries have met for a joint review, the Trade Representative shall brief the appropriate congressional committees regarding the positions expressed by the countries during the joint review and what, if any, actions were agreed to by the countries.

(2) Continued engagement After a joint review, the Trade Representative shall keep the appropriate congressional committees timely apprised of any developments arising out of or related to the review.

(e) Definitions In this section:

(1) Joint review The term “joint review” means a review conducted under the process provided for in article 34.7 of the USMCA relating to extension of the term of the USMCA.

(2) USMCA country The term “USMCA country” has the meaning given that term in [section 4531(a) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4531/a).

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title VI, § 611](/us/pl/116/113/tVI/s611), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 79](/us/stat/134/79).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Proc. No. 10053, par. (14), June 29, 2020, 85 F.R. 39826, authorized the United States Trade Representative to exercise the function assigned to the President under subsec. (a) of this section to consult with the appropriate congressional committees and stakeholders regarding joint reviews under article 34.7 of the USMCA.
