---
title: "§ 1709B. Evaluations of mental health care and suicide prevention programs"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1709B"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1709B"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–2, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/2/s2/a/1), Feb. 12, 2015, [129 Stat. 30](/us/stat/129/30); amended [Pub. L. 114–188, § 2](/us/pl/114/188/s2), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 611](/us/stat/130/611).)"
---
# § 1709B. Evaluations of mental health care and suicide prevention programs

##### § 1709B. Evaluations of mental health care and suicide prevention programs

(a) Evaluations.—

(1) Not less frequently than once during each period specified in paragraph (3), the Secretary shall provide for the conduct of an evaluation of the mental health care and suicide prevention programs carried out under the laws administered by the Secretary.

(2) Each evaluation conducted under paragraph (1) shall—

(A) use metrics that are common among and useful for practitioners in the field of mental health care and suicide prevention, including metrics applicable specifically to women;

(B) identify the most effective mental health care and suicide prevention programs conducted by the Secretary, including such programs conducted at a Center of Excellence;

(C) identify the cost-effectiveness of each program identified under subparagraph (B);

(D) measure the satisfaction of patients with respect to the care provided under each such program;

(E) propose best practices for caring for individuals who suffer from mental health disorders or are at risk of suicide, including such practices conducted or suggested by other departments or agencies of the Federal Government, including the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration of the Department of Health and Human Services; and

(F) identify the mental health care and suicide prevention programs conducted by the Secretary that are most effective for women veterans and such programs with the highest satisfaction rates among women veterans.

(3) The periods specified in this paragraph are the following:

(A) The period beginning on the date on which the Secretary awards the contract under paragraph (4) and ending on September 30, 2018.

(B) Each fiscal year beginning on or after October 1, 2018.

(4) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall seek to enter into a contract with an independent third party unaffiliated with the Department of Veterans Affairs to conduct evaluations under paragraph (1).

(5) The independent third party that is awarded the contract under paragraph (4) shall submit to the Secretary each evaluation conducted under paragraph (1).

(b) Annual Submission.— Not later than December 1, 2018, and each year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that contains the following:

(1) The most recent evaluations submitted to the Secretary under subsection (a)(5) that the Secretary has not previously submitted to such Committees.

(2) Any recommendations the Secretary considers appropriate.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–2, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/2/s2/a/1), Feb. 12, 2015, [129 Stat. 30](/us/stat/129/30); amended [Pub. L. 114–188, § 2](/us/pl/114/188/s2), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 611](/us/stat/130/611).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a)(4), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 114–2](/us/pl/114/2), which was approved Feb. 12, 2015.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 114–188, § 2(1)](/us/pl/114/188/s2/1), inserted before semicolon at end “, including metrics applicable specifically to women”.

Subsec. (a)(2)(F). [Pub. L. 114–188, § 2(2)](/us/pl/114/188/s2/2)–(4), added subpar. (F).
