---
title: "§ 5872. Forfeitures"
identifier: "USC-T26-S5872"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section5872"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–618, title II, § 201](/us/pl/90/618/tII/s201), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1235](/us/stat/82/1235); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)"
---
# § 5872. Forfeitures

##### § 5872. Forfeitures

(a) Laws applicable Any firearm involved in any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture, and (except as provided in subsection (b)) all the provisions of internal revenue laws relating to searches, seizures, and forfeitures of unstamped articles are extended to and made to apply to the articles taxed under this chapter, and the persons to whom this chapter applies.

(b) Disposal In the case of the forfeiture of any firearm by reason of a violation of this chapter, no notice of public sale shall be required; no such firearm shall be sold at public sale; if such firearm is forfeited for a violation of this chapter and there is no remission or mitigation of forfeiture thereof, it shall be delivered by the Secretary to the Administrator of General Services, General Services Administration, who may order such firearm destroyed or may sell it to any State, or possession, or political subdivision thereof, or at the request of the Secretary, may authorize its retention for official use of the Treasury Department, or may transfer it without charge to any executive department or independent establishment of the Government for use by it.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–618, title II, § 201](/us/pl/90/618/tII/s201), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1235](/us/stat/82/1235); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in prior section 5862, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 729](/us/stat/68A/729), prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618).

#### Amendments

1976—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of first month following October 1968, see [section 207(a) of Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618/s207/a), set out as a note under [section 5801 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5801).
