---
title: "§ 1550. Reports and briefings on use of military force and support of partner forces"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1550"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1550"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XII, § 1285](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXII/s1285), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/133/1709).)"
---
# § 1550. Reports and briefings on use of military force and support of partner forces

##### § 1550. Reports and briefings on use of military force and support of partner forces

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after December 20, 2019, and every 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on actions taken pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force ([Public Law 107–40](/us/pl/107/40)) against those countries or organizations described in such law, as well as any actions taken to command, coordinate, participate in the movement of, or accompany the regular or irregular military forces of any foreign country or government when such forces are engaged in hostilities or in situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, during the preceding 180-day period.

(b) Matters to be included The report required by subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the time period for which the report was submitted, the following:

(1) A list of each country or organization with respect to which force has been used pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force, including the legal and factual basis for the determination that authority under such law applies with respect to each such country or organization.

(2) An intelligence assessment of the risk to the United States posed by each such country or organization.

(3) A list of each country in which operations were conducted pursuant to such law and a description of the circumstances necessitating the use of force pursuant to such law, including whether the country is designated as an area of active hostilities.

(4) A general description of the status of operations conducted pursuant to such law as well as a description of the expected scope and duration of such operations.

(5) A list of each partner force and country with respect to which United States Armed Forces have commanded, coordinated, participated in the movement of, or accompanied the regular or irregular forces of any foreign country or government that have engaged in hostilities or there existed an imminent threat that such forces would become engaged in hostilities, including—

(A) a delineation of any such instances in which such United States Armed Forces were or were not operating under the Authorization for Use of Military Force; and

(B) a determination of whether the foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals against which such hostilities occurred are covered by such law.

(6) A description of the actual and proposed contributions, including financing, equipment, training, troops, and logistical support, provided by each foreign country that participates in any international coalition with the United States to combat a country or organization described in the Authorization for Use of Military Force.

(c) Form The information required under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form.

(d) Other reports If United States Armed Forces are introduced into hostilities, or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, against any country, organization, or person pursuant to statutory or constitutional authorities other than Authorization for Use of Military Force, the President shall comply with the reporting requirements under—

(1) this section to the same extent and in the same manner as if such actions had been taken under Authorization for Use of Military Force;

(2) the War Powers Resolution ([50 U.S.C. 1541](/us/usc/t50/s1541) et seq.); and

(3) any other applicable provision of law.

(e) Briefings At least once during each 180-day period described in subsection (a), the President shall provide to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a briefing on the matters covered by the report required under this section for such period.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XII, § 1285](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXII/s1285), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/133/1709).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Authorization for Use of Military Force, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 107–40](/us/pl/107/40), Sept. 18, 2001, [115 Stat. 224](/us/stat/115/224), which is set out as a note under [section 1541 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1541).

The War Powers Resolution, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), is [Pub. L. 93–148](/us/pl/93/148), Nov. 7, 1973, [87 Stat. 555](/us/stat/87/555), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Resolution to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1541 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1541) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, and not as part of the War Powers Resolution which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Congressional Defense Committees” Defined

Congressional defense committees means the Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92/s3), [133 Stat. 1231](/us/stat/133/1231). See note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority Under Section 1285 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020

Memorandum of President of the United States, July 19, 2021, 86 F.R. 39939, provided:

Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including [section 301 of title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense the authority and functions vested in the President by section 1285(a) through (e) of [Public Law 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) [[50 U.S.C. 1550(a)](/us/usc/t50/s1550/a) to (e)] on the use of military force and support of partner forces to the Congress.

You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
