---
title: "§ 2747. Authority for emergency planning, design, and construction activities"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2747"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2747"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVII, § 4707](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVII/s4707), formerly div. C, title XXXVI, § 3626, Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2759](/us/stat/116/2759); renumbered div. D, title XLVII, § 4707, and amended [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(j)(2)(A)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/j/2/A)–(C), (D)(iii), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1781](/us/stat/117/1781).)"
---
# § 2747. Authority for emergency planning, design, and construction activities

##### § 2747. Authority for emergency planning, design, and construction activities

(a) Authority The Secretary of Energy may use any funds available to the Department of Energy pursuant to a DOE national security authorization, including funds authorized to be appropriated for advance planning, engineering, and construction design, and for plant projects, to perform planning, design, and construction activities for any Department of Energy national security program construction project that, as determined by the Secretary, must proceed expeditiously in order to protect public health and safety, to meet the needs of national defense, or to protect property.

(b) Limitation The Secretary may not exercise the authority under subsection (a) in the case of a construction project until the Secretary has submitted to the congressional defense committees a report on the activities that the Secretary intends to carry out under this section and the circumstances making those activities necessary.

(c) Specific authority The requirement of [section 2746(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2746/b/2) does not apply to emergency planning, design, and construction activities conducted under this section.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVII, § 4707](/us/pl/107/314/dD/tXLVII/s4707), formerly div. C, title XXXVI, § 3626, Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2759](/us/stat/116/2759); renumbered div. D, title XLVII, § 4707, and amended [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(j)(2)(A)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/j/2/A)–(C), (D)(iii), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1781](/us/stat/117/1781).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 7386f of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7386f), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 108–136](/us/pl/108/136).

#### Amendments

2003—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 3141(j)(2)(D)(iii)](/us/pl/108/136/s3141/j/2/D/iii), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 2746(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2746/b/2).
