---
title: "§ 7291. Awards for academic enrichment"
identifier: "USC-T20-S7291"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section7291"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4641](/us/pl/89/10/tIV/s4641), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, § 4601](/us/pl/114/95/tIV/s4601), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2033](/us/stat/129/2033).)"
---
# § 7291. Awards for academic enrichment

##### § 7291. Awards for academic enrichment

(a) Program authorized From funds reserved under [section 7251(b)(2)(C) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7251/b/2/C), the Secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities for the purposes of enriching the academic experience of students by promoting—

(1) arts education for disadvantaged students and students who are children with disabilities, as described in [section 7292 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7292);

(2) school readiness through the development and dissemination of accessible instructional programming for preschool and elementary school children and their families, as described in [section 7293 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7293); and

(3) support for high-ability learners and high-ability learning, as described in [section 7294 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s7294).

(b) Annual awards The Secretary shall annually make awards to fulfill each of the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4641](/us/pl/89/10/tIV/s4641), as added [Pub. L. 114–95, title IV, § 4601](/us/pl/114/95/tIV/s4601), Dec. 10, 2015, [129 Stat. 2033](/us/stat/129/2033).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2015, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 114–95](/us/pl/114/95/s5), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s6301).
