---
title: "§ 2291. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2291"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2291"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–846, § 2](/us/pl/85/846/s2), Aug. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 1084](/us/stat/72/1084).)"
---
# § 2291. Definitions

##### § 2291. Definitions

(a) “The Community” means the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM).

(b) The “Commission” means the Atomic Energy Commission, as established by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended [[42 U.S.C. 2011](/us/usc/t42/s2011) et seq.].

(c) “Joint program” means the cooperative program established by the Community and the United States and carried out in accordance with the provisions of an agreement for cooperation entered into pursuant to the provisions of [section 2153 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2153), to bring into operation in the territory of the members of the Community powerplants using nuclear reactors of types selected by the Commission and the Community, having as a goal a total installed capacity of approximately one million kilowatts of electricity by December 31, 1963, except that two reactors may be selected to be in operation by December 31, 1965.

(d) All other terms used in this subchapter shall have the same meaning as terms described in [section 2014 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2014).

*([Pub. L. 85–846, § 2](/us/pl/85/846/s2), Aug. 28, 1958, [72 Stat. 1084](/us/stat/72/1084).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 919](/us/stat/68/919), which is classified principally to this chapter (§ 2011 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2011) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the EURATOM Cooperation Act of 1958 which comprises this subchapter, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.
