---
title: "§ 2894a. Complaint database"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2894a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2894a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX, § 3016(b)](/us/pl/116/92/dB/tXXX/s3016/b), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1929](/us/stat/133/1929); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2825(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dB/tXXVIII/s2825/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2256](/us/stat/138/2256).)"
---
# § 2894a. Complaint database

##### § 2894a. Complaint database

(a) Database Required.— The Secretary of Defense shall establish a database of complaints made by a tenant regarding covered dwelling units.

(b) Public Availability.— The database shall be available to the public.

(c) Inclusion of Tenant Complaints.— The Secretary of Defense shall permit a tenant of a covered dwelling unit to file a complaint regarding the covered dwelling unit for inclusion in the database.

(d) Inclusion of Certain Information.—

(1) Information accessible in the database regarding a complaint shall include the following:

(A) The name of the installation for which the covered dwelling unit is provided.

(B) The name of the landlord responsible for the covered dwelling unit.

(C) A description of the nature of the complaint.

(2) The Secretary of Defense may not disclose personally identifiable information through the database.

(e) Response by Landlords.—

(1) The Secretary of Defense shall include in any contract with a landlord responsible for a housing unit a requirement that the landlord respond in a timely manner to any complaints included in the database that relate to the housing unit.

(2) The Secretary shall include landlord responses in the database.

(f) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “covered armed force” means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.

(2) The term “covered dwelling unit” means a unit of accompanied family housing, unaccompanied housing, or barracks—

(A) that is acquired or constructed pursuant to subchapter IV of chapter 169 of this title;

(B) in which a member of a covered armed force resides; and

(C) that such member does not own.

(3) The term “tenant” means any of the following:

(A) A member of a covered armed force who resides in a covered dwelling unit.

(B) A dependent of a member described in subparagraph (A) who resides in a covered dwelling unit.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–92, div. B, title XXX, § 3016(b)](/us/pl/116/92/dB/tXXX/s3016/b), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1929](/us/stat/133/1929); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2825(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dB/tXXVIII/s2825/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2256](/us/stat/138/2256).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–159, § 2825(a)(1)](/us/pl/118/159/s2825/a/1), substituted “by a tenant regarding covered dwelling units” for “regarding housing units”.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 118–159, § 2825(a)(2)](/us/pl/118/159/s2825/a/2), substituted “covered dwelling unit” for “housing unit” in two places.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 118–159, § 2825(a)(3)](/us/pl/118/159/s2825/a/3), added subsec. (f).
