---
title: "§ 7427. Authority to free members of the Armed Forces of the United States and certain other persons detained or imprisoned by or on behalf of the International Criminal Court"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7427"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7427"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–206, title II, § 2008](/us/pl/107/206/tII/s2008), Aug. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 905](/us/stat/116/905).)"
---
# § 7427. Authority to free members of the Armed Forces of the United States and certain other persons detained or imprisoned by or on behalf of the International Criminal Court

##### § 7427. Authority to free members of the Armed Forces of the United States and certain other persons detained or imprisoned by or on behalf of the International Criminal Court

(a) Authority The President is authorized to use all means necessary and appropriate to bring about the release of any person described in subsection (b) who is being detained or imprisoned by, on behalf of, or at the request of the International Criminal Court.

(b) Persons authorized to be freed The authority of subsection (a) shall extend to the following persons:

(1) Covered United States persons.

(2) Covered allied persons.

(3) Individuals detained or imprisoned for official actions taken while the individual was a covered United States person or a covered allied person, and in the case of a covered allied person, upon the request of such government.

(c) Authorization of legal assistance When any person described in subsection (b) is arrested, detained, investigated, prosecuted, or imprisoned by, on behalf of, or at the request of the International Criminal Court, the President is authorized to direct any agency of the United States Government to provide—

(1) legal representation and other legal assistance to that person (including, in the case of a person entitled to assistance under [section 1037 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1037), representation and other assistance in the manner provided in that section);

(2) exculpatory evidence on behalf of that person; and

(3) defense of the interests of the United States through appearance before the International Criminal Court pursuant to Article 18 or 19 of the Rome Statute, or before the courts or tribunals of any country.

(d) Bribes and other inducements not authorized This section does not authorize the payment of bribes or the provision of other such incentives to induce the release of a person described in subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 107–206, title II, § 2008](/us/pl/107/206/tII/s2008), Aug. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 905](/us/stat/116/905).)*
