---
title: "§ 12224. Allocation of funds; limitations on grants"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12224"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12224"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31704](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31704), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1891](/us/stat/108/1891).)"
---
# § 12224. Allocation of funds; limitations on grants

##### § 12224. Allocation of funds; limitations on grants

(a) Administrative cost limitation The Attorney General shall use not more than 5 percent of the funds available under this program for the purposes of administration and technical assistance.

(b) Renewal of grants A grant under this part 11 See References in Text note below. may be renewed for up to 2 additional years after the first fiscal year during which the recipient receives its initial grant under this part,1 subject to the availability of funds, if—

(1) the Attorney General determines that the funds made available to the recipient during the previous years were used in a manner required under the approved application; and

(2) the Attorney General determines that an additional grant is necessary to implement the community prosecution program described in the comprehensive plan required by [section 12223 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12223).

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31704](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31704), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1891](/us/stat/108/1891).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in subsec. (b), appearing in the original, is unidentifiable because subtitle Q of title III of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) does not contain parts.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13864 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13864), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
