---
title: "§ 10408. Subgrants and uses of funds"
identifier: "USC-T42-S10408"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section10408"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 308](/us/pl/98/457/tIII/s308), as added [Pub. L. 111–320, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/320/tII/s201), Dec. 20, 2010, [124 Stat. 3494](/us/stat/124/3494).)"
---
# § 10408. Subgrants and uses of funds

##### § 10408. Subgrants and uses of funds

(a) Subgrants A State that receives a grant under [section 10406(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10406/a) shall use grant funds described in [section 10406(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10406/b/2) to provide subgrants to eligible entities for programs and projects within such State, that is 11 So in original. Probably should be “are”. designed to prevent incidents of family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence by providing immediate shelter and supportive services for adult and youth victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence (and their dependents), and that may provide prevention services to prevent future incidents of family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence.

(b) Use of funds

(1) In general Funds awarded to eligible entities under subsection (a) shall be used to provide shelter, supportive services, or prevention services to adult and youth victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, and their dependents, which may include—

(A) provision, on a regular basis, of immediate shelter and related supportive services to adult and youth victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, and their dependents, including paying for the operating and administrative expenses of the facilities for such shelter;

(B) assistance in developing safety plans, and supporting efforts of victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence to make decisions related to their ongoing safety and well-being;

(C) provision of individual and group counseling, peer support groups, and referral to community-based services to assist family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence victims, and their dependents, in recovering from the effects of the violence;

(D) provision of services, training, technical assistance, and outreach to increase awareness of family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence and increase the accessibility of family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence services;

(E) provision of culturally and linguistically appropriate services;

(F) provision of services for children exposed to family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, including age-appropriate counseling, supportive services, and services for the nonabusing parent that support that parent’s role as a caregiver, which may, as appropriate, include services that work with the nonabusing parent and child together;

(G) provision of advocacy, case management services, and information and referral services, concerning issues related to family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence intervention and prevention, including—

(i) assistance in accessing related Federal and State financial assistance programs;

(ii) legal advocacy to assist victims and their dependents;

(iii) medical advocacy, including provision of referrals for appropriate health care services (including mental health, alcohol, and drug abuse treatment), but which shall not include reimbursement for any health care services;

(iv) assistance locating and securing safe and affordable permanent housing and homelessness prevention services;

(v) provision of transportation, child care, respite care, job training and employment services, financial literacy services and education, financial planning, and related economic empowerment services; and

(vi) parenting and other educational services for victims and their dependents; and

(H) prevention services, including outreach to underserved populations.

(2) Shelter and supportive services Not less than 70 percent of the funds distributed by a State under subsection (a) shall be distributed to entities for the primary purpose of providing immediate shelter and supportive services to adult and youth victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, and their dependents, as described in paragraph (1)(A). Not less than 25 percent of the funds distributed by a State under subsection (a) shall be distributed to entities for the purpose of providing supportive services and prevention services as described in subparagraphs (B) through (H) of paragraph (1).

(c) Eligible entities To be eligible to receive a subgrant from a State under this section, an entity shall be—

(1) a local public agency, or a nonprofit private organization (including faith-based and charitable organizations, community-based organizations, tribal organizations, and voluntary associations), that assists victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, and their dependents, and has a documented history of effective work concerning family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence; or

(2) a partnership of 2 or more agencies or organizations that includes—

(A) an agency or organization described in paragraph (1); and

(B) an agency or organization that has a demonstrated history of serving populations in their communities, including providing culturally appropriate services.

(d) Conditions

(1) Direct payments to victims or dependants No funds provided under this chapter may be used as direct payment to any victim of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, or to any dependent of such victim.

(2) Voluntarily accepted services Receipt of supportive services under this chapter shall be voluntary. No condition may be applied for the receipt of emergency shelter as described in subsection (b)(1)(A).

*([Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 308](/us/pl/98/457/tIII/s308), as added [Pub. L. 111–320, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/320/tII/s201), Dec. 20, 2010, [124 Stat. 3494](/us/stat/124/3494).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 10408, [Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 309](/us/pl/98/457/tIII/s309), Oct. 9, 1984, [98 Stat. 1762](/us/stat/98/1762); [Pub. L. 102–295, title III, § 311(b)](/us/pl/102/295/tIII/s311/b), May 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 203](/us/stat/106/203); [Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40272(a)](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40272/a), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1937](/us/stat/108/1937); [Pub. L. 108–36, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/108/36/tIV/s405), June 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 826](/us/stat/117/826), which related to definitions, was renumbered [section 320 of Pub. L. 98–457](/us/pl/98/457/s320) by [Pub. L. 108–36, title IV, § 415(5)](/us/pl/108/36/tIV/s415/5), June 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 830](/us/stat/117/830), and transferred to [section 10421 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10421), prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 111–320](/us/pl/111/320).

A prior [section 308 of Pub. L. 98–457](/us/pl/98/457/s308) was classified to [section 10407 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s10407) prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 111–320](/us/pl/111/320).
