---
title: "§ 18431. Workforce stabilization and critical skills preservation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18431"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18431"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–267, title XI, § 1105](/us/pl/111/267/tXI/s1105), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2840](/us/stat/124/2840).)"
---
# § 18431. Workforce stabilization and critical skills preservation

##### § 18431. Workforce stabilization and critical skills preservation

Prior to receipt by the Congress of the study, recommendations, and implementation strategy developed pursuant to section 1103,11 See References in Text note below. none of the funds authorized for use under this Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or activities, and associated civil service and contractor positions, from any NASA facility without authorization by the Congress to implement the proposed strategy. The Administrator shall preserve the critical skills and competencies in place at NASA centers prior to October 11, 2010, in order to facilitate timely implementation of the requirements of this chapter and to minimize disruption to the workforce. The Administrator may not implement any reduction-in-force or other involuntary separations of permanent, non-Senior-Executive-Service, civil servant employees before September 30, 2013, except for cause on charges of misconduct, delinquency, or inefficiency.

*([Pub. L. 111–267, title XI, § 1105](/us/pl/111/267/tXI/s1105), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2840](/us/stat/124/2840).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1103, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 111–267, title XI, § 1103](/us/pl/111/267/tXI/s1103), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2840](/us/stat/124/2840), which is not classified to the Code.

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 111–267](/us/pl/111/267), Oct. 11, 2010, [124 Stat. 2805](/us/stat/124/2805), known as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010, which enacted this chapter (§ 18301 et seq.) and various other provisions, including provisions authorizing appropriations, which were not classified to the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 18301 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18301) and Tables.
