---
title: "§ 1522. Protection of creditors and other interested persons"
identifier: "USC-T11-S1522"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-07-23"
last_updated: "2025-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title11-section1522"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "11"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–8, title VIII, § 801(a)](/us/pl/109/8/tVIII/s801/a), Apr. 20, 2005, [119 Stat. 142](/us/stat/119/142).)"
---
# § 1522. Protection of creditors and other interested persons

##### § 1522. Protection of creditors and other interested persons

(a) The court may grant relief under section 1519 or 1521, or may modify or terminate relief under subsection (c), only if the interests of the creditors and other interested entities, including the debtor, are sufficiently protected.

(b) The court may subject relief granted under section 1519 or 1521, or the operation of the debtor’s business under section 1520(a)(3), to conditions it considers appropriate, including the giving of security or the filing of a bond.

(c) The court may, at the request of the foreign representative or an entity affected by relief granted under section 1519 or 1521, or at its own motion, modify or terminate such relief.

(d) Section 1104(d) shall apply to the appointment of an examiner under this chapter. Any examiner shall comply with the qualification requirements imposed on a trustee by section 322.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–8, title VIII, § 801(a)](/us/pl/109/8/tVIII/s801/a), Apr. 20, 2005, [119 Stat. 142](/us/stat/119/142).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Apr. 20, 2005, and not applicable with respect to cases commenced under this title before such effective date, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1501 of Pub. L. 109–8](/us/pl/109/8/s1501), set out as an Effective Date of 2005 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t11/s101).
