---
title: "§ 254c–22. Integrated services for pregnant and postpartum women"
identifier: "USC-T42-S254c–22"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section254c–22"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 330P, as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. P, title I, § 134(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dP/tI/s134/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 796](/us/stat/136/796).)"
---
# § 254c–22. Integrated services for pregnant and postpartum women

##### § 254c–22. Integrated services for pregnant and postpartum women

(a) In general The Secretary may award grants for the purpose of establishing or operating evidence-based or innovative, evidence-informed programs to deliver integrated health care services to pregnant and postpartum women to optimize the health of women and their infants, including to reduce adverse maternal health outcomes, pregnancy-related deaths, and related health disparities (including such disparities associated with racial and ethnic minority populations), and, as appropriate, by addressing issues researched under subsection (b)(2) of [section 247b–12 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247b–12).

(b) Integrated services for pregnant and postpartum women

(1) Eligibility To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), a State, Indian Tribe, or Tribal organization (as such terms are defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304)) shall work with relevant stakeholders that coordinate care to develop and carry out the program, including—

(A) State, Tribal, and local agencies responsible for Medicaid, public health, social services, mental health, and substance use disorder treatment and services;

(B) health care providers who serve pregnant and postpartum women; and

(C) community-based health organizations and health workers, including providers of home visiting services and individuals representing communities with disproportionately high rates of maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity, and including those representing racial and ethnic minority populations.

(2) Terms

(A) Period A grant awarded under subsection (a) shall be made for a period of 5 years. Any supplemental award made to a grantee under subsection (a) may be made for a period of less than 5 years.

(B) Priorities In awarding grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—

(i) give priority to States, Indian Tribes, and Tribal organizations that have the highest rates of maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity relative to other such States, Indian Tribes, or Tribal organizations, respectively; and

(ii) shall consider health disparities related to maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity, including such disparities associated with racial and ethnic minority populations.

(C) Evaluation The Secretary shall require grantees to evaluate the outcomes of the programs supported under the grant.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 330P, as added [Pub. L. 117–103, div. P, title I, § 134(a)](/us/pl/117/103/dP/tI/s134/a), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 796](/us/stat/136/796).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Dissemination of Best Practices

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. P, title I, § 134(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/103/dP/tI/s134/b/2), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 797](/us/stat/136/797), provided that: “Not later than August 1, 2027, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall disseminate information on best practices and models of care used by recipients of grants under the amendments made by this section [enacting this section] (including best practices and models of care relating to the reduction of health disparities, including such disparities associated with racial and ethnic minority populations, in rates of maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity) to relevant stakeholders, which may include health providers, medical schools, nursing schools, relevant State, Tribal, and local agencies, and the general public.”
