---
title: "§ 4240. Review and audit by Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4240"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4240"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 821](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s821), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2894](/us/stat/114/2894), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2988](/us/stat/114/2988).)"
---
# § 4240. Review and audit by Secretary

##### § 4240. Review and audit by Secretary

(a) Annual review

(1) In general The Secretary shall, not less frequently than on an annual basis, make such reviews and audits as may be necessary or appropriate to determine whether—

(A) the Director has—

(i) carried out eligible activities under this subchapter in a timely manner;

(ii) carried out and made certifications in accordance with the requirements and the primary objectives of this subchapter and with other applicable laws; and

(iii) a continuing capacity to carry out the eligible activities in a timely manner;

(B) the Director has complied with the housing plan submitted by the Director under [section 4223 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4223); and

(C) the performance reports of the Department under section 4240 11 So in original. Probably should be section “4239”. of this title are accurate.

(2) Onsite visits Each review conducted under this section shall, to the extent practicable, include onsite visits by employees of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(b) Report by Secretary The Secretary shall give the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands not less than 30 days to review and comment on a report under this subsection. After taking into consideration the comments of the Department, the Secretary may revise the report and shall make the comments of the Department and the report with any revisions, readily available to the public not later than 30 days after receipt of the comments of the Department.

(c) Effect of reviews The Secretary may make appropriate adjustments in the amount of annual grants under this subchapter in accordance with the findings of the Secretary pursuant to reviews and audits under this section. The Secretary may adjust, reduce, or withdraw grant amounts, or take other action as appropriate in accordance with the reviews and audits of the Secretary under this section, except that grant amounts already expended on affordable housing activities may not be recaptured or deducted from future assistance provided to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.

*([Pub. L. 104–330, title VIII, § 821](/us/pl/104/330/tVIII/s821), as added [Pub. L. 106–568, title II, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/tII/s203), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2894](/us/stat/114/2894), and [Pub. L. 106–569, title V, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/tV/s513), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2988](/us/stat/114/2988).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 106–568, § 203](/us/pl/106/568/s203), and [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513), enacted identical sections 821 of [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330). This section is based on the text of [section 821 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s821), as added by [Pub. L. 106–569, § 513](/us/pl/106/569/s513).
