---
title: "§ 1910. Implementation of audit agreements"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1910"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1910"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–239, title I, § 110](/us/pl/99/239/tI/s110), Jan. 14, 1986, [99 Stat. 1798](/us/stat/99/1798).)"
---
# § 1910. Implementation of audit agreements

##### § 1910. Implementation of audit agreements

(a) Transmission of annual financial statement Upon receipt of the annual financial statement described in sections 1902(c)(4) and 1903(m)(4) of this title, the President shall promptly transmit a copy of such statement to the Congress.

(b) Annual audits by President

(1) The President shall cause an annual audit to be conducted of the annual financial statements described in sections 1902(c)(4) and 1903(m)(4) of this title. Such audit shall be conducted in accordance with the Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards promulgated by the Comptroller General of the United States. Such audit shall be submitted to the Congress not later than 180 days after the end of the United States fiscal year.

(2) The President shall develop and implement procedures to carry out such audits. Such procedures shall include the matters described in sections 1902(c)(2) and 1903(m)(2) of this title.

(c) Authority of GAO The Comptroller General of the United States shall have the authority to conduct the audits referred to in sections 1902(c)(1) and 1903(m)(1) of this title.

*([Pub. L. 99–239, title I, § 110](/us/pl/99/239/tI/s110), Jan. 14, 1986, [99 Stat. 1798](/us/stat/99/1798).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1681).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (b) of this section relating to the requirement that the annual audit be submitted to Congress, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and the 13th item on page 37 of House Document No. 103–7.
