---
title: "§ 3317. Fees"
identifier: "USC-T46-S3317"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section3317"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 517](/us/stat/97/517); [Pub. L. 102–587, title V, § 5211](/us/pl/102/587/tV/s5211), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5076](/us/stat/106/5076); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8513(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4761](/us/stat/134/4761).)"
---
# § 3317. Fees

##### § 3317. Fees

(a) The Secretary may prescribe by regulation fees for inspecting or examining a small passenger vessel or a sailing school vessel.

(b) When an inspection or examination under this part of a documented vessel or a foreign vessel is conducted at a foreign port or place at the request of the owner or managing operator of the vessel, the owner or operator shall reimburse the Secretary for the travel and subsistence expenses incurred by the personnel assigned to perform the inspection or examination. Amounts received as reimbursement for these expenses shall be credited to the appropriation for operations and support of the Coast Guard.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 517](/us/stat/97/517); [Pub. L. 102–587, title V, § 5211](/us/pl/102/587/tV/s5211), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5076](/us/stat/106/5076); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8513(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4761](/us/stat/134/4761).)*

Section 3317 provides the regulatory authority for prescribing fees for the inspection of small passenger vessels and sailing school vessels. Although section 2110 generally prohibits fees of this nature, this provision is consistent with the exception that permits specific statutory authorization for fee collection. Subsection (b) requires the reimbursement of expenses for the conduct of an inspection or examination at a foreign port or place when done there for the convenience of the owner or operator of the vessel.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 3317 | 46:390a(b)46:382b–1 |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “operations and support” for “operating expenses”.

1992—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–587](/us/pl/102/587) substituted “under this part of a documented vessel or a foreign vessel” for “under this chapter of a documented vessel”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Apr. 15, 1984, see [section 2(g)(1) of Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89/s2/g/1), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s3101).

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
