---
title: "§ 7641. Noise abatement"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7641"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7641"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title IV, § 402, as added [Pub. L. 91–604, § 14](/us/pl/91/604/s14), Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/84/1709).)"
---
# § 7641. Noise abatement

##### § 7641. Noise abatement

(a) Office of Noise Abatement and Control The Administrator shall establish within the Environmental Protection Agency an Office of Noise Abatement and Control, and shall carry out through such Office a full and complete investigation and study of noise and its effect on the public health and welfare in order to (1) identify and classify causes and sources of noise, and (2) determine—

(A) effects at various levels;

(B) projected growth of noise levels in urban areas through the year 2000;

(C) the psychological and physiological effect on humans;

(D) effects of sporadic extreme noise (such as jet noise near airports) as compared with constant noise;

(E) effect on wildlife and property (including values);

(F) effect of sonic booms on property (including values); and

(G) such other matters as may be of interest in the public welfare.

(b) Investigation techniques; report and recommendations In conducting such investigation, the Administrator shall hold public hearings, conduct research, experiments, demonstrations, and studies. The Administrator shall report the results of such investigation and study, together with his recommendations for legislation or other action, to the President and the Congress not later than one year after December 31, 1970.

(c) Abatement of noise from Federal activities In any case where any Federal department or agency is carrying out or sponsoring any activity resulting in noise which the Administrator determines amounts to a public nuisance or is otherwise objectionable, such department or agency shall consult with the Administrator to determine possible means of abating such noise.

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title IV, § 402, as added [Pub. L. 91–604, § 14](/us/pl/91/604/s14), Dec. 31, 1970, [84 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/84/1709).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Another section 402 of act July 14, 1955, as added by [Pub. L. 101–549, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/101/549/tIV/s401), Nov. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 2585](/us/stat/104/2585), is classified to [section 7651a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7651a).

Section was formerly classified to [section 1858 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1858).
