---
title: "§ 141. Establishment; boundaries"
identifier: "USC-T16-S141"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section141"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Jan. 9, 1903, ch. 63](/us/act/1903-01-09/ch63), §§ 1, 2, [32 Stat. 765](/us/stat/32/765).)"
---
# § 141. Establishment; boundaries

##### § 141. Establishment; boundaries

There are reserved from settlement, entry, sale, or other disposal, and set apart as a public park, all those certain tracts, pieces, or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of South Dakota and within the boundaries particularly described as follows: Beginning at the southeast corner of section 13, township 6 south, range 5 east, Black Hills meridian, South Dakota; thence westerly to the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of section 16, said township; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the northwest corner of the northeast quarter of section 4, said township; thence easterly to the southwest corner of section 34, township 5 south, range 5 east; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section; thence easterly to the northeast corner of section 31, township 5 south, range 6 east; thence southerly along the section lines to the southeast corner of section 7, township 6 south, range 6 east; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section; thence southerly to the southeast corner of section 13, township 6 south, range 5 east, the place of beginning. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect any valid rights acquired in connection with any of the lands embraced within the limits of said park which shall be known as Wind Cave National Park.

*([Jan. 9, 1903, ch. 63](/us/act/1903-01-09/ch63), §§ 1, 2, [32 Stat. 765](/us/stat/32/765).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

This section, with the exception of the last clause, which names the park, was from section 1 of act Jan. 9, 1903. The last clause was taken from section 2 of said act which section is also the source of [section 142 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s142).
