---
title: "§ 44933. Federal Security Managers 11 So in original. Probably should be “Directors”"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44933"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44933"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1216](/us/stat/108/1216); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I](/us/pl/107/71/tI), §§ 101(f)(4), 103, Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 603](/us/stat/115/603), 605; [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI), §§ 1989(a), 1991(d)(24), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3624](/us/stat/132/3624), 3637.)"
---
# § 44933. Federal Security Managers 11 So in original. Probably should be “Directors”

##### § 44933. Federal Security Managers 11 So in original. Probably should be “Directors”.

(a) Establishment, Designation, and Stationing.— The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall establish the position of Federal Security Director at each airport in the United States described in section 44903(c). The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall designate individuals as Federal Security Directors for, and station those Federal Security Directors at, those airports.

(b) Duties and Powers.— The Federal Security Director at each airport shall—

(1) oversee the screening of passengers and property at the airport; and

(2) carry out other duties prescribed by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.

(c) Information Sharing.— Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the TSA Modernization Act, the Administrator shall—

(1) require each Federal Security Director of an airport to meet at least quarterly with the airport director, airport security coordinator, and law enforcement agencies serving each such airport to discuss incident management protocols, including the resolution of screening anomalies at passenger screening checkpoints; and

(2) require each Federal Security Director at an airport to inform, consult, and coordinate, as appropriate, with the respective airport security coordinator in a timely manner on security matters impacting airport operations and to establish and maintain operational protocols with such airport operators to ensure coordinated responses to security matters.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1216](/us/stat/108/1216); [Pub. L. 107–71, title I](/us/pl/107/71/tI), §§ 101(f)(4), 103, Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 603](/us/stat/115/603), 605; [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI), §§ 1989(a), 1991(d)(24), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3624](/us/stat/132/3624), 3637.)*

In subsection (a), the words “Not later than 90 days after November 16, 1990” are omitted as obsolete. The words “The Administrator shall designate individuals as Managers for, and station those Managers at, those airports” are substituted for “and shall begin designating persons as such Managers and stationing such Managers at such airports” for clarity and because of the restatement. The words “and designate a current field employee of the Administration as a Manager” are substituted for “assign the functions and responsibilities described in this section to existing Federal Aviation Administration field personnel and designate such personnel accordingly” to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “to the office of” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “Not later than 1 year after November 16, 1990” are omitted as obsolete. The words “Secretary of Transportation” are substituted for “Department of Transportation” because of 49:102.

In subsection (b), before clause (1), the words “The Manager at each airport shall” are substituted for “The responsibilities of a Federal Security Manager shall include the following” to eliminate unnecessary words. In clause (2)(A), the words “air carrier” are substituted for “such air carrier” because this is the first time the term is used in the source provisions. In clause (3), the words “United States Government” are substituted for “Federal” for clarity and consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code. In clause (7), the words “other Managers” are substituted for “Federal Security Managers at other airports, as appropriate” to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (c), the words “duties and powers” are substituted for “responsibilities” for clarity and consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 44933(a) | 49 App.:1358b(a)(1), (2), (4). | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, 72 Stat. 731, § 319(a); added Nov. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101–604, § 104, 104 Stat. 3070. |
| 44933(b) | 49 App.:1358b(a)(3). |  |
| 44933(c) | 49 App.:1358b(a)(5). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the TSA Modernization Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is the date of the enactment of title I of div. K of [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254), which was approved Oct. 5, 2018.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(24)(C)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/24/C), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall designate” for “Under Secretary shall designate”.

[Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(24)(A)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/24/A), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall establish” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security shall establish”, “Federal Security Director” for “Federal Security Manager”, and, in two places, “Federal Security Directors” for “Managers”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(24)(B)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/24/B), substituted “Federal Security Director” for “Manager” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(24)(C)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/24/C), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1989(a)](/us/pl/115/254/s1989/a), added subsec. (c).

2001—[Pub. L. 107–71, § 103](/us/pl/107/71/s103), amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to designation, establishment, and stationing procedures and duties and powers for provisions which contained a more detailed listing of responsibilities and a prohibition against a Civil Aviation Security Field Officer being assigned security duties and powers at an airport having a Manager.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 101(f)(4)](/us/pl/107/71/s101/f/4), substituted “Under Secretary” for “Assistant Administrator for Civil Aviation Security”.
