---
title: "§ 2505. Special advisory committees; membership; reimbursement"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1294](/us/stat/82/1294).)"
---
# § 2505. Special advisory committees; membership; reimbursement

##### § 2505. Special advisory committees; membership; reimbursement

The Commission may establish special advisory committees to consult with and make recommendations to it, from among the leading historians, political scientists, archivists, librarians, and other specialists of the Nation. Members of special advisory committees shall be reimbursed for transportation and other expenses on the same basis as members of the Commission.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1294](/us/stat/82/1294).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 393(e) ([June 30, 1949, ch. 288](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288), title V, § 503, as added [Sept. 5, 1950, ch. 849, § 6(d)](/us/act/1950-09-05/ch849/s6/d), [64 Stat. 583](/us/stat/64/583), and amended July 28, 1964, [Pub. L. 88–383](/us/pl/88/383), [78 Stat. 335](/us/stat/78/335)).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Advisory Committee on Founding Fathers Editorial Projects

[Pub. L. 110–404, § 5](/us/pl/110/404/s5), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4283](/us/stat/122/4283), which authorized the Archivist of the United States to establish an Advisory Committee on Founding Fathers Editorial Projects to review the progress of Founding Fathers editorial projects and to develop, review, and report on appropriate completion goals for such projects, terminated on Oct. 13, 2016.
