---
title: "§ 3057e–1. Distribution of funds among tribal organizations"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3057e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3057e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–73, title VI, § 614A](/us/pl/89/73/tVI/s614A), as added [Pub. L. 102–375, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/102/375/tVI/s602), Sept. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/106/1270); amended [Pub. L. 103–171, § 3(a)(13)](/us/pl/103/171/s3/a/13), Dec. 2, 1993, [107 Stat. 1990](/us/stat/107/1990); [Pub. L. 109–365, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/109/365/tVI/s601/a), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2590](/us/stat/120/2590).)"
---
# § 3057e–1. Distribution of funds among tribal organizations

##### § 3057e–1. Distribution of funds among tribal organizations

(a) Maintenance of 1991 amounts Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out this part, the amount of the grant (if any) made under this part to a tribal organization for fiscal year 1992 and for each subsequent fiscal year shall be not less than the amount of the grant made under this part to the tribal organization for fiscal year 1991.

(b) Use of additional amounts appropriated If the funds appropriated to carry out this part in a fiscal year subsequent to fiscal year 1991 exceed the funds appropriated to carry out this part in fiscal year 1991, then the amount of the grant (if any) made under this part to a tribal organization for the subsequent fiscal year shall be—

(1) increased by such amount as the Assistant Secretary considers to be appropriate, in addition to the amount of any increase required by subsection (a), so that the grant equals or more closely approaches the amount of the grant made under this part to the tribal organization for fiscal year 1980; or

(2) an amount the Assistant Secretary considers to be sufficient if the tribal organization did not receive a grant under this part for either fiscal year 1980 or fiscal year 1991.

(c) Clarification

(1) Definition In this subsection, the term “covered year” means fiscal year 2006 or a subsequent fiscal year.

(2) Consortia of tribal organizations If a tribal organization received a grant under this part for fiscal year 1991 as part of a consortium, the Assistant Secretary shall consider the tribal organization to have received a grant under this part for fiscal year 1991 for purposes of subsections (a) and (b), and shall apply the provisions of subsections (a) and (b)(1) (under the conditions described in subsection (b)) to the tribal organization for each covered year for which the tribal organization submits an application under this part, even if the tribal organization submits—

(A) a separate application from the remaining members of the consortium; or

(B) an application as 1 of the remaining members of the consortium.

*([Pub. L. 89–73, title VI, § 614A](/us/pl/89/73/tVI/s614A), as added [Pub. L. 102–375, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/102/375/tVI/s602), Sept. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/106/1270); amended [Pub. L. 103–171, § 3(a)(13)](/us/pl/103/171/s3/a/13), Dec. 2, 1993, [107 Stat. 1990](/us/stat/107/1990); [Pub. L. 109–365, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/109/365/tVI/s601/a), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2590](/us/stat/120/2590).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 109–365](/us/pl/109/365) added subsec. (c).

1993—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–171](/us/pl/103/171) substituted “Assistant Secretary” for “Commissioner” in pars. (1) and (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

[Pub. L. 109–365, title VI, § 601(b)](/us/pl/109/365/tVI/s601/b), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2590](/us/stat/120/2590), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to grants awarded under part A of title VI of the Older Americans Act of 1965 ([42 U.S.C. 3057b](/us/usc/t42/s3057b) et seq.) during the grant period beginning April 1, 2008, and all subsequent grant periods.”
