---
title: "§ 890. Homestead entries on railroad lands prior to withdrawal or after restoration to market confirmed"
identifier: "USC-T43-S890"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section890"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Apr. 21, 1876, ch. 72, § 1](/us/act/1876-04-21/ch72/s1), [19 Stat. 35](/us/stat/19/35); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 890. Homestead entries on railroad lands prior to withdrawal or after restoration to market confirmed

##### § 890. Homestead entries on railroad lands prior to withdrawal or after restoration to market confirmed

All preemption and homestead entries, or entries in compliance with any law of the United States, of the public lands, made in good faith, by actual settlers, upon tracts of land of not more than one hundred and sixty acres each, within the limits of any land grant, prior to the time when notice of the withdrawal of the lands embraced in such grant was received at the local land office of the district in which such lands are situated, or after their restoration to market by order of the Bureau of Land Management, and where the preemption and homestead laws have been complied with, and proper proofs thereof have been made by the parties holding such tracts or parcels, shall be confirmed, and patents for the same shall issue to the parties entitled thereto.

*([Apr. 21, 1876, ch. 72, § 1](/us/act/1876-04-21/ch72/s1), [19 Stat. 35](/us/stat/19/35); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

“Bureau of Land Management” substituted for “General Land Office” on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946. See note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1).
