---
title: "§ 674. Librarian"
identifier: "USC-T28-S674"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section674"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 919](/us/stat/62/919); [Pub. L. 92–310, title II, § 206(d)](/us/pl/92/310/tII/s206/d), June 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 203](/us/stat/86/203).)"
---
# § 674. Librarian

##### § 674. Librarian

(a) The Supreme Court may appoint a librarian, whose salary it shall fix, and who shall be subject to removal by the Court.

(b) The librarian shall, with the approval of the Chief Justice, appoint necessary assistants and fix their compensation and make rules governing the use of the library.

(c) He shall select and acquire by purchase, gift, bequest, or exchange, such books, pamphlets, periodicals, microfilm and other processed copy as may be required by the Court for its official use and for the reasonable needs of its bar.

(d) The librarian shall certify to the marshal for payment vouchers covering expenditures for the purchase of such books and other material, and for binding, rebinding and repairing the same.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 919](/us/stat/62/919); [Pub. L. 92–310, title II, § 206(d)](/us/pl/92/310/tII/s206/d), June 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 203](/us/stat/86/203).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

This section gives statutory recognition to the office of librarian. For many years the Court has appointed its librarian directly through the Chief Justice, rather than through the marshal. Other members of the library staff are appointed by the librarian, with the approval of the Chief Justice.

Under this section the marshal will not be required to certify to expenditures for some 2,000 books bought for the library each year but this will be the duty of the librarian.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1972—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 92–310](/us/pl/92/310) struck out sentence which required the librarian to furnish a bond.
