---
title: "§ 8543. Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and National Weather Service exchange program"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8543"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8543"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–25, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/115/25/tIV/s403), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 107](/us/stat/131/107).)"
---
# § 8543. Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and National Weather Service exchange program

##### § 8543. Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and National Weather Service exchange program

(a) In general The Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and the Director of National 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. Weather Service may establish a program to detail Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research personnel to the National Weather Service and National Weather Service personnel to the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research.

(b) Goal The goal of this program is to enhance forecasting innovation through regular, direct interaction between the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research’s world-class scientists and the National Weather Service’s operational staff.

(c) Elements The program shall allow up to 10 Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research staff and National Weather Service staff to spend up to 1 year on detail. Candidates shall be jointly selected by the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and the Director of the National Weather Service.

(d) Annual report Not less frequently than once each year, the Under Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a report on participation in such program and shall highlight any innovations that come from this interaction.

*([Pub. L. 115–25, title IV, § 403](/us/pl/115/25/tIV/s403), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 107](/us/stat/131/107).)*
