---
title: "§ 4120. Training for employees of the Capitol Police"
identifier: "USC-T5-S4120"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section4120"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1010(a)](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1010/a), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 360](/us/stat/117/360); amended [Pub. L. 119–37, div. C, title I, § 118(a)](/us/pl/119/37/dC/tI/s118/a), Nov. 12, 2025, [139 Stat. 573](/us/stat/139/573).)"
---
# § 4120. Training for employees of the Capitol Police

##### § 4120. Training for employees of the Capitol Police

(a) The Chief of the Capitol Police may, by regulation, make applicable such provisions of this chapter as the Chief determines necessary to provide for training of employees of the Capitol Police. The regulations shall provide for training which, in the determination of the Chief, is consistent with the training provided by agencies under the preceding sections of this chapter.

(b) The Office of Personnel Management shall provide the Chief of the Capitol Police with such advice and assistance as the Chief may request in order to enable the Chief to carry out the purposes of this section.

(c) An employee of the Capitol Police may receive training under this section outside of the United States only with the prior approval of the Capitol Police Board. In this subsection, the term “United States” means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the territories and possessions of the United States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1010(a)](/us/pl/108/7/dH/tI/s1010/a), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 360](/us/stat/117/360); amended [Pub. L. 119–37, div. C, title I, § 118(a)](/us/pl/119/37/dC/tI/s118/a), Nov. 12, 2025, [139 Stat. 573](/us/stat/139/573).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 119–37](/us/pl/119/37) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2025 Amendment

[Pub. L. 119–37, div. C, title I, § 118(b)](/us/pl/119/37/dC/tI/s118/b), Nov. 12, 2025, [139 Stat. 573](/us/stat/139/573), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2026 and each succeeding fiscal year.”
