---
title: "§ 285f–1. Research centers regarding chronic fatigue syndrome"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285f–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285f–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 447, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/103/43/tIX/s902/a), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 164](/us/stat/107/164).)"
---
# § 285f–1. Research centers regarding chronic fatigue syndrome

##### § 285f–1. Research centers regarding chronic fatigue syndrome

(a) The Director of the Institute, after consultation with the advisory council for the Institute, may make grants to, or enter into contracts with, public or nonprofit private entities for the development and operation of centers to conduct basic and clinical research on chronic fatigue syndrome.

(b) Each center assisted under this section shall use the facilities of a single institution, or be formed from a consortium of cooperating institutions, meeting such requirements as may be prescribed by the Director of the Institute.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 447, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/103/43/tIX/s902/a), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 164](/us/stat/107/164).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Another section 447 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 447A and is classified to [section 285f–2 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s285f–2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Extramural Study Section

[Pub. L. 103–43, title IX, § 902(b)](/us/pl/103/43/tIX/s902/b), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 164](/us/stat/107/164), provided that: “Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act [June 10, 1993], the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish an extramural study section for chronic fatigue syndrome research.”

#### Research Activities on Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

[Pub. L. 103–43, title XIX, § 1903](/us/pl/103/43/tXIX/s1903), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 203](/us/stat/107/203), directed Secretary of Health and Human Services to, not later than Oct. 1, 1993, and annually thereafter for next 3 years, prepare and submit to Congress a report that summarizes research activities conducted or supported by National Institutes of Health concerning chronic fatigue syndrome, with information concerning grants made, cooperative agreements or contracts entered into, intramural activities, research priorities and needs, and plan to address such priorities and needs.
