---
title: "§ 6931. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6931"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6931"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 225](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s225), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3213](/us/stat/108/3213); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. A, title VII, § 772(a)(2)](/us/pl/115/141/dA/tVII/s772/a/2), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 397](/us/stat/132/397).)"
---
# § 6931. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation

##### § 6931. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation

(a) Authorization The Secretary is authorized to establish in the Department the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation.

(b) Confirmation required If the Secretary establishes the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation authorized under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

(c) Functions of Undersecretary 11 So in original. Probably should be “Under Secretary”. The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and Conservation shall perform such functions and duties as the Secretary shall prescribe.

(d) Succession Any official who is serving as Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services on March 23, 2018, and who was appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall not be required to be reappointed under subsection (b) to the successor position authorized under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 225](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s225), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3213](/us/stat/108/3213); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. A, title VII, § 772(a)(2)](/us/pl/115/141/dA/tVII/s772/a/2), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 397](/us/stat/132/397).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 225 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s225). Subsec. (e) of [section 225 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s225) amended [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees, and repealed [section 5691 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s5691).

Another [section 225 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s225) is classified to [section 6925 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6925).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–141](/us/pl/115/141) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services.
