---
title: "§ 12645f. Restrictions on Federal Government and use of Federal funds"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12645f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12645f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 189C](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s189C), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1612](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1612), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1540](/us/stat/123/1540).)"
---
# § 12645f. Restrictions on Federal Government and use of Federal funds

##### § 12645f. Restrictions on Federal Government and use of Federal funds

(a) General prohibition Nothing in the national service laws shall be construed to authorize an officer or employee of the Federal Government to mandate, direct, or control a State, local educational agency, or school’s curriculum, program of instruction, or allocation of State or local resources, or mandate a State or any subdivision thereof to spend any funds or incur any costs not paid for under this chapter.

(b) Prohibition on endorsement of curriculum Notwithstanding any other prohibition of Federal law, no funds provided to the Corporation under this chapter may be used by the Corporation to endorse, approve, or sanction any curriculum designed to be used in an elementary school or secondary school.

(c) Prohibition on requiring Federal approval or certification standards Notwithstanding any other provision of Federal law, not 11 So in original. Probably should be “no”. State shall be required to have academic content or student academic achievement standards approved or certified by the Federal Government, in order to receive assistance under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 189C](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s189C), as added [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1612](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1612), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1540](/us/stat/123/1540).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 101–610](/us/pl/101/610), Nov. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 3127](/us/stat/104/3127), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 12501 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12501) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).
