---
title: "§ 925. Procedure for the determination of claims during transition period"
identifier: "USC-T30-S925"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section925"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–173, title IV, § 415](/us/pl/91/173/tIV/s415), as added [Pub. L. 92–303, § 7](/us/pl/92/303/s7), May 19, 1972, [86 Stat. 156](/us/stat/86/156); amended [Pub. L. 97–119, title I, § 104(b)(2)](/us/pl/97/119/tI/s104/b/2), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1639](/us/stat/95/1639); [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095); [Pub. L. 103–296, title I, § 108(i)(2)](/us/pl/103/296/tI/s108/i/2), Aug. 15, 1994, [108 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/108/1488); [Pub"
---
# § 925. Procedure for the determination of claims during transition period

##### § 925. Procedure for the determination of claims during transition period

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision in this subchapter, for the purpose of assuring the uninterrupted receipt of benefits by claimants at such time as responsibility for administration of the benefits program is assumed by either a State workmen’s compensation agency or the Secretary of Labor, any claim for benefits under this part filed during the period from July 1, 1973 to December 31, 1973, shall be considered and determined in accordance with the procedures of this section. With respect to any such claim—

(1) Such claim shall be determined and, where appropriate under this part or [section 9501(d) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s9501/d), benefits shall be paid with respect to such claim by the Secretary of Labor.

(2) The Secretary of Labor shall promptly notify any operator who he believes, on the basis of information contained in the claim, or any other information available to him, may be liable to pay benefits to the claimant under part C of this subchapter for any month after December 31, 1973.

(3) In determining such claims, the Secretary of Labor shall, to the extent appropriate, follow the procedures described in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of [section 919 of title 33](/us/usc/t33/s919).

(4) Any operator who has been notified of the pendency of a claim under paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be bound by the determination of the Secretary of Labor on such claim as if the claim had been filed pursuant to part C of this subchapter and [section 932 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s932) had been applicable to such operator. Nothing in this paragraph shall require any operator to pay any benefits for any month prior to January 1, 1974.

(b) The Secretary of Labor may issue such regulations as are necessary or appropriate to carry out the purpose of this section.

*([Pub. L. 91–173, title IV, § 415](/us/pl/91/173/tIV/s415), as added [Pub. L. 92–303, § 7](/us/pl/92/303/s7), May 19, 1972, [86 Stat. 156](/us/stat/86/156); amended [Pub. L. 97–119, title I, § 104(b)(2)](/us/pl/97/119/tI/s104/b/2), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1639](/us/stat/95/1639); [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095); [Pub. L. 103–296, title I, § 108(i)(2)](/us/pl/103/296/tI/s108/i/2), Aug. 15, 1994, [108 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/108/1488); [Pub. L. 107–275, § 2(b)(3)](/us/pl/107/275/s2/b/3), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1925](/us/stat/116/1925).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (a)(2) to (5). [Pub. L. 107–275, § 2(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/107/275/s2/b/3/A), redesignated pars. (3) to (5) as (2) to (4), respectively, substituted “paragraph (2)” for “paragraph 4” in par. (4), and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “The manner and place of filing such claim shall be in accordance with regulations issued jointly by the Commissioner of Social Security and the Secretary of Labor, which regulations shall provide, among other things, that such claims may be filed in district offices of the Social Security Administration and thereafter transferred to the jurisdiction of the Department of Labor for further consideration.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–275, § 2(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/107/275/s2/b/3/B), struck out “, after consultation with the Commissioner of Social Security,” after “Secretary of Labor”.

1994—Subsecs. (a)(2), (b). [Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296) substituted “Commissioner of Social Security” for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare”.

1986—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”, which for purposes of codification was translated as “title 26” thus requiring no change in text.

1981—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 97–119](/us/pl/97/119) substituted “[section 9501(d) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s9501/d)” for “[section 934 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s934)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–275](/us/pl/107/275) effective 90 days after Nov. 2, 2002, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 107–275](/us/pl/107/275/s4), set out as a note under [section 902 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s902).

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296) effective Mar. 31, 1995, see [section 110(a) of Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296/s110/a), set out as a note under [section 401 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s401), The Public Health and Welfare.
