---
title: "§ 14501. Appalachian development highway system"
identifier: "USC-T40-S14501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section14501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1265](/us/stat/116/1265); [Pub. L. 108–199, div. F, title I, § 123(a)](/us/pl/108/199/dF/tI/s123/a), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 296](/us/stat/118/296).)"
---
# § 14501. Appalachian development highway system

##### § 14501. Appalachian development highway system

(a) Purpose.— To provide a highway system which, in conjunction with the Interstate System and other Federal-aid highways in the Appalachian region, will open up an area with a developmental potential where commerce and communication have been inhibited by lack of adequate access, the Secretary of Transportation may assist in the construction of an Appalachian development highway system and local access roads serving the Appalachian region. Construction on the development highway system shall not be more than three thousand and ninety miles. There shall not be more than 1,400 miles of local access roads that serve specific recreational, residential, educational, commercial, industrial, or similar facilities or facilitate a school consolidation program.

(b) Commission Designations.—

(1) What is to be designated.— The Appalachian Regional Commission shall transmit to the Secretary its designations of—

(A) the general corridor location and termini of the development highways;

(B) local access roads to be constructed;

(C) priorities for the construction of segments of the development highways; and

(D) other criteria for the program authorized by this section.

(2) State transportation department recommendation required.— Before a state member participates in or votes on designations, the member must obtain the recommendations of the state transportation department of the State which the member represents.

(c) Addition to Federal-aid Primary System.— When completed, each development highway not already on the Federal-aid primary system shall be added to the system.

(d) Use of Specific Materials and Products.—

(1) Indigenous materials and products.— In the construction of highways and roads authorized under this section, a State may give special preference to the use of materials and products indigenous to the Appalachian region.

(2) Coal derivatives.— For research and development in the use of coal and coal products in highway construction and maintenance, the Secretary may require each participating State, to the maximum extent possible, to use coal derivatives in the construction of not more than 10 percent of the roads authorized under this subtitle.

(e) Federal Share.— Federal assistance to any construction project under this section shall not be more than 80 percent of the cost of the project.

(f) Construction Without Federal Amounts.—

(1) Payment of federal share.— When a participating State constructs a segment of a development highway without the aid of federal amounts and the construction is in accordance with all procedures and requirements applicable to the construction of segments of Appalachian development highways with those amounts, except for procedures and requirements that limit a State to the construction of projects for which federal amounts have previously been appropriated, the Secretary, on application by the State and with the approval of the Commission, may pay to the State the federal share, which shall not be more than 80 percent of the cost of the construction of the segment, from any amounts appropriated and allocated to the State to carry out this section.

(2) No commitment or obligation.— This subsection does not commit or obligate the Federal Government to provide amounts for segments of development highways constructed under this subsection.

(g) Application of Title 23.—

(1) Sections 106(a) and 118.— Sections 106(a) and 118 of title 23 apply to the development highway system and the local access roads.

(2) Construction and maintenance.— States are required to maintain each development highway and local access road as provided for Federal-aid highways in title 23. All other provisions of title 23 that are applicable to the construction and maintenance of Federal-aid primary and secondary highways and which the Secretary decides are not inconsistent with this subtitle shall apply to the system and roads, respectively.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1265](/us/stat/116/1265); [Pub. L. 108–199, div. F, title I, § 123(a)](/us/pl/108/199/dF/tI/s123/a), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 296](/us/stat/118/296).)*

In subsection (c), the text of 40 App.:201(c) (1st sentence) is omitted as obsolete because appropriations were not authorized under 40 App.:201(g) after fiscal year 1982.

In subsection (e), the text of 40 App.:201(g) is omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 14501(a) | 40 App.:201(a) (1st, 3d, last sentences). | Pub. L. 89–4, title II, § 201, Mar. 9, 1965, 79 Stat. 10; Pub. L. 89–670, § 8(b), Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 942; Pub. L. 90–103, title I, § 106, Oct. 11, 1967, 81 Stat. 258; Pub. L. 91–123, title I, § 103, Nov. 25, 1969, 83 Stat. 214; Pub. L. 92–65, title II, § 204, Aug. 5, 1971, 85 Stat. 168; Pub. L. 94–188, title I, § 110, Dec. 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 1081; Pub. L. 95–599, title I, § 138(a), (b), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2710; Pub. L. 96–506, § 3(3), Dec. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 2746; Pub. L. 97–35, title XVIII, § 1822(a)(2), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 767; Pub. L. 105–178, title I, § 1117(c), title II, § 1212(a)(2)(B)(iii), June 9, 1998, 112 Stat. 160, 193. |
| 14501(b) | 40 App.:201(b). |  |
| 14501(c) | 40 App.:201(c) (1st sentence, last sentence words before “and each”). |  |
| 14501(d)(1) | 40 App.:201(d). |  |
| 14501(d)(2) | 40 App.:201(e). |  |
| 14501(e) | 40 App.:201(f), (g). |  |
| 14501(f) | 40 App.:201(h). |  |
| 14501(g)(1) | 40 App.:201(a) (2d sentence words before 6th comma). |  |
| 14501(g)(2) | 40 App.:201(a) (2d sentence words after 6th comma), (c) (last sentence words after “to such system”). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–199](/us/pl/108/199), which directed substitution of “three thousand and ninety” for “three thousand and twenty-five” in third sentence, was executed by substituting “three thousand and ninety” for “3,025” in second sentence of subsec. (a) to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Appalachian Development Highway System

[Pub. L. 112–141, div. A, title I, § 1528](/us/pl/112/141/dA/tI/s1528), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 582](/us/stat/126/582), as amended by [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title I, § 1435](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tI/s1435), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1430](/us/stat/129/1430), provided that: “(a) Sense of the Senate.—It is the Sense of the Senate that the timely completion of the Appalachian development highway system is a transportation priority in the national interest. “(b) Modified Federal Share for Projects on ADHS.—For fiscal years 2012 through 2050, the Federal share payable for the cost of constructing highways and access roads on the Appalachian development highway system under [section 14501 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s14501), United States Code, with funds made available to a State for fiscal year 2012 or a previous fiscal year for the Appalachian development highway system program, or with funds made available for fiscal year 2012 or a previous fiscal year for a specific project, route, or corridor on that system, shall be up to 100 percent, as determined by the State. “(c) Federal Share for Other Funds Used on ADHS.—For fiscal years 2012 through 2050, the Federal share payable for the cost of constructing highways and access roads on the Appalachian development highway system under [section 14501 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s14501), United States Code, with Federal funds apportioned to a State for a program other than the Appalachian development highway system program shall be up to 100 percent, as determined by the State. “(d) Completion Plan.—“(1) In general.—Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the MAP–21 [deemed to be Oct. 1, 2012], each State represented on the Appalachian Regional Commission shall establish a plan for the completion of the designated corridors of the Appalachian development highway system within the State, including annual performance targets, with a target completion date. “(2) Significant uncompleted miles.—If the percentage of remaining Appalachian development highway system needs for a State, according to the latest cost to complete estimate for the Appalachian development highway system, is greater than 15 percent of the total cost to complete estimate for the entire Appalachian development highway system, the State shall not establish a plan under paragraph (1) that would result in a reduction of obligated funds for the Appalachian development highway system within the State for any subsequent fiscal year.”
