---
title: "§ 3424. Nonreimbursed costs"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3424"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3424"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–132, § 5](/us/pl/97/132/s5), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/95/1695); [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title XII, § 1211](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tXII/s1211), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/115/1248).)"
---
# § 3424. Nonreimbursed costs

##### § 3424. Nonreimbursed costs

(a) Administrative and technical support and services Any agency of the United States Government is authorized to provide administrative and technical support and services to the Multinational Force and Observers, without reimbursement and upon such terms and conditions as the President may direct, when the provision of such support or services would not result in significant incremental costs to the United States.

(b) Costs to be kept at minimum level The provision by the United States to the Multinational Force and Observers under the authority of this subchapter or any other law of any property, support, or services, including the provision of military and civilian personnel under [section 3422 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3422), on other than a reimbursable basis shall be kept to a minimum.

(c) Military training of armed forces of other countries The President may provide military training to members of the armed forces of other countries participating in the Multinational Force and Observers.

(d) Contractors

(1) The United States may use contractors to provide logistical support to the Multinational Force and Observers under this section in lieu of providing such support through a logistical support unit comprised of members of the United States Armed Forces.

(2) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) and [section 3426(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3426/b), support by a contractor under this subsection may be provided without reimbursement whenever the President determines that such action enhances or supports the national security interests of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 97–132, § 5](/us/pl/97/132/s5), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/95/1695); [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title XII, § 1211](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tXII/s1211), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1248](/us/stat/115/1248).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2001—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 107–107](/us/pl/107/107) added subsec. (d).
