---
title: "§ 5535. Development of requirements to support integrated air and missile defense capabilities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S5535"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section5535"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1649(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1649/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2196](/us/stat/138/2196).)"
---
# § 5535. Development of requirements to support integrated air and missile defense capabilities

##### § 5535. Development of requirements to support integrated air and missile defense capabilities

(a) In General.— Consistent with the memorandum of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of January 27, 2014, regarding joint integrated air and missile defense, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall oversee the development of warfighter requirements for persistent and survivable capabilities to detect, identify, determine the status, track, and support engagement of strategically important mobile or relocatable assets in all phases of conflict in order to achieve the objective of preventing the effective employment of such assets, including through offensive actions against such assets prior to their use.

(b) Purpose of Requirements.— The requirements developed pursuant to subsection (a) shall be used and updated, as appropriate, for the purpose of informing applicable acquisition programs and systems-of-systems architecture planning that are funded through the Military Intelligence Program, the National Intelligence Program, and non-intelligence programs.

(c) Supporting Activities.— The Vice Chairman shall also oversee the development of the enabling framework for intelligence support for integrated air and missile defense, including concepts for the integrated operation of multiple systems, and, as appropriate, the development of requirements for capabilities to be acquired to achieve such integrated operations.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1649(a)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1649/a), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2196](/us/stat/138/2196).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5535, [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 319](/us/stat/70A/319), required evidence of age for enlistment of minors in Regular Navy as seamen, seamen apprentices or seamen recruits, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 90–235, § 2(a)(3)](/us/pl/90/235/s2/a/3), (b), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 756](/us/stat/81/756).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title XVI, § 1687](/us/pl/114/92/dA/tXVI/s1687), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1143](/us/stat/129/1143), which was set out in a note under [section 4205 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4205), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVI, § 1649(b)(8)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVI/s1649/b/8), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2199](/us/stat/138/2199).
