---
title: "§ 419. Delivery of notes prior to delivery to banks"
identifier: "USC-T12-S419"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section419"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 16](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s16) (par.), [38 Stat. 267](/us/stat/38/267); [May 29, 1920, ch. 214, § 1](/us/act/1920-05-29/ch214/s1), [41 Stat. 654](/us/stat/41/654); [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(4)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/4), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2293](/us/stat/108/2293).)"
---
# § 419. Delivery of notes prior to delivery to banks

##### § 419. Delivery of notes prior to delivery to banks

When such notes have been prepared, the notes shall be delivered to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System subject to the order of the Secretary of the Treasury for the delivery of such notes in accordance with this chapter.

*([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 16](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s16) (par.), [38 Stat. 267](/us/stat/38/267); [May 29, 1920, ch. 214, § 1](/us/act/1920-05-29/ch214/s1), [41 Stat. 654](/us/stat/41/654); [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(4)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/4), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2293](/us/stat/108/2293).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6), [38 Stat. 251](/us/stat/38/251), as amended, known as the Federal Reserve Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under [section 226 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s226) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of the eighth par. (formerly the ninth par.) of section 16 of act Dec. 23, 1913. For classification to this title of other pars. of section 16, see Codification note set out under [section 411 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s411).

On authority of act May 29, 1920, which abolished offices of Assistant Treasurers and distributed their functions, “designated depositary” substituted for “subtreasury” in 1926 ed. of the Code.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–325](/us/pl/103/325), which directed general amendment of “[t]he 9th undesignated paragraph of section 16 of the Federal Reserve Act ([12 U.S.C. 419](/us/usc/t12/s419))”, was executed to this section to reflect the probable intent of Congress. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “When such notes have been prepared, they shall be deposited in the Treasury, or in the designated depositary or mint of the United States nearest the place of business of each Federal reserve bank and shall be held for the use of such bank subject to the order of the Comptroller of the Currency for their delivery, as provided by this chapter.”
