---
title: "§ 701c–3. Lease receipts; payment of portion to States"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701c–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701c–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Aug. 18, 1941, ch. 377, § 7](/us/act/1941-08-18/ch377/s7), [55 Stat. 650](/us/stat/55/650); [July 24, 1946, ch. 596, § 5](/us/act/1946-07-24/ch596/s5), [60 Stat. 642](/us/stat/60/642); [June 16, 1953, ch. 114](/us/act/1953-06-16/ch114), [67 Stat. 61](/us/stat/67/61); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1264](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1264), title II, § 206, [68 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/68/1266); [Pub. L. 102–486, title XXV, § 2506(c)](/us/pl/102/486/tXXV/s2506/c), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3107](/us/stat/106/3107).)"
---
# § 701c–3. Lease receipts; payment of portion to States

##### § 701c–3. Lease receipts; payment of portion to States

75 per centum of all moneys received and deposited in the Treasury of the United States during any fiscal year on account of the leasing of lands acquired by the United States for flood control, navigation, and allied purposes, including the development of hydroelectric power, shall be paid at the end of such year by the Secretary of the Treasury to the State in which such property is situated, to be expended as the State legislature may prescribe for the benefit of public schools and public roads of the county, or counties, in which such property is situated, or for defraying any of the expenses of county government in such county or counties, including public obligations of levee and drainage districts for flood control and drainage improvements: *Provided*, That when such property is situated in more than one State or county, the distributive share to each from the proceeds of such property shall be proportional to its area therein. For the purposes of this section, the term “money” includes, but is not limited to, such bonuses, royalties and rentals (and any interest or other charge paid to the United States by reason of the late payment of any royalty, rent, bonus or other amount due to the United States) paid to the United States from a mineral lease issued under the authority of the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands [[30 U.S.C. 351](/us/usc/t30/s351) et seq.] or paid to the United States from a mineral lease in existence at the time of the acquisition of the land by the United States.

*([Aug. 18, 1941, ch. 377, § 7](/us/act/1941-08-18/ch377/s7), [55 Stat. 650](/us/stat/55/650); [July 24, 1946, ch. 596, § 5](/us/act/1946-07-24/ch596/s5), [60 Stat. 642](/us/stat/60/642); [June 16, 1953, ch. 114](/us/act/1953-06-16/ch114), [67 Stat. 61](/us/stat/67/61); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1264](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1264), title II, § 206, [68 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/68/1266); [Pub. L. 102–486, title XXV, § 2506(c)](/us/pl/102/486/tXXV/s2506/c), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3107](/us/stat/106/3107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 513](/us/act/1947-08-07/ch513), [61 Stat. 913](/us/stat/61/913), which is classified generally to chapter 7 (§ 351 et seq.) of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 351 of Title 30](/us/usc/t30/s351) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–486](/us/pl/102/486) inserted sentence at end defining term “money” for purposes of this section.

1954—Act Sept. 3, 1954, extended the 75 percent rental provision so as also to include moneys received and deposited with respect to the leasing of lands acquired for navigation and allied purposes.

1953—Act June 16, 1953, inserted “or for defraying any of the expenses of county government in such county or counties, including public obligations of levee and drainage districts for flood control and drainage improvements” after “situated”.

1946—Act July 24, 1946, increased the percentage return to the States from 25 percent to 75 percent.
