---
title: "§ 15107. National Navigation Safety Advisory Committee"
identifier: "USC-T46-S15107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section15107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4285](/us/stat/132/4285).)"
---
# § 15107. National Navigation Safety Advisory Committee

##### § 15107. National Navigation Safety Advisory Committee

(a) Establishment.— There is established a National Navigation Safety Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(b) Function.— The Committee shall advise the Secretary on matters relating to maritime collisions, rammings, and groundings, Inland Rules of the Road, International Rules of the Road, navigation regulations and equipment, routing measures, marine information, and aids to navigation systems.

(c) Membership.—

(1) In general.— The Committee shall consist of not more than 21 members appointed by the Secretary in accordance with this section and section 15109 of this chapter.

(2) Expertise.— Each member of the Committee shall have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters relating to the function of the Committee.

(3) Representation.— Each member of the Committee shall represent 1 of the following:

(A) Commercial vessel owners or operators.

(B) Professional mariners.

(C) Recreational boaters.

(D) The recreational boating industry.

(E) State agencies responsible for vessel or port safety.

(F) The Maritime Law Association.

(4) Distribution.— The Secretary shall, based on the needs of the Coast Guard, determine the number of members of the Committee who represent each entity specified in paragraph (3). Neither this paragraph nor any other provision of law shall be construed to require an equal distribution of members representing each entity specified in paragraph (3).

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, § 601(a)](/us/pl/115/282/tVI/s601/a), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4285](/us/stat/132/4285).)*
