---
title: "§ 3921. National wetlands priority conservation plan"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3921"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3921"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–645, title III, § 301](/us/pl/99/645/tIII/s301), Nov. 10, 1986, [100 Stat. 3586](/us/stat/100/3586).)"
---
# § 3921. National wetlands priority conservation plan

##### § 3921. National wetlands priority conservation plan

(a) In general The Secretary shall establish, and periodically review and revise, a national wetlands priority conservation plan which shall specify, on a region-by-region basis or other basis considered appropriate by the Secretary, the types of wetlands and interests in wetlands which should be given priority with respect to Federal and State acquisition.

(b) Consultation The Secretary shall establish the plan required by subsection (a) after consultation with—

(1) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;

(2) the Secretary of Commerce;

(3) the Secretary of Agriculture; and

(4) (the chief executive officer of) each State.

(c) Factors to be considered The Secretary, in establishing the plan required by subsection (a), shall consider—

(1) the estimated proportion remaining of the respective types of wetlands which existed at the time of European settlement;

(2) the estimated current rate of loss and the threat of future losses of the respective types of wetlands; and

(3) the contributions of the respective types of wetlands to—

(A) wildlife, including endangered and threatened species, migratory birds, and resident species;

(B) commercial and sport fisheries;

(C) surface and ground water quality and quantity, and flood control;

(D) outdoor recreation; and

(E) other areas or concerns the Secretary considers appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 99–645, title III, § 301](/us/pl/99/645/tIII/s301), Nov. 10, 1986, [100 Stat. 3586](/us/stat/100/3586).)*
