---
title: "§ 55301. Report on administration of programs by other Federal departments and agencies"
identifier: "USC-T46-S55301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section55301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. C, title XXXV, § 3521(a)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/dC/tXXXV/s3521/a/1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 819](/us/stat/137/819).)"
---
# § 55301. Report on administration of programs by other Federal departments and agencies

##### § 55301. Report on administration of programs by other Federal departments and agencies

(a) In General.— The Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall annually submit to Congress a report on the administration by—

(1) the Department of Defense of [section 2631 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2631); and

(2) other Federal departments and agencies of programs the Administrator determines are subject to [section 55305 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s55305).

(b) Contents.— Each annual report required under subsection (a) shall include, for each Federal department or agency that administers a program covered by the report—

(1) the gross tonnage of cargo (equipment, materials, or agricultural products), expressed by type of cargo, transported on United States flag vessels as compared to on foreign vessels; and

(2) the total number of United States flag vessels and total number of foreign vessels contracted by each department or agency.

(c) Agency Reporting Requirements.— Not later than January 31 of each year, the head of each Federal department or agency that administers a program covered by a report required under subsection (a) shall submit to the Administrator of the Maritime Administration the information described in subsection (b) for that department or agency.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. C, title XXXV, § 3521(a)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/dC/tXXXV/s3521/a/1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 819](/us/stat/137/819).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 55301 was renumbered [section 55123 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s55123).
