---
title: "§ 41309. Reporting on human trafficking"
identifier: "USC-T34-S41309"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section41309"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–457, title II, § 237(a)](/us/pl/110/457/tII/s237/a), (b), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5083](/us/stat/122/5083); [Pub. L. 115–392, § 17](/us/pl/115/392/s17), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5257](/us/stat/132/5257).)"
---
# § 41309. Reporting on human trafficking

##### § 41309. Reporting on human trafficking

(a) Trafficking offense classification The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall—

(1) classify the offense of human trafficking as a Part I crime in the Uniform Crime Reports;

(2) to the extent feasible, establish subcategories for State sex crimes that involve—

(A) a person who is younger than 18 years of age;

(B) the use of force, fraud or coercion; or

(C) neither of the elements described in subparagraphs (A) and (B); and

(3) classify the offense of human trafficking as a Group A offense for purpose of the National Incident-Based Reporting System.

(b) Additional information The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall revise the Uniform Crime Reporting System 11 So in original. Probably should be “Program”. and the National Incident-Based Reporting System to distinguish between reports of—

(1) incidents of assisting or promoting prostitution, which shall include crimes committed by persons who—

(A) do not directly engage in commercial sex acts; and

(B) direct, manage, or profit from such acts, such as State pimping and pandering crimes;

(2) incidents of purchasing prostitution, which shall include crimes committed by persons who purchase or attempt to purchase or trade anything of value for commercial sex acts;

(3) incidents of prostitution, which shall include crimes committed by persons providing or attempting to provide commercial sex acts;

(4) incidents of assisting or promoting prostitution, child labor that is a violation of law, or forced labor of an individual under the age of 18 as described in paragraph (1); and

(5) incidents of purchasing or soliciting commercial sex acts, child labor that is a violation of law, or forced labor with an individual under the age of 18 as described in paragraph (2).

*([Pub. L. 110–457, title II, § 237(a)](/us/pl/110/457/tII/s237/a), (b), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5083](/us/stat/122/5083); [Pub. L. 115–392, § 17](/us/pl/115/392/s17), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5257](/us/stat/132/5257).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 534 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is comprised of subsecs. (a) and (b) of [section 237 of Pub. L. 110–457](/us/pl/110/457/s237). Subsec. (c) of section 237 is not classified to the Code.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 115–392](/us/pl/115/392) added pars. (4) and (5).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Cumulative Biennial Report on Data Collection and Statistics

[Pub. L. 117–347, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/117/347/tIV/s405), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6209](/us/stat/136/6209), provided that: “Not later than 280 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Jan. 5, 2023], and every 2 years thereafter, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall each submit to the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives the status of the required data collection and reporting requirements of the Attorney General and the Secretary, respectively, related to trafficking, which shall include the status of— “(1) the study required under section 201(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 ([34 U.S.C. 20701(a)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/usc/t34/s20701/a/1/B/ii)); “(2) the State reports required under section 237(b) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 ([34 U.S.C. 41309(b)](/us/usc/t34/s41309/b)) to be included in the Uniform Crime Reporting Program and the National Incident-Based Reporting System; “(3) the report required under section 237(c)(1)(A) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 ([Public Law 110–457](/us/pl/110/457); [122 Stat. 5084](/us/stat/122/5084) [5083]); “(4) the report required under section 237(c)(1)(B) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 ([Public Law 110–457](/us/pl/110/457); [122 Stat. 5084](/us/stat/122/5084) [5083]); “(5) the report required under section 237(c)(1)(C) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 ([Public Law 110–457](/us/pl/110/457); [122 Stat. 5084](/us/stat/122/5084) [5083]); and “(6) the comprehensive study required under section 237(c)(2) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 ([Public Law 110–457](/us/pl/110/457); [122 Stat. 5085](/us/stat/122/5085) [5084]).”
