---
title: "§ 2000ff–6. Remedies and enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000ff–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000ff–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–233, title II, § 207](/us/pl/110/233/tII/s207), May 21, 2008, [122 Stat. 914](/us/stat/122/914).)"
---
# § 2000ff–6. Remedies and enforcement

##### § 2000ff–6. Remedies and enforcement

(a) Employees covered by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

(1) In general The powers, procedures, and remedies provided in sections 705, 706, 707, 709, 710, and 711 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [[42 U.S.C. 2000e–4](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–4) to 2000e–6, 2000e–8 to 2000e–10] to the Commission, the Attorney General, or any person, alleging a violation of title VII of that Act ([42 U.S.C. 2000e](/us/usc/t42/s2000e) et seq.) shall be the powers, procedures, and remedies this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, or any person, respectively, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000ff(2)(A)(i) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000ff/2/A/i), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3).

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988),11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, or any person, alleging such a practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, or any person, alleging such a practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(b) Employees covered by Government Employee Rights Act of 1991

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in sections 302 and 304 of the Government Employee Rights Act of 1991 ([42 U.S.C. 2000e–16b](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–16b), 2000e–16c) to the Commission, or any person, alleging a violation of section 302(a)(1) of that Act ([42 U.S.C. 2000e–16b(a)(1)](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–16b/a/1)) shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, or any person, respectively, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000ff(2)(A)(ii) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000ff/2/A/ii), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3).

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988),^1 shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, or any person, alleging such a practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, or any person, alleging such a practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(c) Employees covered by Congressional Accountability Act of 1995

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 ([2 U.S.C. 1301](/us/usc/t2/s1301) et seq.) to the Board (as defined in section 101 of that Act ([2 U.S.C. 1301](/us/usc/t2/s1301))), or any person, alleging a violation of section 201(a)(1) of that Act [[2 U.S.C. 1311(a)(1)](/us/usc/t2/s1311/a/1)] shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to that Board, or any person, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000ff(2)(A)(iii) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000ff/2/A/iii), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3).

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988),^1 shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to that Board, or any person, alleging such a practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to that Board, or any person, alleging such a practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(4) Other applicable provisions With respect to a claim alleging a practice described in paragraph (1), title III of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 ([2 U.S.C. 1381](/us/usc/t2/s1381) et seq.) shall apply in the same manner as such title applies with respect to a claim alleging a violation of section 201(a)(1) of such Act ([2 U.S.C. 1311(a)(1)](/us/usc/t2/s1311/a/1)).

(d) Employees covered by chapter 5 of title 3

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in chapter 5 of title 3 to the President, the Commission, the Merit Systems Protection Board, or any person, alleging a violation of section 411(a)(1) of that title, shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the President, the Commission, such Board, or any person, respectively, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee described in [section 2000ff(2)(A)(iv) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000ff/2/A/iv), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3).

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988),^1 shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the President, the Commission, such Board, or any person, alleging such a practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the President, the Commission, such Board, or any person, alleging such a practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(e) Employees covered by section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

(1) In general The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ([42 U.S.C. 2000e–16](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–16)) to the Commission, the Attorney General, the Librarian of Congress, or any person, alleging a violation of that section shall be the powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, the Librarian of Congress, or any person, respectively, alleging an unlawful employment practice in violation of this chapter against an employee or applicant described in [section 2000ff(2)(A)(v) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000ff/2/A/v), except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3).

(2) Costs and fees The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in subsections (b) and (c) of [section 1988 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1988),^1 shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, the Librarian of Congress, or any person, alleging such a practice.

(3) Damages The powers, remedies, and procedures provided in [section 1981a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a), including the limitations contained in subsection (b)(3) of such section 1981a, shall be powers, remedies, and procedures this chapter provides to the Commission, the Attorney General, the Librarian of Congress, or any person, alleging such a practice (not an employment practice specifically excluded from coverage under [section 1981a(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1981a/a/1)).

(f) Prohibition against retaliation No person shall discriminate against any individual because such individual has opposed any act or practice made unlawful by this chapter or because such individual made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter. The remedies and procedures otherwise provided for under this section shall be available to aggrieved individuals with respect to violations of this subsection.

(g) Definition In this section, the term “Commission” means the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

*([Pub. L. 110–233, title II, § 207](/us/pl/110/233/tII/s207), May 21, 2008, [122 Stat. 914](/us/stat/122/914).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VII of the Act is classified generally to subchapter VI (§ 2000e et seq.) of chapter 21 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.

The Government Employee Rights Act of 1991, referred to in subsec. (b), is title III of [Pub. L. 102–166](/us/pl/102/166), Nov. 21, 1991, [105 Stat. 1088](/us/stat/105/1088), which is classified generally to sections 2000e–16a to 2000e–16c of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 2000e–16a(a) of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–16a/a) and Tables.

The Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), (4), is [Pub. L. 104–1](/us/pl/104/1), Jan. 23, 1995, [109 Stat. 3](/us/stat/109/3), which is classified principally to chapter 24 (§ 1301 et seq.) of Title 2, The Congress. Title III of the Act is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 1381 et seq.) of chapter 24 of Title 2. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note under [section 1301 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1301) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 18 months after May 21, 2008, see [section 213 of Pub. L. 110–233](/us/pl/110/233/s213), set out as a note under [section 2000ff of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000ff).
