---
title: "§ 456. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S456"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section456"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Nov. 4, 1939, ch. 2, § 16](/us/act/1939-11-04/ch2/s16), [54 Stat. 12](/us/stat/54/12); Proc. No. 2695, July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7517, [60 Stat. 1352](/us/stat/60/1352).)"
---
# § 456. Definitions

##### § 456. Definitions

(a) The term “United States”, when used in a geographical sense, includes the several States and Territories, the insular possessions of the United States, the Canal Zone, and the District of Columbia.

(b) The term “person” includes a partnership, company, association, or corporation, as well as a natural person.

(c) The term “vessel” means every description of watercraft and aircraft capable of being used as a means of transportation on, under, or over water.

(d) The term “American vessel” means any vessel documented, and any aircraft registered or licensed, under the laws of the United States.

(e) The term “state” shall include nation, government, and country.

(f) The term “citizen” shall include any individual owing allegiance to the United States, a partnership, company, or association composed in whole or in part of citizens of the United States, and any corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States as defined in subsection (a) of this section.

*([Nov. 4, 1939, ch. 2, § 16](/us/act/1939-11-04/ch2/s16), [54 Stat. 12](/us/stat/54/12); Proc. No. 2695, July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7517, [60 Stat. 1352](/us/stat/60/1352).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

For definition of Canal Zone, referred to in subsec. (a), see [section 3602(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3602/b).

#### Codification

Words “(including the Philippine Islands)” omitted from definition of “United States” in subsec. (a) pursuant to the authority of Proc. No. 2695, which granted independence to the Philippines under the provisions of [section 1394 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1394), and which is set out as a note under section 1394.
