---
title: "§ 1395. Prohibition against any Federal interference"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1395"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1395"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVIII, § 1801, as added [Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s102/a), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 291](/us/stat/79/291).)"
---
# § 1395. Prohibition against any Federal interference

##### § 1395. Prohibition against any Federal interference

Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize any Federal officer or employee to exercise any supervision or control over the practice of medicine or the manner in which medical services are provided, or over the selection, tenure, or compensation of any officer or employee of any institution, agency, or person providing health services; or to exercise any supervision or control over the administration or operation of any such institution, agency, or person.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XVIII, § 1801, as added [Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s102/a), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 291](/us/stat/79/291).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of title I of [Pub. L. 89–97](/us/pl/89/97), which enacted this subchapter as the “Health Insurance for the Aged Act”, see [section 100 of Pub. L. 89–97](/us/pl/89/97/s100), set out as a Short Title of 1965 Amendment note under [section 1305 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1305).

#### Protecting and Improving Guaranteed Medicare Benefits

[Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3601](/us/pl/111/148/tIII/s3601), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 538](/us/stat/124/538), provided that: “(a) Protecting Guaranteed Medicare Benefits.—Nothing in the provisions of, or amendments made by, this Act [see Short Title note set out under [section 18001 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18001)] shall result in a reduction of guaranteed benefits under title XVIII of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1395](/us/usc/t42/s1395) et seq.]. “(b) Ensuring That Medicare Savings Benefit the Medicare Program and Medicare Beneficiaries.—Savings generated for the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act under the provisions of, and amendments made by, this Act shall extend the solvency of the Medicare trust funds, reduce Medicare premiums and other cost-sharing for beneficiaries, and improve or expand guaranteed Medicare benefits and protect access to Medicare providers.”
