---
title: "§ 6762. Specific enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6762"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6762"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title V, § 502](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tV/s502), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–885](/us/stat/112/2681-885).)"
---
# § 6762. Specific enforcement

##### § 6762. Specific enforcement

(a) Jurisdiction The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction over civil actions to—

(1) restrain any violation of section 6726 or 6745 of this title; and

(2) compel the taking of any action required by or under this chapter or the Convention.

(b) Civil actions

(1) In general A civil action described in subsection (a) may be brought—

(A) in the case of a civil action described in subsection (a)(1), in the United States district court for the judicial district in which any act, omission, or transaction constituting a violation of section 6726 or 6745 of this title occurred or in which the defendant is found or transacts business; or

(B) in the case of a civil action described in subsection (a)(2), in the United States district court for the judicial district in which the defendant is found or transacts business.

(2) Service of process In any such civil action process may be served on a defendant wherever the defendant may reside or may be found, whether the defendant resides or may be found within the United States or elsewhere.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. I, title V, § 502](/us/pl/105/277/dI/tV/s502), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–885](/us/stat/112/2681-885).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this division”, meaning div. I of [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–856](/us/stat/112/2681-856), known as the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of division I to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6701 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6701) and Tables.
