---
title: "§ 8749. Civil service mariners of Military Sealift Command: release of drug and alcohol test results to Coast Guard"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8749"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8749"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title XI, § 1103(a)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tXI/s1103/a), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2141](/us/stat/112/2141), § 7479; renumbered § 8749 and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(6)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/6), title XI, § 1114(b), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 2013; [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVII, § 1731(a)(60)(A)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXVII/s1731/a/60/A), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1815](/us/stat/133/1815); [Pub. L. 116–2"
---
# § 8749. Civil service mariners of Military Sealift Command: release of drug and alcohol test results to Coast Guard

##### § 8749. Civil service mariners of Military Sealift Command: release of drug and alcohol test results to Coast Guard

(a) Release of Drug or Alcohol Test Results to Coast Guard.— The Secretary of the Navy may release to the Commandant of the Coast Guard the results of a drug or alcohol test of any employee of the Department of the Navy who is employed in any capacity on board a vessel of the Military Sealift Command. Any such release shall be in accordance with the standards and procedures applicable to the disclosure and reporting to the Coast Guard of drug or alcohol test results and drug or alcohol test records of individuals employed on vessels documented under the laws of the United States.

(b) Waiver.— The results of a drug or alcohol test of an employee may be released under subsection (a) without the prior written consent of the employee that is otherwise required under section 503(e) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1987 ([5 U.S.C. 7301](/us/usc/t5/s7301) note).

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title XI, § 1103(a)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tXI/s1103/a), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2141](/us/stat/112/2141), § 7479; renumbered § 8749 and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(6)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/6), title XI, § 1114(b), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 2013; [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVII, § 1731(a)(60)(A)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXVII/s1731/a/60/A), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1815](/us/stat/133/1815); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, § 1081(a)(46)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tX/s1081/a/46), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3873](/us/stat/134/3873).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 503(e) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1987, referred to in subsec. (b), is [section 503(e) of Pub. L. 100–71](/us/pl/100/71/s503/e) which is set out as a note under [section 7301 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s7301), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8749 was renumbered [section 9279 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9279).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “alcohol test results” for “alcohol tests results”.

2019—[Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) capitalized “Military Sealift Command” and “Coast Guard” in section catchline.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232, § 807(d)(6)](/us/pl/115/232/s807/d/6), renumbered [section 7479 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7479) as this section.

[Pub. L. 115–232, § 1114(b)](/us/pl/115/232/s1114/b), substituted “Civil service mariners of military sealift command: release of drug and alcohol test results to coast guard” for “Civil service mariners of Military Sealift Command: release of drug test results to Coast Guard” in section catchline and inserted “Or Alcohol” after “Drug” in subsec. (a) heading and “or alcohol” after “drug” wherever appearing in text. Quoted text directed to be inserted in subsec. (a) heading was conformed to the style used in this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [section 807(d)(6) of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s807/d/6) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
