---
title: "§ 1447. Place of entry and unlading"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1447"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1447"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 447, [46 Stat. 714](/us/stat/46/714); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, §§ 101–104, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7875, [60 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/60/1097); [Pub. L. 91–271, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/91/271/tIII/s301/b), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 287](/us/stat/84/287); [Pub. L. 103–182, title VI, § 649(a)](/us/pl/103/182/tVI/s649/a), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/107/2208); [Pub. L. 114–125, title VIII, § 802(d)(2)](/us/pl/114/125/tVII"
---
# § 1447. Place of entry and unlading

##### § 1447. Place of entry and unlading

It shall be unlawful to make entry of any vessel or to unlade the cargo or any part thereof of any vessel elsewhere than at a port of entry: *Provided*, That upon good cause therefor being shown, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection may permit entry of any vessel to be made at a place other than a port of entry designated by him, under such conditions as he shall prescribe: *And provided further*, That any vessel laden with merchandise in bulk may proceed after entry of such vessel to any place designated by the Secretary of the Treasury for the purpose of unlading such cargo, under the supervision of customs officers if the Customs Service considers the same necessary, and in such case the compensation and expenses of such officers shall be reimbursed to the Government by the party in interest.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 447, [46 Stat. 714](/us/stat/46/714); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, §§ 101–104, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7875, [60 Stat. 1097](/us/stat/60/1097); [Pub. L. 91–271, title III, § 301(b)](/us/pl/91/271/tIII/s301/b), June 2, 1970, [84 Stat. 287](/us/stat/84/287); [Pub. L. 103–182, title VI, § 649(a)](/us/pl/103/182/tVI/s649/a), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2208](/us/stat/107/2208); [Pub. L. 114–125, title VIII, § 802(d)(2)](/us/pl/114/125/tVIII/s802/d/2), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 210](/us/stat/130/210).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 447](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s447), [42 Stat. 953](/us/stat/42/953). That section was superseded by section 447 of act June 17, 1930, comprising this section, and repealed by section 651(a)(1) of the 1930 act.

Provisions concerning the place of entry and unlading of foreign vessels and vessels from foreign ports were contained in R.S. §§ 2770 and 2771, prior to repeal by [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 642](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s642), [42 Stat. 989](/us/stat/42/989).

Special provisions concerning the place of lading and unlading vessels laden with the products of Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island were contained in R.S. § 3129, prior to repeal by section 642 of the 1922 act.

R.S. § 2897 authorized Secretary of the Treasury, under regulations by him prescribed, to permit unloading of salt, imported from foreign places, on right bank of Mississippi River, opposite New Orleans, at any point on said bank between upper and lower corporate limits of said city, prior to repeal by [act Mar. 3, 1897, ch. 389, § 16](/us/act/1897-03-03/ch389/s16), [29 Stat. 691](/us/stat/29/691).

#### Amendments

1993—[Pub. L. 103–182](/us/pl/103/182) substituted “the Customs Service considers” for “the appropriate customs officer shall consider”.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271) substituted reference to appropriate customs officer for reference to collector.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection” substituted for “Commissioner of Customs” in text on authority of [section 802(d)(2) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/d/2), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), Domestic Security.

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

For effective date of amendment by [Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271), see [section 203 of Pub. L. 91–271](/us/pl/91/271/s203), set out as a note under [section 1500 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1500).

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers of Department of the Treasury and functions of all agencies and employees of such Department transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Treasury, with power vested in him to authorize their performance or performance of any of his functions, by any of such officers, agencies, and employees, by Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, [64 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/64/1280), 1281, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Customs personnel, referred to in text, were under Department of the Treasury.

“Commissioner of Customs” substituted in text for “Secretary of Commerce” on authority of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946, set out in the Appendix to Title 5.
