---
title: "§ 202. General provisions"
identifier: "USC-T27-S202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title27-section202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "27"
source_credit: "([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title I, § 102, formerly § 2, [49 Stat. 977](/us/stat/49/977); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. III, § 2, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2108, [54 Stat. 1232](/us/stat/54/1232); [Aug. 7, 1946, ch. 770, § 1(46)](/us/act/1946-08-07/ch770/s1/46), [60 Stat. 870](/us/stat/60/870); renumbered title I, § 102, [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/1), (2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4517](/us/stat/102/4517).)"
---
# § 202. General provisions

##### § 202. General provisions

(a) to (d) Omitted

(e) Expenditures Appropriations to carry out powers and duties of the Secretary of the Treasury under this chapter shall be available for expenditure, among other purposes, for personal services and rent in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, expenses for travel and subsistence, for law books, books of reference, magazines, peri­odicals, and newspapers, for contract stenographic reporting services, for subscriptions for library services, for purchase of samples for analysis or use as evidence, and for holding conferences of State and Federal liquor control officials.

(f) Utilization of other governmental agencies The Secretary of the Treasury may, with the consent of the department or agency affected, utilize the services of any department or other agency of the Government to the extent necessary to carry out his powers and duties under this chapter and authorize officers and employees thereof to act as his agents.

(g) Applicability of other laws The provisions including penalties, of sections 49 and 50 of title 15, shall be applicable to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary of the Treasury under this chapter, and to any person (whether or not a corporation) subject to the provisions of laws administered by the Secretary of the Treasury under this chapter.

(h) Reports to Secretary The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to require, in such manner and form as he shall prescribe, such reports as are necessary to carry out his powers and duties under this chapter.

*([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title I, § 102, formerly § 2, [49 Stat. 977](/us/stat/49/977); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. III, § 2, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2108, [54 Stat. 1232](/us/stat/54/1232); [Aug. 7, 1946, ch. 770, § 1(46)](/us/act/1946-08-07/ch770/s1/46), [60 Stat. 870](/us/stat/60/870); renumbered title I, § 102, [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/1), (2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4517](/us/stat/102/4517).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Subsections (a) to (d) provided for the creation of a Federal Alcohol Administration as a division of the Treasury Department. By [act June 26, 1936, ch. 830, title V](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch830/tV), [49 Stat. 1964](/us/stat/49/1964), however, those subsections were repealed and a new Administration created as an independent agency. The repealing act was to be effective when the new administrators authorized thereby were appointed. While the officers so authorized were never appointed and the repeal therefore never became effective, subsections (a) to (d) have been omitted in view of Reorg. Plan No. III of 1940, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, which abolished the Administration and transferred its functions to the Secretary of the Treasury to be administered through the Bureau of Internal Revenue [now Internal Revenue Service]. See, also, Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t27/s201).

#### Amendments

1946—Subsec. (i). Act Aug. 7, 1946, struck out subsec. (i) which related to reports to Congress by the Secretary of the Treasury with respect to the administration of the functions charged to the Secretary under this chapter.
