---
title: "§ 220530. Other amateur sports organizations"
identifier: "USC-T36-S220530"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section220530"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–126, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/115/126/tII/s204/a), Feb. 14, 2018, [132 Stat. 324](/us/stat/132/324); amended [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(f)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/f), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 960](/us/stat/134/960).)"
---
# § 220530. Other amateur sports organizations

##### § 220530. Other amateur sports organizations

(a) In General.— An applicable amateur sports organization shall—

(1) comply with the reporting requirements of section 226 of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 ([34 U.S.C. 20341](/us/usc/t34/s20341));

(2) establish reasonable procedures to limit one-on-one interactions, including communications, between an amateur athlete who is a minor and an adult (who is not the minor’s legal guardian) at a facility under the jurisdiction of the applicable amateur sports organization without being in an observable and interruptible distance from another adult, except under emergency circumstances;

(3) offer and provide consistent training to all adult members who are in regular contact with amateur athletes who are minors, and subject to parental consent, to members who are minors, regarding prevention and reporting of child abuse to allow a complainant to report easily an incident of child abuse to appropriate persons; and

(4) prohibit retaliation, by the applicable amateur sports organization, against any individual who makes—

(A) a report under paragraph (1); or

(B) any other report relating to abuse of any amateur athlete, including emotional, physical, and sexual abuse.

(b) Definition of Applicable Amateur Sports Organization.— In this section, the term “applicable amateur sports organization” means an amateur sports organization—

(1) that is not otherwise subject to the requirements under subchapter III;

(2) that participates in an interstate or international amateur athletic competition; and

(3) whose membership includes any adult who is in regular contact with an amateur athlete who is a minor.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–126, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/115/126/tII/s204/a), Feb. 14, 2018, [132 Stat. 324](/us/stat/132/324); amended [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(f)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/f), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 960](/us/stat/134/960).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(f)(1)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/f/1), inserted “, including communications,” after “interactions”.

Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(f)(2)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/f/2), substituted “makes—” and subpars. (A) and (B) for “makes a report under paragraph (1).”
