---
title: "§ 40706. Privacy protection standards"
identifier: "USC-T34-S40706"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section40706"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–546, § 10](/us/pl/106/546/s10), Dec. 19, 2000, [114 Stat. 2735](/us/stat/114/2735); [Pub. L. 108–405, title II, § 203(e)(2)](/us/pl/108/405/tII/s203/e/2), title III, § 309, Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2271](/us/stat/118/2271), 2275.)"
---
# § 40706. Privacy protection standards

##### § 40706. Privacy protection standards

(a) In general Except as provided in subsection (b), any sample collected under, or any result of any analysis carried out under, section 40701, 40702, or 40703 of this title may be used only for a purpose specified in such section.

(b) Permissive uses A sample or result described in subsection (a) may be disclosed under the circumstances under which disclosure of information included in the Combined DNA Index System is allowed, as specified in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of [section 12592(b)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12592/b/3).

(c) Criminal penalty A person who knowingly discloses a sample or result described in subsection (a) in any manner to any person not authorized to receive it, or obtains or uses, without authorization, such sample or result, shall be fined not more than $250,000, or imprisoned for a period of not more than one year. Each instance of disclosure, obtaining, or use shall constitute a separate offense under this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 106–546, § 10](/us/pl/106/546/s10), Dec. 19, 2000, [114 Stat. 2735](/us/stat/114/2735); [Pub. L. 108–405, title II, § 203(e)(2)](/us/pl/108/405/tII/s203/e/2), title III, § 309, Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2271](/us/stat/118/2271), 2275.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14135e of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14135e), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–405, § 309](/us/pl/108/405/s309), reenacted heading without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “A person who knowingly—

“(1) discloses a sample or result described in subsection (a) of this section in any manner to any person not authorized to receive it; or

“(2) obtains, without authorization, a sample or result described in subsection (a) of this section,

shall be fined not more than $250,000, or imprisoned for a period of not more than one year, or both.”

[Pub. L. 108–405, § 203(e)(2)](/us/pl/108/405/s203/e/2), substituted “$250,000, or imprisoned for a period of not more than one year, or both” for “$100,000” in concluding provisions.
