---
title: "§ 2071. Injunctive enforcement and seizure"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2071"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2071"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–573, § 22](/us/pl/92/573/s22), Oct. 27, 1972, [86 Stat. 1225](/us/stat/86/1225); [Pub. L. 94–284](/us/pl/94/284), §§ 11(b), 12(c), May 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 507](/us/stat/90/507), 508.)"
---
# § 2071. Injunctive enforcement and seizure

##### § 2071. Injunctive enforcement and seizure

(a) Jurisdiction The United States district courts shall have jurisdiction to take the following action:

Such actions may be brought by the Commission (without regard to [section 2076(b)(7)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2076/b/7/A)) or by the Attorney General in any United States district court for a district wherein any act, omission, or transaction constituting the violation occurred, or in such court for the district wherein the defendant is found or transacts business. In any action under this section process may be served on a defendant in any other district in which the defendant resides or may be found.

(1) Restrain any violation of [section 2068 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2068).

(2) Restrain any person from manufacturing for sale, offering for sale, distributing in commerce, or importing into the United States a product in violation of an order in effect under [section 2064(d) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2064/d).

(3) Restrain any person from distributing in commerce a product which does not comply with a consumer product safety rule.

(b) Products liable to proceeding Any consumer product—

when introduced into or while in commerce or while held for sale after shipment in commerce shall be liable to be proceeded against on libel of information and condemned in any district court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which such consumer product is found. Proceedings in cases instituted under the authority of this subsection shall conform as nearly as possible to proceedings in rem in admiralty. Whenever such proceedings involving substantially similar consumer products are pending in courts of two or more judicial districts they shall be consolidated for trial by order of any such court upon application reasonably made by any party in interest upon notice to all other parties in interest.

(1) which fails to conform with an applicable consumer product safety rule, or

(2) the manufacture for sale, offering for sale, distribution in commerce, or the importation into the United States of which has been prohibited by an order in effect under [section 2064(d) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2064/d),

*([Pub. L. 92–573, § 22](/us/pl/92/573/s22), Oct. 27, 1972, [86 Stat. 1225](/us/stat/86/1225); [Pub. L. 94–284](/us/pl/94/284), §§ 11(b), 12(c), May 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 507](/us/stat/90/507), 508.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–284](/us/pl/94/284), §§ 11(b), 12(c)(1), designated existing provision as par. (1) and (3), added par. (2), and in provision following par. (3) substituted “(without regard to [section 2076(b)(7)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2076/b/7/A))” for “(with the concurrence of the Attorney General)”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–284, § 12(c)(2)](/us/pl/94/284/s12/c/2), amended subsec. (b) generally, inserting provision designated as par. (2) which included within consumer products liable to proceedings, a product of which the manufacture for sale, offering for sale, distribution in commerce, or importation into the United States has been prohibited.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the sixtieth day following Oct. 27, 1972, see [section 34 of Pub. L. 92–573](/us/pl/92/573/s34), set out as a note under [section 2051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2051).
