---
title: "§ 12392. Enforcement of statutory rape laws"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12392"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12392"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–193, title IX, § 906](/us/pl/104/193/tIX/s906), Aug. 22, 1996, [110 Stat. 2349](/us/stat/110/2349).)"
---
# § 12392. Enforcement of statutory rape laws

##### § 12392. Enforcement of statutory rape laws

(a) Sense of Senate It is the sense of the Senate that States and local jurisdictions should aggressively enforce statutory rape laws.

(b) Justice Department program on statutory rape Not later than January 1, 1997, the Attorney General shall establish and implement a program that—

(1) studies the linkage between statutory rape and teenage pregnancy, particularly by predatory older men committing repeat offenses; and

(2) educates State and local criminal law enforcement officials on the prevention and prosecution of statutory rape, focusing in particular on the commission of statutory rape by predatory older men committing repeat offenses, and any links to teenage pregnancy.

(c) Violence against women initiative The Attorney General shall ensure that the Department of Justice’s Violence Against Women initiative addresses the issue of statutory rape, particularly the commission of statutory rape by predatory older men committing repeat offenses.

*([Pub. L. 104–193, title IX, § 906](/us/pl/104/193/tIX/s906), Aug. 22, 1996, [110 Stat. 2349](/us/stat/110/2349).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14016 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14016), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was enacted as part of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, and not as part of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 which enacted this chapter.
