---
title: "§ 41507. National Gang Intelligence Center"
identifier: "USC-T34-S41507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section41507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1107](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1107), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/119/3093); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 251(a)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s251/a), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2297](/us/stat/124/2297).)"
---
# § 41507. National Gang Intelligence Center

##### § 41507. National Gang Intelligence Center

(a) Establishment The Attorney General shall establish a National Gang Intelligence Center and gang information database to be housed at and administered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation to collect, analyze, and disseminate gang activity information from—

(1) the Federal Bureau of Investigation;

(2) the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives;

(3) the Drug Enforcement Administration;

(4) the Bureau of Prisons;

(5) the United States Marshals Service;

(6) the Directorate of Border and Transportation Security of the Department of Homeland Security;

(7) the Department of Housing and Urban Development;

(8) the Office of Justice Services of the Bureau of Indian Affairs;

(9) tribal, State, and local law enforcement;

(10) Federal, tribal, State, and local prosecutors;

(11) Federal, tribal, State, and local probation and parole offices;

(12) Federal, tribal, State, and local prisons and jails; and

(13) any other entity as appropriate.

(b) Information The Center established under subsection (a) shall make available the information referred to in subsection (a) to—

(1) Federal, tribal, State, and local law enforcement agencies;

(2) Federal, tribal, State, and local corrections agencies and penal institutions;

(3) Federal, tribal, State, and local prosecutorial agencies; and

(4) any other entity as appropriate.

(c) Annual report The Center established under subsection (a) shall annually submit to Congress a report on gang activity.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2006 and for each fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1107](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1107), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3093](/us/stat/119/3093); [Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 251(a)](/us/pl/111/211/tII/s251/a), July 29, 2010, [124 Stat. 2297](/us/stat/124/2297).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 534 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (a)(8). [Pub. L. 111–211, § 251(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/111/211/s251/a/1/A), (B), added par. (8) and redesignated former par. (8) as (9).

Subsec. (a)(9). [Pub. L. 111–211, § 251(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/111/211/s251/a/1/A), (C), redesignated par. (8) as (9) and substituted “tribal, State,” for “State”. Former par. (9) redesignated (10).

Subsec. (a)(10) to (12). [Pub. L. 111–211, § 251(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/111/211/s251/a/1/A), (D), redesignated pars. (9) to (11) as (10) to (12), respectively, and inserted “tribal,” before “State,” wherever appearing. Former par. (12) redesignated (13).

Subsec. (a)(13). [Pub. L. 111–211, § 251(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/111/211/s251/a/1/A), redesignated par. (12) as (13).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–211, § 251(a)(2)](/us/pl/111/211/s251/a/2), inserted “tribal,” before “State,” wherever appearing.
