---
title: "§ 459a–2. Preservation of natural features; acquisition of additional property; reversion of property on failure of conditions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S459a–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section459a–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Aug. 17, 1937, ch. 687, § 4](/us/act/1937-08-17/ch687/s4), [50 Stat. 670](/us/stat/50/670); [June 29, 1940, ch. 459, § 1](/us/act/1940-06-29/ch459/s1), [54 Stat. 702](/us/stat/54/702); [Mar. 6, 1946, ch. 50](/us/act/1946-03-06/ch50), [60 Stat. 32](/us/stat/60/32).)"
---
# § 459a–2. Preservation of natural features; acquisition of additional property; reversion of property on failure of conditions

##### § 459a–2. Preservation of natural features; acquisition of additional property; reversion of property on failure of conditions

Except for certain portions of the area, deemed to be especially adaptable for recreational uses, particularly swimming, boating, sailing, fishing, and other recreational activities of similar nature, which shall be developed for such uses as needed, the said area shall be permanently reserved as a primitive wilderness and no development of the project or plan for the convenience of visitors shall be undertaken which would be incompatible with the preservation of the unique flora and fauna or the physiographic conditions now prevailing in this area: *Provided*, That the Secretary of the Interior may, in his discretion, accept for administration, protection, and development by the National Park Service a minimum of ten thousand acres within the area described in [section 459 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s459), including the existing Cape Hatteras State Park, and, in addition, any other portions of the area described in [section 459 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s459) if the State of North Carolina shall agree that if all the lands described in [section 459 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s459) shall not have been conveyed to the United States within fifteen years from August 17, 1937, the establishment of the aforesaid national seashore recreational area may, in the discretion of the said Secretary, be abandoned, and that, in the event of such abandonment, the said State will accept a reconveyance of title to all lands conveyed by it to the United States for said national seashore recreational area. The lands donated to the United States for the purposes of sections 459 to 459a–3 of this title by parties other than said State shall revert in the event of the aforesaid abandonment to the donors, or their heirs, or other persons entitled thereto by law.

In the event of said abandonment, the Secretary of the Interior shall execute any suitable quitclaim deeds, or other writings entitled to record in the proper counties of North Carolina stating the fact of abandonment, whereupon title shall revert to those entitled thereto by law and no further conveyance or proof of reversion of title shall be required.

*([Aug. 17, 1937, ch. 687, § 4](/us/act/1937-08-17/ch687/s4), [50 Stat. 670](/us/stat/50/670); [June 29, 1940, ch. 459, § 1](/us/act/1940-06-29/ch459/s1), [54 Stat. 702](/us/stat/54/702); [Mar. 6, 1946, ch. 50](/us/act/1946-03-06/ch50), [60 Stat. 32](/us/stat/60/32).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1946—Act Mar. 6, 1946, substituted “fifteen years” for “ten years” before “from August 17, 1937”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Words “national seashore recreational area” substituted in text for “national seashore” pursuant to act June 29, 1940.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
