---
title: "§ 6502. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XI, § 1103, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–766](/us/stat/112/2681-766).)"
---
# § 6502. Definitions

##### § 6502. Definitions

(1) ACDA The term “ACDA” means the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.

(2) AID The term “AID” means the United States Agency for International Development.

(3) Agency; Federal agency The term “agency” or “Federal agency” means an Executive agency as defined in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105).

(4) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

(5) Covered agency The term “covered agency” means any of the following agencies: ACDA, USIA, IDCA, and AID.

(6) Department The term “Department” means the Department of State.

(7) Function The term “function” means any duty, obligation, power, authority, responsibility, right, privilege, activity, or program.

(8) IDCA The term “IDCA” means the United States International Development Cooperation Agency.

(9) Office The term “office” includes any office, administration, agency, institute, unit, organizational entity, or component thereof.

(10) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of State.

(11) USIA The term “USIA” means the United States Information Agency.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XI, § 1103, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–766](/us/stat/112/2681-766).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subdivision”, meaning subdiv. A of div. G of [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–765](/us/stat/112/2681-765), known as the Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act of 1998. For complete classification of this subdivision to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6501 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6501) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.
