---
title: "§ 262p–12. Cancellation of Haiti’s debts to international financial institutions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S262p–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section262p–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–118, title XVI, § 1628](/us/pl/95/118/tXVI/s1628), as added [Pub. L. 111–158, § 2](/us/pl/111/158/s2), Apr. 26, 2010, [124 Stat. 1121](/us/stat/124/1121).)"
---
# § 262p–12. Cancellation of Haiti’s debts to international financial institutions

##### § 262p–12. Cancellation of Haiti’s debts to international financial institutions

(a) In general The Secretary of the Treasury should direct the United States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund, the International Development Association, the Inter-American Development Bank, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, and other multilateral development institutions (as defined in [section 262r(c)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262r/c/3)) to use the voice, vote and influence of the United States at each such institution to seek to achieve—

(1) the immediate and complete cancellation of any and all remaining debts owed by Haiti to such institutions;

(2) the suspension of Haiti’s debt service payments to such institutions until such time as the debts are canceled completely; and

(3) the provision, before February 1, 2015, of emergency, humanitarian and reconstruction assistance from such institutions to Haiti in the form of grants or other assistance such that Haiti does not accumulate debt.

(b) Use of certain funds for assistance to Haiti The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct the United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund to advocate the use of some of the realized windfall profits that exceed the required contribution to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust (as referenced in the IMF Reforms Financial Facilities for Low-Income Countries Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 09/94) from the ongoing sale of 12,965,649 ounces of gold acquired since the second Amendment of the Fund’s Article of Agreement, to provide debt stock relief and debt service relief for Haiti and, before February 1, 2015, to provide grants for Haiti.

(c) Securing other relief for Haiti The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State should use all appropriate diplomatic influence to secure cancellation of any and all remaining bilateral, multilateral and private creditor debt owed by Haiti.

*([Pub. L. 95–118, title XVI, § 1628](/us/pl/95/118/tXVI/s1628), as added [Pub. L. 111–158, § 2](/us/pl/111/158/s2), Apr. 26, 2010, [124 Stat. 1121](/us/stat/124/1121).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

The definitions in [section 262p–5 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262p–5) apply to this section.
