---
title: "§ 300mm–32. Followup monitoring and treatment of certified-eligible WTC survivors for WTC-related health conditions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300mm–32"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300mm–32"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3322, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3652](/us/stat/124/3652).)"
---
# § 300mm–32. Followup monitoring and treatment of certified-eligible WTC survivors for WTC-related health conditions

##### § 300mm–32. Followup monitoring and treatment of certified-eligible WTC survivors for WTC-related health conditions

(a) In general Subject to subsection (b), the provisions of sections 300mm–21 and 300mm–22 of this title shall apply to followup monitoring and treatment of WTC-related health conditions for certified-eligible WTC survivors in the same manner as such provisions apply to the monitoring and treatment of WTC-related health conditions for enrolled WTC responders.

(b) List of WTC-related health conditions for survivors The list of health conditions for screening-eligible WTC survivors and certified-eligible WTC survivors consists of the following:

(1) Aerodigestive disorders

(A) Interstitial lung diseases.

(B) Chronic respiratory disorder—fumes/vapors.

(C) Asthma.

(D) Reactive airways dysfunction syndrome (RADS).

(E) WTC-exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

(F) Chronic cough syndrome.

(G) Upper airway hyperreactivity.

(H) Chronic rhinosinusitis.

(I) Chronic nasopharyngitis.

(J) Chronic laryngitis.

(K) Gastroesophageal reflux disorder (GERD).

(L) Sleep apnea exacerbated by or related to a condition described in a previous clause.

(2) Mental health conditions

(A) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

(B) Major depressive disorder.

(C) Panic disorder.

(D) Generalized anxiety disorder.

(E) Anxiety disorder (not otherwise specified).

(F) Depression (not otherwise specified).

(G) Acute stress disorder.

(H) Dysthymic disorder.

(I) Adjustment disorder.

(J) Substance abuse.

(3) Additional conditions Any cancer (or type of cancer) or other condition added to the list in [section 300mm–22(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–22/a/3) pursuant to paragraph (5) or (6) of [section 300mm–22(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300mm–22/a), as such provisions are applied under subsection (a) with respect to certified-eligible WTC survivors.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXXIII, § 3322, as added [Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101](/us/pl/111/347/tI/s101), Jan. 2, 2011, [124 Stat. 3652](/us/stat/124/3652).)*
