---
title: "§ 4011. Responsibility of Secretary to account for daily and annual balances of Indian trust funds"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4011"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4011"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–412, title I, § 102](/us/pl/103/412/tI/s102), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4240](/us/stat/108/4240).)"
---
# § 4011. Responsibility of Secretary to account for daily and annual balances of Indian trust funds

##### § 4011. Responsibility of Secretary to account for daily and annual balances of Indian trust funds

(a) Requirement to account The Secretary shall account for the daily and annual balance of all funds held in trust by the United States for the benefit of an Indian tribe or an individual Indian which are deposited or invested pursuant to [section 162a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s162a).

(b) Periodic statement of performance Not later than 20 business days after the close of a calendar quarter, the Secretary shall provide a statement of performance to each Indian tribe and individual with respect to whom funds are deposited or invested pursuant to [section 162a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s162a). The statement, for the period concerned, shall identify—

(1) the source, type, and status of the funds;

(2) the beginning balance;

(3) the gains and losses;

(4) receipts and disbursements; and

(5) the ending balance.

(c) Annual audit The Secretary shall cause to be conducted an annual audit on a fiscal year basis of all funds held in trust by the United States for the benefit of an Indian tribe or an individual Indian which are deposited or invested pursuant to [section 162a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s162a), and shall include a letter relating to the audit in the first statement of performance provided under subsection (b) after the completion of the audit.

*([Pub. L. 103–412, title I, § 102](/us/pl/103/412/tI/s102), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4240](/us/stat/108/4240).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Performance and Account Statements for Inactive Accounts

Provisions stating that the Secretary was not required to provide a quarterly statement of performance for any Indian trust account that had not had activity for at least 18 months and had a balance of $1.00 or less but was required to issue an annual account statement and maintain a record of any such accounts and to permit the balance in each such account to be withdrawn upon the express written request of the account holder, were contained in Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006, [Pub. L. 109–54, title I](/us/pl/109/54/tI), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 519](/us/stat/119/519), and were repeated in provisions of subsequent appropriations acts which are not set out in the Code. Similar provisions were also contained in the following prior appropriations acts:

[Pub. L. 108–447, div. E, title I](/us/pl/108/447/dE/tI), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3061](/us/stat/118/3061).

[Pub. L. 108–108, title I](/us/pl/108/108/tI), Nov. 10, 2003, [117 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/117/1263).

[Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title I](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tI), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 236](/us/stat/117/236).

[Pub. L. 107–63, title I](/us/pl/107/63/tI), Nov. 5, 2001, [115 Stat. 435](/us/stat/115/435).

[Pub. L. 106–291, title I](/us/pl/106/291/tI), Oct. 11, 2000, [114 Stat. 939](/us/stat/114/939).

[Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(3) [title I]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/3/tI), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–153.

[Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(e) [title I]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/e/tI), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–231](/us/stat/112/2681-231), 2681–251.
