---
title: "§ 2174. Confirmation"
identifier: "USC-T48-S2174"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section2174"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–187, title III, § 314](/us/pl/114/187/tIII/s314), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 583](/us/stat/130/583).)"
---
# § 2174. Confirmation

##### § 2174. Confirmation

(a) Objection A special tax payer may object to confirmation of a plan.

(b) Confirmation The court shall confirm the plan if—

(1) the plan complies with the provisions of title 11, made applicable to a case under this subchapter by [section 2161 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s2161);

(2) the plan complies with the provisions of this subchapter;

(3) the debtor is not prohibited by law from taking any action necessary to carry out the plan;

(4) except to the extent that the holder of a particular claim has agreed to a different treatment of such claim, the plan provides that on the effective date of the plan each holder of a claim of a kind specified in 507(a)(2) 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “section”. of title 11 will receive on account of such claim cash equal to the allowed amount of such claim;

(5) any legislative, regulatory, or electoral approval necessary under applicable law in order to carry out any provision of the plan has been obtained, or such provision is expressly conditioned on such approval;

(6) the plan is feasible and in the best interests of creditors, which shall require the court to consider whether available remedies under the non-bankruptcy laws and constitution of the territory would result in a greater recovery for the creditors than is provided by such plan; and

(7) the plan is consistent with the applicable Fiscal Plan certified by the Oversight Board under subchapter II.

(c) Confirmation for debtors with a single class of claims If all of the requirements of [section 2174(b) of this title](/us/usc/t48/s2174/b) and [section 1129(a) of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s1129/a), incorporated into this subchapter by [section 2161 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s2161) other than sections 1129(a)(8) and 1129(a)(10) are met with respect to a plan—

the court shall confirm the plan notwithstanding the requirements of such sections 1129(a)(8) and 1129(a)(10) of title 11 if the plan is fair and equitable and does not discriminate unfairly with respect to such impaired class.

(1) with respect to which all claims are substantially similar under [section 2161(e) of this title](/us/usc/t48/s2161/e);

(2) that includes only one class of claims, which claims are impaired claims; and

(3) that was not accepted by such impaired class,

*([Pub. L. 114–187, title III, § 314](/us/pl/114/187/tIII/s314), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 583](/us/stat/130/583).)*
