---
title: "§ 311. United States Coast Guard Band; composition; director"
identifier: "USC-T14-S311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 89–189, § 1(1)](/us/pl/89/189/s1/1), Sept. 17, 1965, [79 Stat. 820](/us/stat/79/820), § 336; amended [Pub. L. 102–587, title V, § 5201](/us/pl/102/587/tV/s5201), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5071](/us/stat/106/5071); [Pub. L. 107–295, title III, § 311](/us/pl/107/295/tIII/s311), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2102](/us/stat/116/2102); [Pub. L. 109–241, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/109/241/tII/s204/a), July 11, 2006, [120 Stat. 520](/us/stat/120/520); renumbered § 317 and amended [Pub. L. 11"
---
# § 311. United States Coast Guard Band; composition; director

##### § 311. United States Coast Guard Band; composition; director

(a) The United States Coast Guard Band shall be composed of a director and other personnel in such numbers and grades as the Secretary determines to be necessary.

(b) The Secretary may designate as the director any individual determined by the Secretary to possess the necessary qualifications. Upon the recommendation of the Secretary, an individual so designated may be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to a commissioned grade in the Regular Coast Guard.

(c) The initial appointment to a commissioned grade of an individual designated as director of the Coast Guard Band shall be in the grade determined by the Secretary to be most appropriate to the qualifications and experience of the appointed individual.

(d) An individual who is designated and commissioned under this section shall not be included on the active duty promotion list. He shall be promoted under [section 2126 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2126). However, the grade of the director may not be higher than captain.

(e) The Secretary may revoke any designation as director of the Coast Guard Band. When an individual’s designation is revoked, his appointment to commissioned grade under this section terminates and he is entitled, at his option—

(1) to be discharged from the Coast Guard; or

(2) to revert to the grade and status he held at the time of his designation as director.

*(Added [Pub. L. 89–189, § 1(1)](/us/pl/89/189/s1/1), Sept. 17, 1965, [79 Stat. 820](/us/stat/79/820), § 336; amended [Pub. L. 102–587, title V, § 5201](/us/pl/102/587/tV/s5201), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5071](/us/stat/106/5071); [Pub. L. 107–295, title III, § 311](/us/pl/107/295/tIII/s311), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2102](/us/stat/116/2102); [Pub. L. 109–241, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/109/241/tII/s204/a), July 11, 2006, [120 Stat. 520](/us/stat/120/520); renumbered § 317 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 104(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4196](/us/stat/132/4196), 4240; renumbered § 311, [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7201(b)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7201/b), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1675](/us/stat/139/1675).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 311 was renumbered [section 314 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s314).

Another prior section 311, acts [Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393](/us/act/1949-08-04/ch393), [63 Stat. 519](/us/stat/63/519); [Aug. 3, 1950, ch. 536, § 13](/us/act/1950-08-03/ch536/s13), [64 Stat. 407](/us/stat/64/407), related to recall of warrant officers to active duty with consent of the officer, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 88–130, § 1(10)(A)](/us/pl/88/130/s1/10/A), Sept. 24, 1963, [77 Stat. 177](/us/stat/77/177).

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60) renumbered [section 317 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s317) as this section.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 104(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s104/b), renumbered [section 336 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s336) as this section.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 2126” for “section 276”.

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–241, § 204(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/241/s204/a/1), in first sentence, substituted “The Secretary may designate as the director any individual determined by the Secretary to possess the necessary qualifications.” for “The Secretary shall designate the director from among qualified members of the Coast Guard.”, and, in second sentence, substituted “an individual so designated” for “a member so designated”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 109–241, § 204(a)(2)](/us/pl/109/241/s204/a/2), substituted “of an individual” for “of a member” and “determined by the Secretary to be most appropriate to the qualifications and experience of the appointed individual” for “of lieutenant (junior grade) or lieutenant”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–241, § 204(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/241/s204/a/3), substituted “An individual” for “A member”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 109–241, § 204(a)(4)](/us/pl/109/241/s204/a/4), substituted “When an individual’s designation is revoked,” for “When a member’s designation is revoked,” and “option—” for “option:”.

2002—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 107–295](/us/pl/107/295) substituted “captain” for “commander”.

1992—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 102–587](/us/pl/102/587) substituted “commander” for “lieutenant commander”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Current Director

[Pub. L. 109–241, title II, § 204(b)](/us/pl/109/241/tII/s204/b), July 11, 2006, [120 Stat. 520](/us/stat/120/520), provided that: “The individual serving as Coast Guard band director on the date of enactment of this Act [July 11, 2006] may be immediately promoted to a commissioned grade, not to exceed captain, determined by the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating to be most appropriate to the qualifications and experience of that individual.”
