---
title: "§ 290bb–34. Suicide prevention technical assistance center"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290bb–34"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290bb–34"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 520C, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXI, § 3104(b)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXI/s3104/b), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1173](/us/stat/114/1173); amended [Pub. L. 108–355, § 3(a)](/us/pl/108/355/s3/a), Oct. 21, 2004, [118 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/118/1405); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VI, § 6001(c)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVI/s6001/c/1), title IX, § 9008(a), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1203](/us/stat/130/1203), 1241; [Pub. L. 117–328"
---
# § 290bb–34. Suicide prevention technical assistance center

##### § 290bb–34. Suicide prevention technical assistance center

(a) Program authorized

(1) In general The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary, shall establish a research, training, and technical assistance resource center to provide appropriate information, training, and technical assistance to States, political subdivisions of States, federally recognized Indian Tribes, Tribal organizations, institutions of higher education, public organizations, or private nonprofit organizations regarding the prevention of suicide among all ages, particularly among groups that are at a high risk for suicide.

(2) Collaboration In carrying out this subsection, as applicable with respect to assistance to entities serving members of the Armed Forces and veterans, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, collaborate with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

(b) Responsibilities of the Center The center established under subsection (a) shall conduct activities for the purpose of—

(1) developing and continuing statewide or Tribal suicide early intervention and prevention strategies for all ages, particularly among groups that are at a high risk for suicide;

(2) ensuring the surveillance of suicide early intervention and prevention strategies for all ages, particularly among groups that are at a high risk for suicide;

(3) studying the costs and effectiveness of statewide and Tribal suicide early intervention and prevention strategies in order to provide information concerning relevant issues of importance to State, Tribal, and national policymakers;

(4) further identifying and understanding causes and associated risk factors for suicide;

(5) analyzing the efficacy of new and existing suicide early intervention and prevention techniques and technology;

(6) ensuring the surveillance of suicidal behaviors and nonfatal suicidal attempts;

(7) studying the effectiveness of State-sponsored statewide and Tribal suicide early intervention and prevention strategies on the overall wellness and health promotion strategies related to suicide attempts;

(8) promoting the sharing of data regarding suicide with Federal agencies involved with suicide early intervention and prevention, and State-sponsored statewide or Tribal suicide early intervention and prevention strategies for the purpose of identifying previously unknown mental health causes and associated risk factors for suicide;

(9) evaluating and disseminating outcomes and best practices of mental health and substance use disorder services at institutions of higher education; and

(10) conducting other activities determined appropriate by the Secretary.

(c) Authorization of appropriations For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $9,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

(d) Annual report Not later than 2 years after December 29, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on the activities carried out by the center established under subsection (a) during the year involved, including the potential effects of such activities, and the States, organizations, and institutions that have worked with the center.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 520C, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXI, § 3104(b)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXI/s3104/b), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1173](/us/stat/114/1173); amended [Pub. L. 108–355, § 3(a)](/us/pl/108/355/s3/a), Oct. 21, 2004, [118 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/118/1405); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VI, § 6001(c)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVI/s6001/c/1), title IX, § 9008(a), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1203](/us/stat/130/1203), 1241; [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1421](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1421), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5702](/us/stat/136/5702).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–328, § 1421(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/328/s1421/a/2), substituted “Tribal” for “tribal” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1421(b)](/us/pl/117/328/s1421/b), designated existing provisions as par. (1), inserted par. heading, and added par. (2).

[Pub. L. 117–328, § 1421(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/328/s1421/a/1), substituted “Tribes” for “tribes”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1421(c)](/us/pl/117/328/s1421/c), substituted “$9,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027” for “$5,988,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1421(d)](/us/pl/117/328/s1421/d), substituted “Not later than 2 years after December 29, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives” for “Not later than 2 years after December 13, 2016, the Secretary shall submit to Congress”.

2016—[Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/1), substituted “Suicide prevention technical assistance center” for “Youth interagency research, training, and technical assistance centers” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(2)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/2), substituted “acting through the Assistant Secretary, shall establish a research, training, and technical assistance resource center to provide appropriate information, training, and technical assistance to States, political subdivisions of States, federally recognized Indian tribes, tribal organizations, institutions of higher education, public organizations, or private nonprofit organizations regarding the prevention of suicide among all ages, particularly among groups that are at a high risk for suicide.” for “acting through the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, and in consultation with the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance and the Director of the National Institutes of Health—

“(1) shall award grants or contracts to public or nonprofit private entities to establish not more than four research, training, and technical assistance centers to carry out the activities described in subsection (c); and

“(2) shall award a competitive grant to 1 additional research, training, and technical assistance center to carry out the activities described in subsection (d).”

[Pub. L. 114–255, § 6001(c)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/s6001/c/1), substituted “Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use” for “Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(C)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/C), substituted “suicide” for “youth suicide” wherever appearing.

[Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/B), in introductory provisions, substituted “The center established under subsection (a) shall conduct activities for the purpose of” for “The additional research, training, and technical assistance center established under subsection (a)(2) shall provide appropriate information, training, and technical assistance to States, political subdivisions of a State, Federally recognized Indian tribes, tribal organizations, institutions of higher education, public organizations, or private nonprofit organizations for”.

[Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(A)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/A), substituted “Responsibilities of the Center” for “Additional center” in heading.

[Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(3)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/3), (4), redesignated subsec. (d) as (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Text of subsec. (b) read as follows: “A public or private nonprofit entity desiring a grant or contract under subsection (a) shall prepare and submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.”

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(D)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/D), substituted “developing and continuing” for “the development or continuation of” and inserted “for all ages, particularly among groups that are at a high risk for suicide” before semicolon at end.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(E)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/E), inserted “for all ages, particularly among groups that are at a high risk for suicide” before semicolon at end.

Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(F)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/F), inserted “and tribal” after “statewide”.

Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(G)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/G), inserted “and prevention” after “intervention”.

Subsec. (b)(8). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(H)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/H), struck out “in youth” before semicolon at end.

Subsec. (b)(9). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(I)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/I), substituted “health and substance use disorder” for “and behavioral health”.

Subsec. (b)(10). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(5)(J)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/5/J), inserted “conducting” before “other”.

Subsecs. (c) to (e). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 9008(a)(6)](/us/pl/114/255/s9008/a/6), added subsecs. (c) and (d) and struck out subsec. (e) which authorized appropriations for prior fiscal years.

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–355, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/355/s3/a/1), substituted dash for comma after “National Institutes of Health”, designated remainder of existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “; and” for period, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–355, § 3(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/355/s3/a/2), substituted “(a)(1)” for “(a)” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 108–355, § 3(a)(5)](/us/pl/108/355/s3/a/5), added subsec. (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).

[Pub. L. 108–355, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/108/355/s3/a/3), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “awarding grants or contracts under subsection (a)(1)” for “carrying out this section”, and added par. (2).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 108–355, § 3(a)(4)](/us/pl/108/355/s3/a/4), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e).
