---
title: "§ 5134. Sale of land by individual Indian owners"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5134"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5134"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([May 14, 1948, ch. 293](/us/act/1948-05-14/ch293), [62 Stat. 236](/us/stat/62/236).)"
---
# § 5134. Sale of land by individual Indian owners

##### § 5134. Sale of land by individual Indian owners

The Secretary of the Interior, or his duly authorized representative, is authorized in his discretion, and upon application of the Indian owners, to issue patents in fee, to remove restrictions against alienation, and to approve conveyances, with respect to lands or interests in lands held by individual Indians under the provisions of the Act of June 18, 1934 ([48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984)) [[25 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t25/s5101) et seq.], or the Act of June 26, 1936 ([49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967)).

*([May 14, 1948, ch. 293](/us/act/1948-05-14/ch293), [62 Stat. 236](/us/stat/62/236).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, is [act June 18, 1934, ch. 576](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576), [48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

Act of June 26, 1936, referred to in text, is [act June 26, 1936, ch. 831](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967), popularly known as the Oklahoma Welfare Act, which was classified generally to subchapter VIII (§ 501 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 45A (§ 5201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5201) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 483 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s483) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
