---
title: "§ 410ww–24. Staff of Commission"
identifier: "USC-T16-S410ww–24"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section410ww–24"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–419, title II, § 204](/us/pl/102/419/tII/s204), Oct. 16, 1992, [106 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/106/2147).)"
---
# § 410ww–24. Staff of Commission

##### § 410ww–24. Staff of Commission

(a) Director The Commission shall have a Director who shall be appointed by the Commission.

(b) Additional personnel The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of such additional personnel as the Commission deems necessary. Such staff may include specialists in areas such as interpretation, historic preservation, black history and literature, aviation history and technology, and urban revitalization.

(c) Temporary services Subject to such rules as may be adopted by the Commission, the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by [section 3109(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109/b), but at rates determined by the Commission to be reasonable.

(d) Detail Upon request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency represented by a member on the Commission may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this subchapter.

(e) Administrative support The Administrator of the General Services Administration shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis such administrative support services as the Commission may request.

(f) State and local services The Commission may accept the services of personnel detailed from the State or any political subdivision of the State and may reimburse the State or such political subdivision for such services.

(g) Inapplicability of certain provisions of title 5 The director and staff of the Commission may be appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that no individual so appointed may receive pay in excess of the annual rate of basic pay payable for grade GS–15 of the General Schedule.

*([Pub. L. 102–419, title II, § 204](/us/pl/102/419/tII/s204), Oct. 16, 1992, [106 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/106/2147).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Grade GS–15 of the General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (g), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.
