---
title: "§ 5161a. Audit of contracts"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5161a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5161a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. D, § 1225](/us/pl/115/254/dD/s1225), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3458](/us/stat/132/3458).)"
---
# § 5161a. Audit of contracts

##### § 5161a. Audit of contracts

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall not reimburse a State or local government, an Indian tribal government (as defined in [section 5122 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5122)), or the owner or operator of a private nonprofit facility (as defined in [section 5122 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5122)) for any activities made pursuant to a contract entered into after August 1, 2017, that prohibits the Administrator or the Comptroller General of the United States from auditing or otherwise reviewing all aspects relating to the contract.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. D, § 1225](/us/pl/115/254/dD/s1225), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3458](/us/stat/132/3458).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 and as part of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, and not as part of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Authorities provided under div. D of [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254), which enacted this section, applicable to each major disaster and emergency declared by the President under [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288) on or after Jan. 1, 2016, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1202(b) of Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254/s1202/b), set out in an Effective Date of 2018 Amendment note under [section 5121 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5121).

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Administrator” and “State” as used in this section, see [section 1203 of Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254/s1203), set out as a note under [section 5122 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5122).
