---
title: "§ 4002. Federal prisoners in State institutions; employment"
identifier: "USC-T18-S4002"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section4002"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 847](/us/stat/62/847); [Pub. L. 95–624, § 8](/us/pl/95/624/s8), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3463](/us/stat/92/3463).)"
---
# § 4002. Federal prisoners in State institutions; employment

##### § 4002. Federal prisoners in State institutions; employment

For the purpose of providing suitable quarters for the safekeeping, care, and subsistence of all persons held under authority of any enactment of Congress, the Attorney General may contract, for a period not exceeding three years, with the proper authorities of any State, Territory, or political subdivision thereof, for the imprisonment, subsistence, care, and proper employment of such persons.

Such Federal prisoners shall be employed only in the manufacture of articles for, the production of supplies for, the construction of public works for, and the maintenance and care of the institutions of, the State or political subdivision in which they are imprisoned.

The rates to be paid for the care and custody of said persons shall take into consideration the character of the quarters furnished, sanitary conditions, and quality of subsistence and may be such as will permit and encourage the proper authorities to provide reasonably decent, sanitary, and healthful quarters and subsistence for such persons.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 847](/us/stat/62/847); [Pub. L. 95–624, § 8](/us/pl/95/624/s8), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3463](/us/stat/92/3463).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 753b, ([May 14, 1930, ch. 274, § 3](/us/act/1930-05-14/ch274/s3), [46 Stat. 325](/us/stat/46/325)).

Changes were made in phraseology. The first sentence was incorporated in [section 4042 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s4042).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–624](/us/pl/95/624) substituted “Attorney General” for “Director of the Bureau of Prisons”.
