---
title: "§ 45107. Transportation Security Administration"
identifier: "USC-T49-S45107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section45107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 139(4)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s139/4), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 640](/us/stat/115/640); amended [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(e)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/e), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3642](/us/stat/132/3642).)"
---
# § 45107. Transportation Security Administration

##### § 45107. Transportation Security Administration

(a) Transfer of Functions Relating to Testing Programs With Respect to Airport Security Screening Personnel.— The authority of the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration under this chapter with respect to programs relating to testing of airport security screening personnel are transferred to the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration. Notwithstanding section 45102(a), the regulations prescribed under section 45102(a) shall require testing of such personnel by their employers instead of by air carriers and foreign air carriers.

(b) Applicability of Chapter With Respect to Employees of Administration.— The provisions of this chapter that apply with respect to employees of the Federal Aviation Administration whose duties include responsibility for safety-sensitive functions shall apply with respect to employees of the Transportation Security Administration whose duties include responsibility for security-sensitive functions.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 139(4)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s139/4), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 640](/us/stat/115/640); amended [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(e)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/e), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3642](/us/stat/132/3642).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(e)(1)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/e/1), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(e)(2)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/e/2), struck out at end “The Under Secretary of Transportation for Security, the Transportation Security Administration, and employees of the Transportation Security Administration whose duties include responsibility for security-sensitive functions shall be subject to and comply with such provisions in the same manner and to the same extent as the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, and employees of the Federal Aviation Administration whose duties include responsibility for safety-sensitive functions, respectively.”
