---
title: "§ 9592. Federal assistance"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9592"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9592"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title VII, § 100702](/us/pl/117/58/dK/tVII/s100702), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/135/1465).)"
---
# § 9592. Federal assistance

##### § 9592. Federal assistance

(a) In general

(1) Provision of Federal assistance To carry out sections ___101, ___102, and ___103(a),11 So in original. See References in Text note below. the Under Secretary may provide Federal assistance to public sector entities and private sector entities in the form of grants or cooperative agreements.

(2) Notice Not later than 120 days after the date on which amounts are appropriated to carry out this section, the Under Secretary shall, in accordance with subsection (b), broadly publish a statement regarding Federal assistance that will, or may, be provided under paragraph (1) during the fiscal year for which those amounts are appropriated, including—

(A) the actual, or anticipated, amount of Federal assistance that will, or may, be made available;

(B) the types of Federal assistance that will, or may, be made available;

(C) the manner in which Federal assistance will be allocated among public sector entities and private sector entities, as applicable; and

(D) the methodology used by the Under Secretary to make allocations under subparagraph (C).

(3) Consultation The Under Secretary shall consult with public sector entities and private sector entities, as applicable, in deciding the amounts and types of Federal assistance to make available under paragraph (1).

(b) Publicity In carrying out this section, the Under Secretary shall broadly publicize all opportunities for Federal assistance available under this section, including through the means required under section ___116. ^1

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title VII, § 100702](/us/pl/117/58/dK/tVII/s100702), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/135/1465).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections ___101, ___102, and ___103(a), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), probably mean sections 100101, 100102, and 100103(a) of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), which are classified to sections 9511, 9512, and 9513(a) of this title.

Section ___116, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means [section 100116 of Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58/s100116), which is classified to [section 9526 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s9526).
