---
title: "§ 3206. Global tsunami warning and mitigation network"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–424, § 7](/us/pl/109/424/s7), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 2907](/us/stat/120/2907); [Pub. L. 109–479, title VIII, § 807](/us/pl/109/479/tVIII/s807), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3659](/us/stat/120/3659); [Pub. L. 115–25, title V](/us/pl/115/25/tV), §§ 507, 512(a), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 124](/us/stat/131/124), 128.)"
---
# § 3206. Global tsunami warning and mitigation network

##### § 3206. Global tsunami warning and mitigation network

(a) Support for development of an international tsunami warning system The Administrator shall, in coordination with the Secretary of State and in consultation with such other agencies as the Administrator considers relevant, provide technical assistance, operational support, and training to the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization, the World Meteorological Organization of the United Nations, and such other international entities as the Administrator considers appropriate, as part of the international efforts to develop a fully functional global tsunami forecast and warning system comprised of regional tsunami warning networks.

(b) International Tsunami Information Center The Administrator, through the National Weather Service and in consultation with other relevant Administration offices, in cooperation with the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, may operate an International Tsunami Information Center to improve tsunami preparedness for all Pacific Ocean nations participating in the International Tsunami Warning System of the Pacific, and may also provide such assistance to other nations participating in a global tsunami warning system established through the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission. As part of its responsibilities around the world, the Center may—

(1) monitor international tsunami warning activities around the world;

(2) assist member states in establishing national warning systems, and make information available on current technologies for tsunami warning systems;

(3) maintain a library of materials to promulgate knowledge about tsunami in general and for use by the scientific community; and

(4) disseminate information, including educational materials and research reports.

(c) Detection equipment; technical advice and training In carrying out this section, the National Weather Service—

(1) shall give priority to assisting nations in identifying vulnerable coastal areas, creating inundation maps, obtaining or designing real-time detection and reporting equipment, and supporting communication and warning networks and contact points in each vulnerable nation;

(2) may support a process for transfer of detection and communication technology to affected nations for the purposes of supporting the international tsunami warning system; and

(3) shall provide technical and other assistance to support international tsunami programs.

(d) Data-sharing requirement The National Weather Service, when deciding to provide assistance under this section, may take into consideration the data sharing policies and practices of nations proposed to receive such assistance, with a goal to encourage all nations to support full and open exchange of data.

*([Pub. L. 109–424, § 7](/us/pl/109/424/s7), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 2907](/us/stat/120/2907); [Pub. L. 109–479, title VIII, § 807](/us/pl/109/479/tVIII/s807), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3659](/us/stat/120/3659); [Pub. L. 115–25, title V](/us/pl/115/25/tV), §§ 507, 512(a), Apr. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 124](/us/stat/131/124), 128.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 109–424](/us/pl/109/424) and title VIII of [Pub. L. 109–479](/us/pl/109/479) enacted substantially identical sections. [Pub. L. 109–424](/us/pl/109/424) was repealed by [section 512(a) of Pub. L. 115–25](/us/pl/115/25/s512/a).

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 507(1)](/us/pl/115/25/s507/1), amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Administrator, through the National Weather Service and in consultation with other relevant Administration offices, in coordination with other members of the United States Interagency Committee of the National Tsunami Hazard Mitigation Program, shall provide technical assistance and training to the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, the World Meteorological Organization, and other international entities, as part of international efforts to develop a fully functional global tsunami forecast and warning system comprising regional tsunami warning networks, modeled on the International Tsunami Warning System of the Pacific.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 507(2)](/us/pl/115/25/s507/2), in introductory provisions, substituted “may operate” for “shall operate” and “the Center may” for “the Center shall”.

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 507(3)(A)](/us/pl/115/25/s507/3/A), substituted “supporting” for “establishing”.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 115–25, § 507(3)(B)](/us/pl/115/25/s507/3/B), substituted “support” for “establish” and “supporting” for “establishing”.
