---
title: "§ 12002. Authorized strengths: Army and Air Force reserve components, exclusive of members on active duty"
identifier: "USC-T10-S12002"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section12002"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1662(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1662/a/1), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2983](/us/stat/108/2983).)"
---
# § 12002. Authorized strengths: Army and Air Force reserve components, exclusive of members on active duty

##### § 12002. Authorized strengths: Army and Air Force reserve components, exclusive of members on active duty

(a) The authorized strengths of the National Guard and the reserve components of the Army and the Air Force, exclusive of members who are included in the strengths authorized for members of the Army and Air Force, respectively, on active duty, are as follows: Army National Guard and the Army National Guard of the United States600,000 Army Reserve980,000 Air National Guard and the Air National Guard of the United States150,000 Air Force Reserve500,000.

(b) The strength authorized by this section for the Army National Guard and the Army National Guard of the United States, and the strength authorized by this section for the Air National Guard and the Air National Guard of the United States, shall be allocated among the States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1662(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1662/a/1), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2983](/us/stat/108/2983).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in sections 3222, 3225, 8222, and 8225 of this title, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–337, § 1662(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/337/s1662/a/3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 1, 1994, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1691 of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691), set out as a note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).
