---
title: "§ 8462. Parking and restroom opportunities for Federal recreational lands and waters"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8462"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8462"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 154](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s154), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2870](/us/stat/138/2870).)"
---
# § 8462. Parking and restroom opportunities for Federal recreational lands and waters

##### § 8462. Parking and restroom opportunities for Federal recreational lands and waters

(a) Parking opportunities

(1) In general The Secretaries shall seek to increase and improve parking opportunities for persons recreating on Federal recreational lands and waters—

(A) in accordance with existing laws and applicable land use plans;

(B) in a manner that minimizes any increase in maintenance obligations on Federal recreational lands and waters; and

(C) in a manner that does not impact wildlife habitat that is critical to the mission of a Federal agency responsible for managing Federal recreational lands and waters.

(2) Authority To supplement the quantity of parking spaces available at units of Federal recreational lands and waters on January 4, 2025, the Secretaries may—

(A) enter into a public-private partnership for parking opportunities on non-Federal land;

(B) enter into contracts or agreements with State, Tribal, or local governments for parking opportunities using non-Federal lands and resources; or

(C) provide alternative transportation systems for a unit of Federal recreational lands and waters.

(b) Restroom opportunities

(1) In general The Secretaries shall seek to increase and improve the function, cleanliness, and availability of restroom facilities for persons recreating on Federal recreational lands and waters, including by entering into partnerships with non-Federal partners, including State, Tribal, and local governments and volunteer organizations.

(2) Report Not later than 2 years after January 4, 2025, the Secretaries shall submit a report to Congress that identifies—

(A) challenges to maintaining or improving the function, cleanliness, and availability of restroom facilities on Federal recreational lands and waters;

(B) the current state of restroom facilities on Federal recreational lands and waters and the effect restroom facilities have on visitor experiences; and

(C) policy recommendations that suggest innovative new models or partnerships to increase or improve the function, cleanliness, and availability of restroom facilities for persons recreating on Federal recreational lands and waters.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 154](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s154), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2870](/us/stat/138/2870).)*
