---
title: "§ 274. International Council of Scientific Unions and Associated Unions; authorization of annual appropriations for membership"
identifier: "USC-T22-S274"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section274"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Aug. 7, 1935, ch. 454](/us/act/1935-08-07/ch454), [49 Stat. 540](/us/stat/49/540); [Pub. L. 85–627](/us/pl/85/627), Aug. 14, 1958, [72 Stat. 574](/us/stat/72/574); [Pub. L. 89–104](/us/pl/89/104), Aug. 3, 1965, [79 Stat. 427](/us/stat/79/427).)"
---
# § 274. International Council of Scientific Unions and Associated Unions; authorization of annual appropriations for membership

##### § 274. International Council of Scientific Unions and Associated Unions; authorization of annual appropriations for membership

There is hereby authorized to be appropriated, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of State, in paying the annual share of the United States as an adhering member of the International Council of Scientific Unions and Associated Unions, including the International Astronomical Union, International Union of Chemistry, International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics, International Union of Mathematics, International Scientific Radio Union, International Union of Physics, and International Geographical Union, and such other international scientific unions as the Secretary of State may designate, such sum as may be necessary for the payment of such annual share, not to exceed $100,000 in any one year.

*([Aug. 7, 1935, ch. 454](/us/act/1935-08-07/ch454), [49 Stat. 540](/us/stat/49/540); [Pub. L. 85–627](/us/pl/85/627), Aug. 14, 1958, [72 Stat. 574](/us/stat/72/574); [Pub. L. 89–104](/us/pl/89/104), Aug. 3, 1965, [79 Stat. 427](/us/stat/79/427).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1965—[Pub. L. 89–104](/us/pl/89/104) substituted “$100,000” for “$65,000”.

1958—[Pub. L. 85–627](/us/pl/85/627) substituted “$65,000” for “$9,000”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Annual Appropriations

Annual appropriations to meet the obligations of membership in various international organizations were contained in acts listed in a note set out under [section 269a of this title](/us/usc/t22/s269a).

#### Annual Appropriations Between 1948 and 1970

[Act June 3, 1948, ch. 400, title I, § 101](/us/act/1948-06-03/ch400/tI/s101), [62 Stat. 305](/us/stat/62/305), and subsequent Department of State Appropriation Acts through act Dec. 24, 1969, [Pub. L. 91–153, title I, § 101](/us/pl/91/153/tI/s101), [83 Stat. 404](/us/stat/83/404), failed to authorize appropriations for this section. See Annual Appropriations note set out above.
