---
title: "§ 2802. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2802"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2802"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–532, title V, § 502](/us/pl/92/532/tV/s502), as added [Pub. L. 102–567, title V, § 501](/us/pl/102/567/tV/s501), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4294](/us/stat/106/4294).)"
---
# § 2802. Definitions

##### § 2802. Definitions

(1) “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;

(2) “coastal ecosystem” means a system of interacting biological, chemical, and physical components throughout the water column, water surface, and benthic environment of coastal waters;

(3) “coastal water quality” means the physical, chemical and biological parameters that relate to the health and integrity of coastal ecosystems;

(4) “coastal water quality monitoring” means a continuing program of measurement, analysis, and synthesis to identify and quantify coastal water quality conditions and trends to provide a technical basis for decisionmaking;

(5) “coastal waters” means waters of the Great Lakes, including their connecting waters and those portions of rivers, streams, and other bodies of water having unimpaired connection with the open sea up to the head of tidal influence, including wetlands, intertidal areas, bays, harbors, and lagoons, including waters of the territorial sea of the United States and the contiguous zone”; 11 So in original. The closing quotation marks preceding the semicolon probably should not appear. and

(6) “Under Secretary” means Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.

*([Pub. L. 92–532, title V, § 502](/us/pl/92/532/tV/s502), as added [Pub. L. 102–567, title V, § 501](/us/pl/102/567/tV/s501), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4294](/us/stat/106/4294).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone of United States

For extension of territorial sea and contiguous zone of United States, see Proc. No. 5928 and Proc. No. 7219, respectively, set out as notes under [section 1331 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1331), Public Lands.
