---
title: "§ 15925. Fair market value determinations for linear rights-of-way across public lands and national forests"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15925"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15925"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 367](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s367), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 726](/us/stat/119/726).)"
---
# § 15925. Fair market value determinations for linear rights-of-way across public lands and national forests

##### § 15925. Fair market value determinations for linear rights-of-way across public lands and national forests

(a) Update of fee schedule Not later than 1 year after August 8, 2005—

(1) the Secretary of the Interior shall update section 2806.20 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on August 8, 2005, to revise the per acre rental fee zone value schedule by State, county, and type of linear right-of-way use to reflect current values of land in each zone; and

(2) the Secretary of Agriculture shall make the same revision for linear rights-of-way granted, issued, or renewed under title V of the Federal Lands Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C. 1761](/us/usc/t43/s1761) et seq.) on National Forest System land.

(b) Fair market value rental determination for linear rights-of-way The fair market value rent of a linear right-of-way across public lands or National Forest System lands issued under section 504 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C. 1764](/us/usc/t43/s1764)) or [section 185 of title 30](/us/usc/t30/s185) shall be determined in accordance with subpart 2806 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on August 8, 2005 (including the annual or periodic updates specified in the regulations), and as updated in accordance with subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 367](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s367), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 726](/us/stat/119/726).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2743](/us/stat/90/2743). Title V of the Act is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 1761 et seq.) of chapter 35 of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1701) and Tables.
