---
title: "§ 404. Overpayments and underpayments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S404"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section404"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title II, § 204, [49 Stat. 624](/us/stat/49/624); [Aug. 10, 1939, ch. 666](/us/act/1939-08-10/ch666), title II, § 201, [53 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/53/1362), 1368; [Aug. 28, 1950, ch. 809](/us/act/1950-08-28/ch809), title I, § 109(b)(1), [64 Stat. 523](/us/stat/64/523); [Sept. 1, 1954, ch. 1206](/us/act/1954-09-01/ch1206), title I, § 111(a), [68 Stat. 1085](/us/stat/68/1085); [Pub. L. 89–97, title III, § 329](/us/pl/89/97/tIII/s329), July 30, 1965"
---
# § 404. Overpayments and underpayments

##### § 404. Overpayments and underpayments

(a) Procedure for adjustment or recovery

(1) Whenever the Commissioner of Social Security finds that more or less than the correct amount of payment has been made to any person under this subchapter, proper adjustment or recovery shall be made, under regulations prescribed by the Commissioner of Social Security, as follows:

(A) With respect to payment to a person of more than the correct amount, the Commissioner of Social Security shall decrease any payment under this subchapter to which such overpaid person is entitled, or shall require such overpaid person or his estate to refund the amount in excess of the correct amount, or shall decrease any payment under this subchapter payable to his estate or to any other person on the basis of the wages and self-employment income which were the basis of the payments to such overpaid person, or shall obtain recovery by means of reduction in tax refunds based on notice to the Secretary of the Treasury as permitted under [section 3720A of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3720A), or shall apply any combination of the foregoing. A payment made under this subchapter on the basis of an erroneous report of death by the Department of Defense of an individual in the line of duty while he is a member of the uniformed services (as defined in [section 410(m) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s410/m)) on active duty (as defined in section 410(*l*) of this title) shall not be considered an incorrect payment for any month prior to the month such Department notifies the Commissioner of Social Security that such individual is alive.

(B)

(i) Subject to clause (ii), with respect to payment to a person of less than the correct amount, the Commissioner of Social Security shall make payment of the balance of the amount due such underpaid person, or, if such person dies before payments are completed or before negotiating one or more checks representing correct payments, disposition of the amount due shall be made in accordance with subsection (d).

(ii) No payment shall be made under this subparagraph to any person during any period for which monthly insurance benefits of such person—

until [section 402(x)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s402/x/1) no longer applies, or would no longer apply in the case of benefits that have terminated.

(I) are subject to nonpayment by reason of [section 402(x)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s402/x/1), or

(II) in the case of a person whose monthly insurance benefits have terminated for a reason other than death, would be subject to nonpayment by reason of [section 402(x)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s402/x/1) but for the termination of such benefits,

(iii) Nothing in clause (ii) shall be construed to limit the Commissioner’s authority to withhold amounts, make adjustments, or recover amounts due under this subchapter, subchapter VIII or subchapter XVI that would be deducted from a payment that would otherwise be payable to such person but for such clause.

(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, when any payment of more than the correct amount is made to or on behalf of an individual who has died, and such payment—

the amount of such payment in excess of the correct amount shall be treated as a payment of more than the correct amount to such other person. If any payment of more than the correct amount is made to a representative payee on behalf of an individual after the individual’s death, the representative payee shall be liable for the repayment of the overpayment, and the Commissioner of Social Security shall establish an overpayment control record under the social security account number of the representative payee.

(A) is made by direct deposit to a financial institution;

(B) is credited by the financial institution to a joint account of the deceased individual and another person; and

(C) such other person was entitled to a monthly benefit on the basis of the same wages and self-employment income as the deceased individual for the month preceding the month in which the deceased individual died,

(3)

(A) When any payment of more than the correct amount is made on behalf of an individual who is a represented minor beneficiary for a month in which such individual is in foster care under the responsibility of a State and the State is the representative payee of such individual, the State shall be liable for the repayment of the overpayment, and there shall be no adjustment of payments to, or recovery by the United States from, such individual.

(B) For purposes of this paragraph, the term “represented minor beneficiary” has the meaning given such term in subsection (j)(11)(B)(iii).11 See References in Text note below.

(b) Access to financial information for old-age, survivors, and disability insurance waivers

(1) In any case in which more than the correct amount of payment has been made, there shall be no adjustment of payments to, or recovery by the United States from, any person who is without fault if such adjustment or recovery would defeat the purpose of this subchapter or would be against equity and good conscience.

(2) In making for purposes of this subsection any determination of whether any individual is without fault, the Commissioner of Social Security shall specifically take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitation such individual may have (including any lack of facility with the English language).

(3)

(A) In making for purposes of this subsection any determination of whether such adjustment or recovery would defeat the purpose of this subchapter, the Commissioner of Social Security shall require an individual to provide authorization for the Commissioner to obtain (subject to the cost reimbursement requirements of section 1115(a) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act [[12 U.S.C. 3415](/us/usc/t12/s3415)]) from any financial institution (within the meaning of section 1101(1) of such Act [[12 U.S.C. 3401(1)](/us/usc/t12/s3401/1)]) any financial record (within the meaning of section 1101(2) of such Act [[12 U.S.C. 3401(2)](/us/usc/t12/s3401/2)]) held by the institution with respect to such individual whenever the Commissioner determines the record is needed in connection with a determination with respect to such adjustment or recovery.

(B) Notwithstanding section 1104(a)(1) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act [[12 U.S.C. 3404(a)(1)](/us/usc/t12/s3404/a/1)], an authorization provided by an individual pursuant this paragraph shall remain effective until the earlier of—

(i) the rendering of a final decision on whether adjustment or recovery would defeat the purpose of this subchapter; or

(ii) the express revocation by the individual of the authorization, in a written notification to the Commissioner.

(C)

(i) An authorization obtained by the Commissioner of Social Security pursuant 22 So in original. Probably should be followed by “to”. this paragraph shall be considered to meet the requirements of the Right to Financial Privacy Act [[12 U.S.C. 3401](/us/usc/t12/s3401) et seq.] for purposes of section 1103(a) of such Act [[12 U.S.C. 3403(a)](/us/usc/t12/s3403/a)], and need not be furnished to the financial institution, notwithstanding section 1104(a) of such Act [[12 U.S.C. 3404(a)](/us/usc/t12/s3404/a)].

(ii) The certification requirements of section 1103(b) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act [[12 U.S.C. 3403(b)](/us/usc/t12/s3403/b)] shall not apply to requests by the Commissioner of Social Security pursuant to an authorization provided under this paragraph.

(iii) A request by the Commissioner pursuant to an authorization provided under this paragraph is deemed to meet the requirements of section 1104(a)(3) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act [[12 U.S.C. 3404(a)(3)](/us/usc/t12/s3404/a/3)] and the flush language of section 1102 of such Act [[12 U.S.C. 3402](/us/usc/t12/s3402)].

(D) The Commissioner shall inform any person who provides authorization pursuant to this paragraph of the duration and scope of the authorization.

(E) If an individual refuses to provide, or revokes, any authorization for the Commissioner of Social Security to obtain from any financial institution any financial record, the Commissioner may, on that basis, determine that adjustment or recovery would not defeat the purpose of this subchapter.

(c) Nonliability of certifying and disbursing officers No certifying or disbursing officer shall be held liable for any amount certified or paid by him to any person where the adjustment or recovery of such amount is waived under subsection (b), or where adjustment under subsection (a) is not completed prior to the death of all persons against whose benefits deductions are authorized.

(d) Payment to survivors or heirs when eligible person is deceased If an individual dies before any payment due him under this subchapter is completed, payment of the amount due (including the amount of any unnegotiated checks) shall be made—

(1) to the person, if any, who is determined by the Commissioner of Social Security to be the surviving spouse of the deceased individual and who either (i) was living in the same household with the deceased at the time of his death or (ii) was, for the month in which the deceased individual died, entitled to a monthly benefit on the basis of the same wages and self-employment income as was the deceased individual;

(2) if there is no person who meets the requirements of paragraph (1), or if the person who meets such requirements dies before the payment due him under this subchapter is completed, to the child or children, if any, of the deceased individual who were, for the month in which the deceased individual died, entitled to monthly benefits on the basis of the same wages and self-employment income as was the deceased individual (and, in case there is more than one such child, in equal parts to each such child);

(3) if there is no person who meets the requirements of paragraph (1) or (2), or if each person who meets such requirements dies before the payment due him under this subchapter is completed, to the parent or parents, if any, of the deceased individual who were, for the month in which the deceased individual died, entitled to monthly benefits on the basis of the same wages and self-employment income as was the deceased individual (and, in case there is more than one such parent, in equal parts to each such parent);

(4) if there is no person who meets the requirements of paragraph (1), (2), or (3), or if each person who meets such requirements dies before the payment due him under this subchapter is completed, to the person, if any, determined by the Commissioner of Social Security to be the surviving spouse of the deceased individual;

(5) if there is no person who meets the requirements of paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4), or if each person who meets such requirements dies before the payment due him under this subchapter is completed, to the person or persons, if any, determined by the Commissioner of Social Security to be the child or children of the deceased individual (and, in case there is more than one such child, in equal parts to each such child);

(6) if there is no person who meets the requirements of paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5), or if each person who meets such requirements dies before the payment due him under this subchapter is completed, to the parent or parents, if any, of the deceased individual (and, in case there is more than one such parent, in equal parts to each such parent); or

(7) if there is no person who meets the requirements of paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6), or if each person who meets such requirements dies before the payment due him under this subchapter is completed, to the legal representative of the estate of the deceased individual, if any.

(e) Adjustments due to supplemental security income payments For payments which are adjusted by reason of payment of benefits under the supplemental security income program established by subchapter XVI, see [section 1320a–6 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–6).

(f) Collection of delinquent amounts

(1) With respect to any deliquent 33 So in original. Probably should be “delinquent”. amount, the Commissioner of Social Security may use the collection practices described in sections 3711(f), 3716, 3717, and 3718 of title 31 and in [section 5514 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5514), all as in effect immediately after April 26, 1996.

(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the term “delinquent amount” means an amount—

(A) in excess of the correct amount of payment under this subchapter;

(B) paid to a person after such person has attained 18 years of age; and

(C) determined by the Commissioner of Social Security, under regulations, to be otherwise unrecoverable under this section after such person ceases to be a beneficiary under this subchapter.

(g) Cross-program recovery of overpayments For provisions relating to the cross-program recovery of overpayments made under programs administered by the Commissioner of Social Security, see [section 1320b–17 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–17).

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title II, § 204, [49 Stat. 624](/us/stat/49/624); [Aug. 10, 1939, ch. 666](/us/act/1939-08-10/ch666), title II, § 201, [53 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/53/1362), 1368; [Aug. 28, 1950, ch. 809](/us/act/1950-08-28/ch809), title I, § 109(b)(1), [64 Stat. 523](/us/stat/64/523); [Sept. 1, 1954, ch. 1206](/us/act/1954-09-01/ch1206), title I, § 111(a), [68 Stat. 1085](/us/stat/68/1085); [Pub. L. 89–97, title III, § 329](/us/pl/89/97/tIII/s329), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 401](/us/stat/79/401); [Pub. L. 90–248, title I](/us/pl/90/248/tI), §§ 152, 153(a), 154(a), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 860](/us/stat/81/860), 861; [Pub. L. 96–265, title V, § 501(b)](/us/pl/96/265/tV/s501/b), June 9, 1980, [94 Stat. 470](/us/stat/94/470); [Pub. L. 99–272, title XII, § 12113(a)](/us/pl/99/272/tXII/s12113/a), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 288](/us/stat/100/288); [Pub. L. 101–239, title X, § 10305(b)](/us/pl/101/239/tX/s10305/b), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2483](/us/stat/103/2483); [Pub. L. 101–508, title V, § 5129(a)](/us/pl/101/508/tV/s5129/a), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1388–287](/us/stat/104/1388-287); [Pub. L. 103–296, title I, § 107(a)(4)](/us/pl/103/296/tI/s107/a/4), Aug. 15, 1994, [108 Stat. 1478](/us/stat/108/1478); [Pub. L. 103–387, § 5(a)](/us/pl/103/387/s5/a), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4077](/us/stat/108/4077); [Pub. L. 104–134, title III, § 31001(z)(2)(A)](/us/pl/104/134/tIII/s31001/z/2/A), Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321–379](/us/stat/110/1321-379); [Pub. L. 104–316, title I, § 115(g)(2)(E)](/us/pl/104/316/tI/s115/g/2/E), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3835](/us/stat/110/3835); [Pub. L. 105–306, § 8(b)(1)](/us/pl/105/306/s8/b/1), Oct. 28, 1998, [112 Stat. 2929](/us/stat/112/2929); [Pub. L. 106–169, title II](/us/pl/106/169/tII), §§ 201(a), 203(c), Dec. 14, 1999, [113 Stat. 1831](/us/stat/113/1831), 1832; [Pub. L. 108–203, title II, § 210(b)(1)](/us/pl/108/203/tII/s210/b/1), Mar. 2, 2004, [118 Stat. 517](/us/stat/118/517); [Pub. L. 111–115, § 2(a)](/us/pl/111/115/s2/a), Dec. 15, 2009, [123 Stat. 3029](/us/stat/123/3029); [Pub. L. 114–74, title VIII, § 834(a)](/us/pl/114/74/tVIII/s834/a), Nov. 2, 2015, [129 Stat. 614](/us/stat/129/614); [Pub. L. 115–165, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/115/165/tI/s104/a), Apr. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1263](/us/stat/132/1263).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subsection (j)(11)(B)(iii), referred to in subsec. (a)(3)(B), probably means subsection (j)(11)(B)(iii) of section 205 of the Social Security Act, which is classified to [section 405(j)(11)(B)(iii) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s405/j/11/B/iii).

The Right to Financial Privacy Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(C)(i), probably means the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, title XI of [Pub. L. 95–630](/us/pl/95/630), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3697](/us/stat/92/3697), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 3401 et seq.) of Title 12, Banks and Banking. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3401 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s3401) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 115–165](/us/pl/115/165) added par. (3).

2015—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–74](/us/pl/114/74) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “In any case in which more than the correct amount of payment has been made, there shall be no adjustment of payments to, or recovery by the United States from, any person who is without fault if such adjustment or recovery would defeat the purpose of this subchapter or would be against equity and good conscience. In making for purposes of this subsection any determination of whether any individual is without fault, the Commissioner of Social Security shall specifically take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitation such individual may have (including any lack of facility with the English language).”

2009—Subsec. (a)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 111–115](/us/pl/111/115) designated existing provisions as cl. (i), substituted “Subject to clause (ii), with” for “With”, and added cls. (ii) and (iii).

2004—Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 108–203](/us/pl/108/203) amended subsec. (g) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (g) read as follows: “For payments which are adjusted or withheld to recover an overpayment of supplemental security income benefits paid under subchapter XVI of this chapter (including State supplementary payments paid under an agreement pursuant to [section 1382e(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1382e/a) or [section 212(b) of Public Law 93–66](/us/pl/93/66/s212/b)), see [section 1320b–17 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–17).”

1999—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 106–169, § 201(a)](/us/pl/106/169/s201/a), inserted at end “If any payment of more than the correct amount is made to a representative payee on behalf of an individual after the individual’s death, the representative payee shall be liable for the repayment of the overpayment, and the Commissioner of Social Security shall establish an overpayment control record under the social security account number of the representative payee.”

Subsec. (f)(1). [Pub. L. 106–169, § 203(c)](/us/pl/106/169/s203/c), substituted “3711(f)” for “3711(e)” and inserted “all” before “as in effect”.

1998—Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 105–306](/us/pl/105/306) added subsec. (g).

1996—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 104–134](/us/pl/104/134), which directed that subsec. (f) be amended to read as follows: “(f)(1) With respect to any deliquent amount, the Commissioner of Social Security may use the collection practices described in sections 3711(f), 3716, 3717, and 3718 of title 31 and in [section 5514 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5514), as in effect immediately after April 26, 1996.”, was executed by substituting the new language for par. (1) only to reflect the probable intent of Congress. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “With respect to any delinquent amount, the Commissioner of Social Security may use the collection practices described in sections 3711(f), 3716, and 3718 of title 31 as in effect on October 1, 1994.”

Subsec. (f)(1). [Pub. L. 104–316](/us/pl/104/316) substituted “sections 3711(e)” for “sections 3711(f)”.

1994—Subsecs. (a)(1), (b), (d)(1), (4), (5). [Pub. L. 103–296, § 107(a)(4)](/us/pl/103/296/s107/a/4), substituted “Commissioner of Social Security” for “Secretary” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 103–387](/us/pl/103/387) added subsec. (f).

1990—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 101–508](/us/pl/101/508) inserted “or shall obtain recovery by means of reduction in tax refunds based on notice to the Secretary of the Treasury as permitted under [section 3720A of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3720A),” after “payments to such overpaid person,”.

1989—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 101–239](/us/pl/101/239) inserted at end “In making for purposes of this subsection any determination of whether any individual is without fault, the Secretary shall specifically take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitation such individual may have (including any lack of facility with the English language).”

1986—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–272](/us/pl/99/272) redesignated existing subsec. (a) as (a)(1) and pars. (1) and (2) thereof as subpars. (A) and (B), respectively, and added par. (2).

1980—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 96–265](/us/pl/96/265) added subsec. (e).

1968—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 90–248, § 152(a)](/us/pl/90/248/s152/a), incorporated in text preceding par. (1) part of existing provisions and broadened the Secretary’s authority to include recovery of overpayments.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 90–248, § 153(a)](/us/pl/90/248/s153/a), inserted last sentence which provided that payments made on an erroneous report by the Defense Department of the death, in the line of duty, of a member of the uniformed services on active duty are not to be deemed incorrect payments until the Department notifies the Secretary that he is alive.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 90–248, § 152(a)](/us/pl/90/248/s152/a), incorporated in par. (2) part of existing provisions and broadened Secretary’s authority to provide that in the case of underpayments, the Secretary is to pay the balance due the underpaid person but if he dies before receiving the full amount due him or before negotiating checks representing the correct payments, the balance due or the amount for which the checks were issued but not negotiated are to be paid under subsec. (d) of this section.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 90–248, § 152(b)](/us/pl/90/248/s152/b), authorized the Secretary to waive adjustment or recovery of overpayments from any person who is without fault, even where he is not the overpaid person and the latter is at fault, whereas heretofore a condition for waiver was that the overpaid person be without fault.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 90–248, § 154(a)](/us/pl/90/248/s154/a), struck out, in text preceding par. (1), provision excepting subsec. (d) from subsec. (a) and provision that the total amount due at the time of death may not exceed the amount of the monthly insurance benefit to which an individual was entitled for the month preceding the month in which he died, added cl. (ii) in par. (1), added pars. (2) to (6), designated existing provisions as par. (7) and inserted therein references to pars. (1) to (6).

1965—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 89–97](/us/pl/89/97) added subsec. (d).

1954—Subsec. (a). Act Sept. 1, 1954, inserted “and self-employment income” after “wages” in second sentence.

1950—Act Aug. 28, 1950, substituted “Administrator” for “board”.

1939—Act Aug. 10, 1939, omitted former provisions relating to payments to aged individuals not qualified for benefits and substituted the present section relating to overpayments and underpayments.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–165, title I, § 104(c)](/us/pl/115/165/tI/s104/c), Apr. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1264](/us/stat/132/1264), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to overpayment determinations made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Apr. 13, 2018] and to any other overpaid amounts that have not been recovered as of such date.”

#### Effective Date of 2015 Amendment

[Pub. L. 114–74, title VIII, § 834(c)](/us/pl/114/74/tVIII/s834/c), Nov. 2, 2015, [129 Stat. 615](/us/stat/129/615), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and [section 1383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1383)] shall apply with respect to determinations made on or after the date that is 3 months after the date of the enactment of this section [Nov. 2, 2015].”

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–115, § 2(c)](/us/pl/111/115/s2/c), Dec. 15, 2009, [123 Stat. 3030](/us/stat/123/3030), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and [section 1383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1383)] shall be effective for payments that would otherwise be made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 15, 2009].”

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–203, title II, § 210(c)](/us/pl/108/203/tII/s210/c), Mar. 2, 2004, [118 Stat. 517](/us/stat/118/517), provided that: “The amendments and repeal made by this section [amending this section and sections 1008, 1320b–17, and 1383 of this title and repealing [section 1320b–18 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–18)] shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 2, 2004], and shall be effective with respect to overpayments under titles II, VIII, and XVI of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t42/s401) et seq., 1001 et seq., 1381 et seq.] that are outstanding on or after such date.”

#### Effective Date of 1999 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–169, title II, § 201(c)](/us/pl/106/169/tII/s201/c), Dec. 14, 1999, [113 Stat. 1831](/us/stat/113/1831), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and [section 1383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1383)] shall apply to overpayments made 12 months or more after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 14, 1999].”

Amendment by [section 203(c) of Pub. L. 106–169](/us/pl/106/169/s203/c) applicable to debt outstanding on or after Dec. 14, 1999, see [section 203(d) of Pub. L. 106–169](/us/pl/106/169/s203/d), set out as a note under [section 3701 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3701), Money and Finance.

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

[Pub. L. 105–306, § 8(c)](/us/pl/105/306/s8/c), Oct. 28, 1998, [112 Stat. 2930](/us/stat/112/2930), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting [section 1320b–17 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320b–17) and amending this section and [section 1383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1383)] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 1998] and shall apply to amounts incorrectly paid which remain outstanding on or after such date.”

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendments

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–387](/us/pl/103/387) applicable to collection activities begun on or after Oct. 22, 1994, see [section 5(c) of Pub. L. 103–387](/us/pl/103/387/s5/c), as amended, set out as a note under [section 3701 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3701), Money and Finance.

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296) effective Mar. 31, 1995, see [section 110(a) of Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296/s110/a), set out as a note under [section 401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s401).

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–508](/us/pl/101/508) effective Jan. 1, 1991, and inapplicable to refunds to which the amendments made by section 2653 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, [Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369), do not apply, see [section 5129(d) of Pub. L. 101–508](/us/pl/101/508/s5129/d), set out as a note under [section 6402 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s6402), Internal Revenue Code.

#### Effective Date of 1989 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–239](/us/pl/101/239) applicable with respect to determinations made on or after July 1, 1990, see [section 10305(f) of Pub. L. 101–239](/us/pl/101/239/s10305/f), set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s403).

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

[Pub. L. 99–272, title XII, § 12113(c)](/us/pl/99/272/tXII/s12113/c), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 289](/us/stat/100/289), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and [section 1383 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1383)] shall apply only in the case of deaths of which the Secretary is first notified on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Apr. 7, 1986].”

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–265](/us/pl/96/265) applicable in the case of payments of monthly insurance benefits under this subchapter, entitlement for which is determined on or after July 1, 1981, see [section 501(d) of Pub. L. 96–265](/us/pl/96/265/s501/d), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1320a–6 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1320a–6).

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

[Pub. L. 90–248, title I, § 153(b)](/us/pl/90/248/tI/s153/b), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 861](/us/stat/81/861), provided that: “The amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall apply with respect to benefits under title II of the Social Security Act [this subchapter] if the individual to whom such benefits were paid would have been entitled to such benefits in or after the month in which this Act was enacted [January 1968] if the report mentioned in the amendment made by subsection (a) of this section had been correct (but without regard to the provisions of section 202(j)(1) of such Act [[42 U.S.C. 402(j)(1)](/us/usc/t42/s402/j/1)]).”

#### Effective Date of 1939 Amendment

[Act Aug. 10, 1939, ch. 666, title II, § 201](/us/act/1939-08-10/ch666/tII/s201), [53 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/53/1362), provided that the amendment made by that section is effective Jan. 1, 1940.

#### Report on Overpayment Waivers

[Pub. L. 114–74, title VIII, § 845(c)](/us/pl/114/74/tVIII/s845/c), Nov. 2, 2015, [129 Stat. 619](/us/stat/129/619), provided that: “Not later than January 1 of each calendar year, the Commissioner of Social Security shall submit to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report on— “(1) the number and total value of overpayments recovered or scheduled to be recovered by the Social Security Administration during the previous fiscal year of benefits under title II and title XVI [probably means title II and title XVI of [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), which are classified to [42 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t42/s401) et seq. and [42 U.S.C. 1381](/us/usc/t42/s1381) et seq.], respectively, including the terms and conditions of repayment of such overpayments; and “(2) the number and total value of overpayments waived by the Social Security Administration during the previous fiscal year of benefits under title II and title XVI, respectively.”
