---
title: "§ 16236. Research and development into integrating renewable energy onto the electric grid"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16236"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16236"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 936](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s936), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VIII, § 8004(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVIII/s8004/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2583](/us/stat/134/2583).)"
---
# § 16236. Research and development into integrating renewable energy onto the electric grid

##### § 16236. Research and development into integrating renewable energy onto the electric grid

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after December 27, 2020, the Secretary shall establish a research, development, and demonstration program on technologies that enable integration of renewable energy generation sources onto the electric grid across multiple program offices of the Department. The program shall include—

(1) forecasting for predicting generation from variable renewable energy sources;

(2) development of cost-effective low-loss, long-distance transmission lines; and

(3) development of cost-effective advanced technologies for variable renewable generation sources to provide grid services.

(b) Coordination In carrying out this program, the Secretary shall coordinate across all relevant program offices at the Department to achieve the goals established in this section, including the Office of Electricity.

(c) Adoption of technologies In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consider barriers to adoption and commercial application of technologies that enable integration of renewable energy sources onto the electric grid, including cost and other economic barriers, and shall coordinate with relevant entities to reduce these barriers.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 936](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s936), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title VIII, § 8004(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tVIII/s8004/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2583](/us/stat/134/2583).)*
