---
title: "§ 6408. Permissive terms"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6408"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6408"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1999I](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1999I), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3920](/us/stat/104/3920).)"
---
# § 6408. Permissive terms

##### § 6408. Permissive terms

(a) In general Each order issued under this chapter may contain one or more of the terms and conditions described in this section.

(b) Advertising The order may provide for the establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs or projects for the advertising of fluid milk products and the use of funds collected under this chapter for such programs or projects.

(c) Research and development The order may provide for establishing and carrying out research projects and studies to support the advertising efforts for fluid milk products, and the use of funds collected under the order for such projects and studies.

(d) Reserve funds The order may provide authority to accumulate reserve funds from assessments collected pursuant to the order, to permit an effective and continuous coordinated program of research and advertising in years when the assessment income may be reduced, except that the total reserve fund may not exceed 25 percent of the amount budgeted for the operation in the current fiscal year of the order.

(e) Other terms The order may contain such other terms and conditions incidental to and not inconsistent with the terms and conditions specified in this chapter as are necessary to effectuate the other provisions of the order.

*([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1999I](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1999I), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3920](/us/stat/104/3920).)*
