---
title: "§ 1704. National Recording Registry Collection of the Library of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1704"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1704"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–474, title I, § 104](/us/pl/106/474/tI/s104), Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2087](/us/stat/114/2087).)"
---
# § 1704. National Recording Registry Collection of the Library of Congress

##### § 1704. National Recording Registry Collection of the Library of Congress

(a) In general All copies of sound recordings on the National Recording Registry that are received by the Librarian under subsection (b) shall be maintained in the Library of Congress and be known as the “National Recording Registry Collection of the Library of Congress”. The Librarian shall by regulation and in accordance with title 17 provide for reasonable access to the sound recordings and other materials in such collection for scholarly and research purposes.

(b) Acquisition of quality copies

(1) In general The Librarian shall seek to obtain, by gift from the owner, a quality copy of the Registry version of each sound recording included in the National Recording Registry.

(2) Limit on number of copies Not more than one copy of the same version or take of any sound recording may be preserved in the National Recording Registry. Nothing in the preceding sentence may be construed to prohibit the Librarian from making or distributing copies of sound recordings included in the Registry for purposes of carrying out this Act.

(c) Property of United States All copies of sound recordings on the National Recording Registry that are received by the Librarian under subsection (b) shall become the property of the United States Government, subject to the provisions of title 17.

*([Pub. L. 106–474, title I, § 104](/us/pl/106/474/tI/s104), Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2087](/us/stat/114/2087).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [Pub. L. 106–474](/us/pl/106/474), Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/114/2085), known as the National Recording Preservation Act of 2000, which enacted this chapter and chapter 1524 (§ 152401 et seq.) of Title 36, Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and Organizations. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1701) and Tables.
