---
title: "§ 10552. Applications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10552"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10552"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2702](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2702), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1108(b)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1108/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1502](/us/stat/114/1502); amended [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(j)(2)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/j/2), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. S, title V, § 502(2)](/us/pl/115/141/dS/tV/s502/2), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1130](/us/stat/132/1130).)"
---
# § 10552. Applications

##### § 10552. Applications

(a) In general To request a grant under this subchapter, the chief executive of a State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe shall submit an application to the COPS Director or the BJA Director, as the case may be, at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the COPS Director or the BJA Director may require. Each application shall—

(1) include a detailed explanation of—

(A) the intended uses of funds provided under the grant; and

(B) how the activities funded under the grant will meet the purpose of this subchapter;

(2) be accompanied by an assurance that the application was prepared after consultation with individuals not limited to law enforcement officers (such as school violence researchers, licensed mental health professionals, social workers, teachers, principals, and other school personnel) to ensure that the improvements to be funded under the grant are—

(A) consistent with a comprehensive approach to preventing school violence; and

(B) individualized to the needs of each school at which those improvements are to be made;

(3) include an assurance that the applicant shall maintain and report such data, records, and information (programmatic and financial) as the COPS Director or the BJA Director may reasonably require;

(4) include a certification, made in a form acceptable to the COPS Director or the BJA Director, as the case may be, that—

(A) the programs to be funded by the grant meet all the requirements of this subchapter;

(B) all the information contained in the application is correct; and

(C) the applicant will comply with all provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable Federal laws.

(b) Guidelines Not later than 90 days after March 23, 2018, the COPS Director and the BJA Director shall each promulgate guidelines to implement this section (including the information that must be included and the requirements that the States, units of local government, and Indian tribes must meet) in submitting the applications required under this section.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2702](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2702), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1108(b)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1108/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1502](/us/stat/114/1502); amended [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(j)(2)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/j/2), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. S, title V, § 502(2)](/us/pl/115/141/dS/tV/s502/2), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1130](/us/stat/132/1130).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(2)(A)(i)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/2/A/i), in introductory provisions, substituted “the COPS Director or the BJA Director, as the case may be,” for “the Director” after “application to” and “the COPS Director or the BJA Director may” for “the Director may”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(2)(A)(iii)(I)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/2/A/iii/I), substituted “licensed mental health professionals” for “child psychologists” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(2)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/2/A/ii), (iii)(II), (iv), added pars. (3) and (4).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(2)(B)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/2/B), substituted “March 23, 2018” for “October 28, 2000” and “COPS Director and the BJA Director shall each” for “Director shall”.

2006—[Pub. L. 109–271](/us/pl/109/271) substituted “Director” for “Attorney General” wherever appearing.
