---
title: "§ 21131. Additional regional computer forensic labs"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–401, title II, § 201](/us/pl/110/401/tII/s201), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4241](/us/stat/122/4241).)"
---
# § 21131. Additional regional computer forensic labs

##### § 21131. Additional regional computer forensic labs

(a) Additional resources The Attorney General shall establish additional computer forensic capacity to address the current backlog for computer forensics, including for child exploitation investigations. The Attorney General may utilize funds under this subchapter to increase capacity at existing regional forensic laboratories or to add laboratories under the Regional Computer Forensic Laboratories Program operated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(b) Purpose of new resources The additional forensic capacity established by resources provided under this section shall be dedicated to assist Federal agencies, State and local Internet Crimes Against Children task forces, and other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies in preventing, investigating, and prosecuting Internet crimes against children.

(c) New computer forensic labs If the Attorney General determines that new regional computer forensic laboratories are required under subsection (a) to best address existing backlogs, such new laboratories shall be established pursuant to subsection (d).

(d) Location of new labs The location of any new regional computer forensic laboratories under this section shall be determined by the Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Regional Computer Forensic Laboratory National Steering Committee, and other relevant stakeholders.

(e) Report Not later than 1 year after October 13, 2008, and every year thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit a report to the Congress on how the funds appropriated under this section were utilized.

(f) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 2009 through 2013, $2,000,000 to carry out the provisions of this section.

*([Pub. L. 110–401, title II, § 201](/us/pl/110/401/tII/s201), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4241](/us/stat/122/4241).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 17631 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s17631), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
