---
title: "§ 4601. Establishment of Take Pride in America Program"
identifier: "USC-T16-S4601"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section4601"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–628, title XI, § 1102](/us/pl/101/628/tXI/s1102), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4502](/us/stat/104/4502).)"
---
# § 4601. Establishment of Take Pride in America Program

##### § 4601. Establishment of Take Pride in America Program

(a) In general There is hereby established the Take Pride in America Program within the Department of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the “TPIA Program”).

(b) Purposes The purposes of the TPIA Program shall include the following:

(1) To establish and maintain a public awareness campaign in cooperation with public and private organizations and individuals—

(A) to instill in the public the importance of the appropriate use of, and appreciation for Federal, State, and local lands, facilities, and natural and cultural resources;

(B) to encourage an attitude of stewardship and responsibility toward these lands, facilities, and resources; and

(C) to promote participation by individuals, organizations, and communities of a conservation ethic in caring for these lands, facilities, and resources.

(2) To conduct a national awards program to honor those individuals and entities which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this chapter referred to as the “Secretary”), have distinguished themselves in the activities described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 101–628, title XI, § 1102](/us/pl/101/628/tXI/s1102), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4502](/us/stat/104/4502).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), was in the original “this Act”, and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title XI of [Pub. L. 101–628](/us/pl/101/628), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4502](/us/stat/104/4502), known as the Take Pride in America Act, which is classified generally to this chapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 101–628, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/101/628/tXI/s1101), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4502](/us/stat/104/4502), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Take Pride in America Act’.”
