---
title: "§ 1226c–1. Availability of education reports, etc., to Congressional committees"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1226c–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1226c–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–561, title XV, § 1523](/us/pl/95/561/tXV/s1523), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2378](/us/stat/92/2378); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 7(b)](/us/pl/103/437/s7/b), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4587](/us/stat/108/4587).)"
---
# § 1226c–1. Availability of education reports, etc., to Congressional committees

##### § 1226c–1. Availability of education reports, etc., to Congressional committees

Any evaluation report or data or information collected in preparation of such report, which is paid for with appropriated funds, shall be made available, upon request, within 4 days to the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and of the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 95–561, title XV, § 1523](/us/pl/95/561/tXV/s1523), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2378](/us/stat/92/2378); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 7(b)](/us/pl/103/437/s7/b), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4587](/us/stat/108/4587).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of Education Amendments of 1978, and not as part of General Education Provisions Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Labor and Human Resources” for “Human Resources”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.

Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1978, see [section 1530(a) of Pub. L. 95–561](/us/pl/95/561/s1530/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 1221e–3 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1221e–3).
