---
title: "§ 2000d–6. Policy of United States as to application of nondiscrimination provisions in schools of local educational agencies"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2000d–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2000d–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–230, § 2](/us/pl/91/230/s2), Apr. 13, 1970, [84 Stat. 121](/us/stat/84/121); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)"
---
# § 2000d–6. Policy of United States as to application of nondiscrimination provisions in schools of local educational agencies

##### § 2000d–6. Policy of United States as to application of nondiscrimination provisions in schools of local educational agencies

(a) Declaration of uniform policy It is the policy of the United States that guidelines and criteria established pursuant to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [[42 U.S.C. 2000d](/us/usc/t42/s2000d) et seq.] and section 182 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Amendments of 1966 [[42 U.S.C. 2000d–5](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–5)] dealing with conditions of segregation by race, whether de jure or de facto, in the schools of the local educational agencies of any State shall be applied uniformly in all regions of the United States whatever the origin or cause of such segregation.

(b) Nature of uniformity Such uniformity refers to one policy applied uniformly to de jure segregation wherever found and such other policy as may be provided pursuant to law applied uniformly to de facto segregation wherever found.

(c) Prohibition of construction for diminution of obligation for enforcement or compliance with nondiscrimination requirements Nothing in this section shall be construed to diminish the obligation of responsible officials to enforce or comply with such guidelines and criteria in order to eliminate discrimination in federally assisted programs and activities as required by title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [[42 U.S.C. 2000d](/us/usc/t42/s2000d) et seq.].

(d) Additional funds It is the sense of the Congress that the Department of Justice and the Secretary of Education should request such additional funds as may be necessary to apply the policy set forth in this section throughout the United States.

*([Pub. L. 91–230, § 2](/us/pl/91/230/s2), Apr. 13, 1970, [84 Stat. 121](/us/stat/84/121); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is classified generally to this subchapter (§ 2000d et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Elementary and Secondary Education Amendments of 1969, and not as part of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title VI of which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Education” substituted for “Department of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsec. (d) pursuant to sections 301 and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441 and 3507 of Title 20, Education, and which transferred functions and offices (relating to education) of Department and Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to Secretary of Education.
