---
title: "§ 4703. Payment of compensation; insurance"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Mar. 24, 1943, ch. 26, § 3](/us/act/1943-03-24/ch26/s3), [57 Stat. 48](/us/stat/57/48); [July 25, 1947, ch. 327, § 1](/us/act/1947-07-25/ch327/s1), [61 Stat. 449](/us/stat/61/449).)"
---
# § 4703. Payment of compensation; insurance

##### § 4703. Payment of compensation; insurance

(a) , (b) Omitted.

(c) In the event that a vessel the title or use and possession of which is requisitioned or taken pursuant to chapter 563 of title 46 or the Act of June 6, 1941 (Public Law 101, Seventy-seventh Congress), is in the custody of any court, State or Federal, it shall be the duty of all agents and officers of the court having possession, custody, or control of said vessel, forthwith upon the filing with the clerk of said court of a certified copy of the order of requisitioning or taking, and without further order of the court, to comply with said requisitioning or taking and to permit the representatives of the United States Maritime Commission or the War Shipping Administration,11 See Transfer of Functions note below. as the case may be, to take possession, custody, and control of said vessel.

(d) to (k) Omitted.

*([Mar. 24, 1943, ch. 26, § 3](/us/act/1943-03-24/ch26/s3), [57 Stat. 48](/us/stat/57/48); [July 25, 1947, ch. 327, § 1](/us/act/1947-07-25/ch327/s1), [61 Stat. 449](/us/stat/61/449).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of June 6, 1941 (Public Law 101, Seventy-seventh Congress), referred to in subsec. (c), is [act June 6, 1941, ch. 174](/us/act/1941-06-06/ch174), [55 Stat. 242](/us/stat/55/242), which was classified to former sections 1271 to 1275 of the former Appendix to this title and has been omitted from the Code as expired.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1293 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is comprised of section 3 of act Mar. 24, 1943. Subsec. (a) of section 3 of the Act amended [act June 6, 1941, ch. 174, § 1](/us/act/1941-06-06/ch174/s1), [55 Stat. 242](/us/stat/55/242), which was classified to former section 1271 of the former Appendix to this title and has been omitted from the Code as expired. Subsec. (b) of section 3 of the Act, dealing with power of War Shipping Administrator to determine whether ownership of a vessel was required by the United States, expired with the termination on Sept. 1, 1946, of the War Shipping Administration, as set forth in the Transfer of Functions note below. Subsec. (d) of section 3 of the Act amended section 902 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, [act June 29, 1936, ch. 858, title IX, § 902](/us/act/1936-06-29/ch858/tIX/s902), [49 Stat. 2015](/us/stat/49/2015), which was classified to section 1242 of the former Appendix to Title 46, Shipping, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 109–304, § 19](/us/pl/109/304/s19), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1710](/us/stat/120/1710), and which was reenacted as chapter 563 of Title 46, Shipping. Subsecs. (e) to (h) of section 3 of the Act amended sections 1128b to 1128e, respectively, of former Title 46, Shipping. Subsec. (i) of section 3 of the Act enacted section 1128h of former Title 46 and was repealed by [act July 25, 1947, ch. 327, § 1](/us/act/1947-07-25/ch327/s1), [61 Stat. 449](/us/stat/61/449). Subsecs. (j) and (k) of section 3 of the Act amended sections 3 and 4 of [act June 6, 1941, ch. 174](/us/act/1941-06-06/ch174), [55 Stat. 243](/us/stat/55/243), 244, which were classified to former sections 1273 and 1274, respectively, of the former Appendix to this title and have been omitted from the Code as expired.

In subsec. (c), “chapter 563 of title 46” substituted for “section 902 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended,” on authority of [Pub. L. 109–304, § 18(c)](/us/pl/109/304/s18/c), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1709](/us/stat/120/1709), which Act enacted chapter 563 of Title 46, Shipping.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

War Shipping Administration terminated as of Sept. 1, 1946, and functions, powers, duties, etc., transferred to United States Maritime Commission for period Sept. 1, 1946, to Dec. 31, 1946, for purpose of liquidating Administration, by [act July 8, 1946, ch. 543, title II, § 202](/us/act/1946-07-08/ch543/tII/s202), [60 Stat. 501](/us/stat/60/501).

Maritime Administration transferred from Department of Commerce to Department of Transportation by Maritime Act of 1981, [Pub. L. 97–31](/us/pl/97/31), Aug. 6, 1981, [95 Stat. 151](/us/stat/95/151), which was repealed in part by [Pub. L. 109–304, § 19](/us/pl/109/304/s19), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1710](/us/stat/120/1710). See [section 109 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s109), Transportation.

#### Vessel Operations Under Revolving Fund

Vessel operations conducted under Vessel Operations Revolving Fund, applicability of subsec. (c) of this section to, see section 50301(a) to (e) of Title 46, Shipping.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

United States Maritime Commission abolished by Reorg. Plan No. 21, 1950, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1273](/us/stat/64/1273), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, which transferred part of its functions and part of functions of its Chairman to Federal Maritime Board and Chairman thereof, that Board having been created by that Plan as an agency within Department of Commerce with an independent status in some respects, and transferred remainder of Commission’s functions and functions of its Chairman to Secretary of Commerce, with power vested in Secretary to authorize their performance by Maritime Administrator, the head of Maritime Administration, which likewise was established by the Plan in Department of Commerce with provision that Chairman of Federal Maritime Board should, ex officio, be that Administrator.

Federal Maritime Board, including offices of members of Board, abolished by section 304 of Reorg. Plan No. 7 of 1961, eff. Aug. 12, 1961, 26 F.R. 7315, [75 Stat. 843](/us/stat/75/843), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Functions of Board transferred either to Federal Maritime Commission or to Secretary of Commerce by sections 103 and 202 of Reorg. Plan No. 7 of 1961.
