---
title: "§ 8314. Enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T7-S8314"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section8314"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–171, title X, § 10415](/us/pl/107/171/tX/s10415), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 505](/us/stat/116/505); [Pub. L. 110–234, title XI, § 11012(b)](/us/pl/110/234/tXI/s11012/b), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1360](/us/stat/122/1360); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XI, § 11012(b), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2122.)"
---
# § 8314. Enforcement

##### § 8314. Enforcement

(a) Collection of information

(1) In general The Secretary may gather and compile information and conduct any inspection or investigation that the Secretary considers to be necessary for the administration or enforcement of this chapter.

(2) Subpoenas

(A) In general The Secretary shall have the power to subpoena the attendance and testimony of any witness, the production of all evidence (including books, papers, documents, electronically stored information, and other tangible things that constitute or contain evidence), or to require the person to whom the subpoena is directed to permit the inspection of premises relating to the administration or enforcement of this chapter 11 See References in Text note below. or any matter under investigation in connection with this chapter.1

(B) Location of production The attendance of any witness and production of evidence relevant to the inquiry may be required from any place in the United States.

(C) Enforcement

(i) In general In case of disobedience to a subpoena by any person, the Secretary may request the Attorney General to invoke the aid of any court of the United States within the jurisdiction in which the investigation is conducted, or where the person resides, is found, transacts business, is licensed to do business, or is incorporated, to require the attendance and testimony of any witness, the production of evidence, or the inspection of premises.

(ii) Noncompliance In case of a refusal to obey a subpoena issued to any person, a court may order the person to appear before the Secretary and give evidence concerning the matter in question, produce evidence, or permit the inspection of premises.

(iii) Contempt Any failure to obey the order of the court may be punished by the court as contempt of the court.

(D) Compensation

(i) Witnesses A witness summoned by the Secretary under this chapter shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid to a witness in a court of the United States.

(ii) Depositions A witness whose deposition is taken, and the person taking the deposition, shall be entitled to the same fees that are paid for similar services in a court of the United States.

(E) Procedures

(i) Publication The Secretary shall publish procedures for the issuance of subpoenas under this section.

(ii) Review The procedures shall include a requirement that subpoenas be reviewed for legal sufficiency and, to be effective, be signed by the Secretary.

(iii) Delegation If the authority to sign a subpoena is delegated to an agency other than the Office of Administrative Law Judges, the agency receiving the delegation shall seek review of the subpoena for legal sufficiency outside that agency.

(b) Authority of Attorney General The Attorney General may—

(1) prosecute, in the name of the United States, all criminal violations of this chapter that are referred to the Attorney General by the Secretary or are brought to the notice of the Attorney General by any person;

(2) bring an action to enjoin the violation of or to compel compliance with this chapter, or to enjoin any interference by any person with the Secretary in carrying out this chapter, in any case in which the Secretary has reason to believe that the person has violated, or is about to violate this chapter or has interfered, or is about to interfere, with the actions of the Secretary; or

(3) bring an action for the recovery of any unpaid civil penalty, funds under a reimbursable agreement, late payment penalty, or interest assessed under this chapter.

(c) Court jurisdiction

(1) In general The United States district courts, the District Court of Guam, the District Court of the Northern Mariana Islands, the District Court of the Virgin Islands, the highest court of American Samoa, and the United States courts of the other territories and possessions are vested with jurisdiction in all cases arising under this chapter.

(2) Venue Any action arising under this chapter may be brought, and process may be served, in the judicial district where a violation or interference occurred or is about to occur, or where the person charged with the violation, interference, impending violation, impending interference, or failure to pay resides, is found, transacts business, is licensed to do business, or is incorporated.

(3) Exception Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply to sections 8309(c) and 8313(b) of this title.

*([Pub. L. 107–171, title X, § 10415](/us/pl/107/171/tX/s10415), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 505](/us/stat/116/505); [Pub. L. 110–234, title XI, § 11012(b)](/us/pl/110/234/tXI/s11012/b), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1360](/us/stat/122/1360); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XI, § 11012(b), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2122.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(A), was in the original “this title”, and was translated as reading “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle E (§§ 10401–10418) of title X of [Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 494](/us/stat/116/494), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) were repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 11012(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/246/s11012/b/1), added subpar. (A) and struck out former subpar. (A). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall have power to issue a subpoena to compel the attendance and testimony of any witness and the production of any documentary evidence relating to the administration or enforcement of this chapter or any matter under investigation in connection with this chapter.”

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 11012(b)(2)](/us/pl/110/246/s11012/b/2), struck out “documentary” before “evidence”.

Subsec. (a)(2)(C)(i). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 11012(b)(3)(A)](/us/pl/110/246/s11012/b/3/A), substituted “testimony of any witness, the production of evidence, or the inspection of premises” for “testimony of any witness and the production of documentary evidence”.

Subsec. (a)(2)(C)(ii). [Pub. L. 110–246, § 11012(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/110/246/s11012/b/3/B), substituted “question, produce evidence, or permit the inspection of premises” for “question or to produce documentary evidence”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment of this section and repeal of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234), see [section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 8701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8701).

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to agricultural import and entry inspection activities under this chapter to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 231, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
