---
title: "§ 8908. Coverage of restored employees and survivor or disability annuitants"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8908"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8908"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 605](/us/stat/80/605); [Pub. L. 94–342, § 1(a)](/us/pl/94/342/s1/a), July 6, 1976, [90 Stat. 808](/us/stat/90/808); [Pub. L. 95–454, title IX, § 906(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/454/tIX/s906/a/2), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/92/1224); [Pub. L. 99–53](/us/pl/99/53), §§ 2(a), 3(a)(1), (2)(A), June 17, 1985, [99 Stat. 94](/us/stat/99/94), 95; [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(f) [title VI, § 633(a)(3)]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/f/tV"
---
# § 8908. Coverage of restored employees and survivor or disability annuitants

##### § 8908. Coverage of restored employees and survivor or disability annuitants

(a) An employee enrolled in a health benefits plan under this chapter who is removed or suspended without pay and later reinstated or restored to duty on the ground that the removal or suspension was unjustified or unwarranted may, at his option, enroll as a new employee or have his coverage restored, with appropriate adjustments made in contributions and claims, to the same extent and effect as though the removal or suspension had not taken place.

(b) A surviving spouse whose survivor annuity under this title was terminated because of remarriage and is later restored may, under such regulations as the Office of Personnel Management may prescribe, enroll in a health benefits plan described by section 8903 or 8903a of this title if such spouse was covered by any such plan immediately before such annuity was terminated.

(c) A disability annuitant whose disability annuity under [section 8337 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8337) was terminated and is later restored under the second or third sentence of subsection (e) of such section may, under regulations prescribed by the Office, enroll in a health benefits plan described by section 8903 or 8903a of this title if such annuitant was covered by any such plan immediately before such annuity was termi­nated.

(d) A surviving child whose survivor annuity under section 8341(e) or 8443(b) was terminated and is later restored under paragraph (4) of section 8341(e) or the last sentence of section 8443(b) may, under regulations prescribed by the Office, enroll in a health benefits plan described by section 8903 or 8903a if such surviving child was covered by any such plan immediately before such annuity was terminated.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 605](/us/stat/80/605); [Pub. L. 94–342, § 1(a)](/us/pl/94/342/s1/a), July 6, 1976, [90 Stat. 808](/us/stat/90/808); [Pub. L. 95–454, title IX, § 906(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/454/tIX/s906/a/2), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/92/1224); [Pub. L. 99–53](/us/pl/99/53), §§ 2(a), 3(a)(1), (2)(A), June 17, 1985, [99 Stat. 94](/us/stat/99/94), 95; [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(f) [title VI, § 633(a)(3)]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/f/tVI/s633/a/3), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–314](/us/stat/110/3009-314), 3009–363.)*

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 3009(c). | Sept. 28, 1959, Pub. L. 86–382, § 10(c), 73 Stat. 715. |
|  |  | Mar. 17, 1964, Pub. L. 88–284, § 1 (less (1)–(13)), 78 Stat. 165. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208) added subsec. (d).

1985—[Pub. L. 99–53, § 3(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/99/53/s3/a/2/A), inserted “or disability” after “and survivor” in section catchline.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–53, § 2(a)](/us/pl/99/53/s2/a), inserted reference to [section 8903a of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8903a).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 99–53, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/99/53/s3/a/1), added subsec. (c).

1978—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) substituted “Office of Personnel Management” for “Civil Service Commission”.

1976—[Pub. L. 94–342](/us/pl/94/342) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), added subsec. (b), and substituted “employees and survivor annuitants” for “employee” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208) applicable with respect to termination of marriage taking effect before, on, or after Sept. 30, 1996, except that benefits are payable only with respect to amounts accruing for periods beginning on first day of month beginning after the later of termination of marriage or Sept. 30, 1996, see section 101(f) [title VI, § 633(b)] of [Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208), set out as a note under [section 8341 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8341).

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

[Pub. L. 94–342, § 2](/us/pl/94/342/s2), July 6, 1976, [90 Stat. 808](/us/stat/90/808), provided that: “The amendments made by the first section of this Act [amending this section] shall take effect on October 1, 1976, or on the date of the enactment of this Act [July 6, 1976], whichever date is later. Such amendments shall apply with respect to individuals whose survivor annuities are restored before, on, or after such date.”

#### Insurance Coverage for Restored Disability Annuitants

For provisions directing that subsec. (c) of this section shall apply with respect to any individual whose disability annuity is or was restored under [section 8337(e) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8337/e) after December 31, 1983, directing that the Office of Personnel Management notify each individual of any rights which such individual may have under subsec. (c) of this section, including any procedures or deadlines which might apply with respect to the exercise of those rights, directing that such notification be provided to any individual who, as of the 90th day after June 17, 1985, is receiving a disability annuity which was restored to such individual under [section 8337(e) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8337/e) after December 31, 1983, directing that nothing in subsec. (c) of this section be construed to authorize coverage under this chapter in the case of any individual who becomes enrolled in a health benefits plan under subsec. (c) of this section for any period before the date as of which such individual becomes so enrolled, and directing that such rule of construction apply with respect to any individual receiving a disability annuity which is or was restored under [section 8337(e) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8337/e) after December 31, 1983, and before the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on June 17, 1985, see [section 3(c) of Pub. L. 99–53](/us/pl/99/53/s3/c), set out as a note under [section 8706 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8706).
