---
title: "§ 2656. Training grants"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2656"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2656"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–469, title II, § 216](/us/pl/94/469/tII/s216), as added [Pub. L. 101–637, § 16(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/637/s16/a/1), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4597](/us/stat/104/4597).)"
---
# § 2656. Training grants

##### § 2656. Training grants

(a) Grants The Administrator is authorized to award grants under this section to nonprofit organizations that demonstrate experience in implementing and operating health and safety asbestos training and education programs for workers who are or will be engaged in asbestos-related activities (including State and local governments, colleges and universities, joint labor-management trust funds, and nonprofit government employee organizations) to establish and, or, operate asbestos training programs on a not-for-profit basis. Applications for grants under this subsection shall be submitted in such form and manner, and contain such information, as the Administrator prescribes.

(b) Authorization Of such sums as are authorized to be appropriated pursuant to [section 4021(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s4021/a) for the fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995, not more than $5,000,000 are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section in each such fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 94–469, title II, § 216](/us/pl/94/469/tII/s216), as added [Pub. L. 101–637, § 16(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/637/s16/a/1), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4597](/us/stat/104/4597).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 101–637, § 16(b)](/us/pl/101/637/s16/b), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4598](/us/stat/104/4598), provided that: “Section 216 of the Toxic Substances Control Act [this section], as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 28, 1990].”
