---
title: "§ 2804. Report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2804"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2804"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–532, title V, § 504](/us/pl/92/532/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 102–567, title V, § 501](/us/pl/102/567/tV/s501), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4299](/us/stat/106/4299).)"
---
# § 2804. Report to Congress

##### § 2804. Report to Congress

(1) an assessment of the status and health of the Nation’s coastal ecosystems;

(2) an evaluation of environmental trends in coastal ecosystems;

(3) identification of sources of enironmental 11 So in original. Probably should be “environmental”. degradation affecting coastal ecosystems;

(4) an assessment of the extent to which floatables degrade coastal ecosystems, including trends in the accumulation of floatables and the threat posed by floatables to aquatic life;

(5) an assessment of the impact of government programs designed to abate the degradation of coastal ecosystems: 22 So in original. Probably should be a semicolon.

(6) an evaluation of the adequacy of monitoring programs and identification of any additional program elements which may be needed; and

(7) a summary of monitoring results in areas monitored under subsection 33 So in original. Probably should be “section”. 2803(d) of this title.

*([Pub. L. 92–532, title V, § 504](/us/pl/92/532/tV/s504), as added [Pub. L. 102–567, title V, § 501](/us/pl/102/567/tV/s501), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4299](/us/stat/106/4299).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Public Works and Transportation of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress.

#### Abolition of House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries

Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives abolished and its jurisdiction transferred by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995. For treatment of references to Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, see [section 1(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/b/3), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress.
