---
title: "§ 5123. Speaker’s Office for Legislative Floor Activities"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–53, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/53/tI/s103), Nov. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 520](/us/stat/109/520).)"
---
# § 5123. Speaker’s Office for Legislative Floor Activities

##### § 5123. Speaker’s Office for Legislative Floor Activities

There is established in the House of Representatives an office to be known as the Speaker’s Office for Legislative Floor Activities. The Speaker shall appoint and set the annual rate of pay for employees of the Office. The Office shall have the responsibility of assisting the Speaker in the management of legislative floor activity.

*([Pub. L. 104–53, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/53/tI/s103), Nov. 19, 1995, [109 Stat. 520](/us/stat/109/520).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 74a–7 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s74a–7) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is based on section 223(b) of House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995, which was enacted into permanent law by [Pub. L. 104–53](/us/pl/104/53).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Majority and Minority Positions

[Pub. L. 107–68, title I, § 113](/us/pl/107/68/tI/s113), Nov. 12, 2001, [115 Stat. 572](/us/stat/115/572), provided that: “(a) Effective October 1, 2001, the following four majority positions shall be transferred from the Clerk to the Speaker:“(1) The position of chief of floor service. “(2) Two positions of assistant floor chief. “(3) One position of cloakroom attendant. “(b) Effective October 1, 2001, the following four minority positions shall be transferred from the Clerk to the minority leader:“(1) The position of chief of floor service. “(2) Two positions of assistant floor chief. “(3) One position of cloakroom attendant. “(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of an individual who is an incumbent of a position transferred under subsection (a) or subsection (b) at the time of the transfer, the total number of days of annual leave and the total number of days of sick leave which were provided by the Clerk to the individual and which remain unused as of the date of the transfer shall remain available for the individual to use after the transfer.”
