---
title: "§ 4121. Monies received by Attending Physician from sale of prescription drugs or other sources; deposit of receipts"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4121"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4121"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–163, title I](/us/pl/101/163/tI), Nov. 21, 1989, [103 Stat. 1051](/us/stat/103/1051).)"
---
# § 4121. Monies received by Attending Physician from sale of prescription drugs or other sources; deposit of receipts

##### § 4121. Monies received by Attending Physician from sale of prescription drugs or other sources; deposit of receipts

On November 21, 1989, the Office of the Attending Physician Revolving Fund established by the first undesignated paragraph under the center heading “Office of the Attending Physician Revolving Fund” in title III of the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1976 ([89 Stat. 283](/us/stat/89/283)) is abolished and all monies in the Fund on such date or subsequently received by the Attending Physician from the sale of prescription drugs or from any other source shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

*([Pub. L. 101–163, title I](/us/pl/101/163/tI), Nov. 21, 1989, [103 Stat. 1051](/us/stat/103/1051).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The first undesignated paragraph under the center heading “Office of the Attending Physician Revolving Fund” in title III of the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1976 [[Pub. L. 94–59](/us/pl/94/59)], referred to in text, is not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 117g of this title](/us/usc/t2/s117g) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1990, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1990.
