---
title: "§ 1179. National Drug Abuse Training Center"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1179"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1179"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–255, title IV, § 412](/us/pl/92/255/tIV/s412), Mar. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 84](/us/stat/86/84).)"
---
# § 1179. National Drug Abuse Training Center

##### § 1179. National Drug Abuse Training Center

(a) Establishment; functions; general policies; transfer of supervision The Director shall establish a National Drug Abuse Training Center (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Center”) to develop, conduct, and support a full range of training programs relating to drug abuse prevention functions. The Director shall consult with the National Advisory Council for Drug Abuse Prevention regarding the general policies of the Center. The Director may supervise the operation of the Center initially, but shall transfer the supervision of the operation of the Center to the National Institute on Drug Abuse not later than December 31, 1974.

(b) Activities and material The Center shall conduct or arrange for training programs, seminars, meetings, conferences, and other related activities, including the furnishing of training and educational materials for use by others.

(c) Persons eligible for services and facilities The services and facilities of the Center shall, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Director, be available to (1) Federal, State, and local governmental officials, and their respective staffs, (2) medical and paramedical personnel, and educators, and (3) other persons, including drug dependent persons, requiring training or education in drug abuse prevention.

(d) Authorization of appropriations; fiscal year availability

(1) For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1972, $3,000,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1973, $5,000,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1974, and $6,000,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975.

(2) Sums appropriated under this subsection shall remain available for obligation or expenditure in the fiscal year for which appropriated and in the fiscal year next following.

*([Pub. L. 92–255, title IV, § 412](/us/pl/92/255/tIV/s412), Mar. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 84](/us/stat/86/84).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Advisory Council for Drug Abuse Prevention, referred to in subsec. (a), was established by [section 1151 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1151), which was repealed by [Pub. L. 92–255, title I, § 104](/us/pl/92/255/tI/s104), Mar. 21, 1972, [86 Stat. 67](/us/stat/86/67), eff. June 30, 1975.
