---
title: "§ 19251. Interagency working group"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19251"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19251"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10651](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10651), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1682](/us/stat/136/1682).)"
---
# § 19251. Interagency working group

##### § 19251. Interagency working group

(a) Establishment The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, acting through the National Science and Technology Council, shall establish or designate an interagency working group to coordinate the activities specified in subsection (c).

(b) Composition The interagency working group shall be composed of the following members (or their designees), who may be organized into subcommittees, as appropriate:

(1) The Secretary of Commerce.

(2) The Director of the National Science Foundation.

(3) The Secretary of Energy.

(4) The Secretary of Defense.

(5) The Director of the National Economic Council.

(6) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

(7) The Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(8) The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

(9) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(10) The Director of National Intelligence.

(11) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(12) Such other Federal officials as the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy considers appropriate, including members of the National Science and Technology Council Committee on Technology.

(c) Coordination The interagency working group shall seek to ensure that the activities of different Federal agencies enhance and complement, but, as appropriate, do not duplicate, efforts being carried out by another Federal agency, with a focus on the following:

(1) The activities of the National Science Foundation Technology, Innovation, and Partnerships Directorate in the key technology focus areas, such as within the Regional Innovation Engines under [section 19108 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s19108) and test beds under [section 19110 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s19110).

(2) The activities of the Department of Commerce under this division, including regional technology hubs under [section 3722a of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s3722a), as added by section 10621, the Manufacturing USA Program established under [section 278s(b)(1) of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s278s/b/1), and the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership ([15 U.S.C. 278k](/us/usc/t15/s278k)).

(3) The activities of the Department of Energy in the key technology focus areas, including at the national laboratories, and at Federal laboratories, as defined in [section 3703 of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s3703), and facilities and user facilities operated in partnership with such national laboratories or the Department of Energy.

(4) Any other program that the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy determines involves research and development with respect to the key technology focus areas.

(d) Report The interagency working group shall—

(1) by not later than 180 days after August 9, 2022—

(A) conduct an initial review of Federal programs and resources with respect to the key technology focus areas identified pursuant to [section 19107(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s19107/a/2), in order to—

(i) assess current level of efforts and characterize existing research infrastructure, as of the date of the review;

(ii) identify potential areas of overlap or duplication with respect to the key technology focus areas; and

(iii) identify potential cross-agency collaborations and joint funding opportunities; and 11 So in original. The word “and” probably should not appear.

(B) submit a report regarding the review described in subparagraph (A) to Congress; and

(C) seek stakeholder input and recommendations in the course of such review; and

(2) shall 22 So in original. The word “shall” probably should not appear. carry out the annual reviews and updates required under [section 19107(e) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s19107/e).

(e) Conflicts If any conflicts between Federal agencies arise while carrying out the activities under this section, the President shall make the final decision regarding resolution of the conflict.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, § 10651](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tVI/s10651), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1682](/us/stat/136/1682).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This division, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), is div. B of [Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1399](/us/stat/136/1399), which enacted this chapter and enacted, amended, and repealed numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of div. B to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 18901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18901) and Tables.

Section 10621, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), means [section 10621 of Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167/s10621).
