---
title: "§ 857–16. Compensation and travel expenses"
identifier: "USC-T33-S857–16"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section857–16"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–63, § 5](/us/pl/95/63/s5), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 266](/us/stat/91/266); [Pub. L. 97–87, § 1(2)](/us/pl/97/87/s1/2), Dec. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/95/1134).)"
---
# § 857–16. Compensation and travel expenses

##### § 857–16. Compensation and travel expenses

Members of the Committee shall each be entitled to receive compensation not to exceed the daily rate for a GS–18 for each day (including traveltime) during which they are engaged in the actual performance of the duties of the Committee. In addition, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of the duties of the Committee, each member of the Committee shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703(b) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 5.

*([Pub. L. 95–63, § 5](/us/pl/95/63/s5), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 266](/us/stat/91/266); [Pub. L. 97–87, § 1(2)](/us/pl/97/87/s1/2), Dec. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/95/1134).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703), referred to in text, was amended generally by [Pub. L. 94–22, § 4](/us/pl/94/22/s4), May 19, 1975, [89 Stat. 85](/us/stat/89/85), and, as so amended, does not contain a subsec. (b).

#### Prior Provisions

A provision similar to that contained in this section, which authorized compensation and travel expenses for members of the National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere as originally established on Aug. 16, 1971, was contained in [section 857–10 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s857–10) prior to repeal by [section 7(a) of Pub. L. 95–63](/us/pl/95/63/s7/a).

#### Amendments

1981—[Pub. L. 97–87](/us/pl/97/87) substituted “not to exceed the daily rate for a GS–18” for “of $100 per day”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.

#### References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay Rates

References in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of [Pub. L. 101–509](/us/pl/101/509), set out in a note under [section 5376 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376).
