---
title: "§ 1842. Covering into Commonwealth treasury of tax proceeds collected pursuant to Covenant"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1842"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1842"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–205, title II, § 204(b)](/us/pl/96/205/tII/s204/b), Mar. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 87](/us/stat/94/87).)"
---
# § 1842. Covering into Commonwealth treasury of tax proceeds collected pursuant to Covenant

##### § 1842. Covering into Commonwealth treasury of tax proceeds collected pursuant to Covenant

The Secretary shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the proceeds of taxes collected under the provisions of sections 601, 602, 603, and 604 of the Covenant ([Public Law 94–241](/us/pl/94/241)) are covered directly upon collection into the treasury of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

*([Pub. L. 96–205, title II, § 204(b)](/us/pl/96/205/tII/s204/b), Mar. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 87](/us/stat/94/87).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Covenant, referred to in text, is the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, which is contained in [section 1 of Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241/s1), set out as a note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1801).

[Public Law 94–241](/us/pl/94/241), referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 94–241](/us/pl/94/241), Mar. 24, 1976, [90 Stat. 263](/us/stat/90/263), as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1801 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out as a note under [section 1681 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1681).

#### Authority of Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands To Enact Revenue Laws

See [section 1271 of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s1271), set out as a note under [section 931 of Title 26](/us/usc/t26/s931), Internal Revenue Code.
