---
title: "§ 8564. Report and imposition of sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions conducting significant transactions with persons responsible for or complicit in abuses toward dissidents on behalf of the Government of Iran"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8564"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8564"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–328, div. AA, title II, § 205](/us/pl/117/328/dAA/tII/s205), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5535](/us/stat/136/5535).)"
---
# § 8564. Report and imposition of sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions conducting significant transactions with persons responsible for or complicit in abuses toward dissidents on behalf of the Government of Iran

##### § 8564. Report and imposition of sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions conducting significant transactions with persons responsible for or complicit in abuses toward dissidents on behalf of the Government of Iran

(a) Report required Not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days after the Secretary of State submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report required by [section 8563(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8563/a), the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that identifies any foreign financial institution that knowingly conducts a significant transaction with a foreign person identified in the report submitted under [section 8563(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8563/a) on or after the date on which the foreign person is identified in that report.

(b) Imposition of sanctions The Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit the opening, or prohibit or impose strict conditions on the maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by a foreign financial institution identified under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 117–328, div. AA, title II, § 205](/us/pl/117/328/dAA/tII/s205), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5535](/us/stat/136/5535).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Masih Alinejad Harassment and Unlawful Targeting Act of 2022, also known as the Masih Alinejad HUNT Act of 2022, and not as part of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 which comprises this chapter.
