---
title: "§ 14911. Designation of central authority"
identifier: "USC-T42-S14911"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section14911"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–279, title I, § 101](/us/pl/106/279/tI/s101), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 827](/us/stat/114/827).)"
---
# § 14911. Designation of central authority

##### § 14911. Designation of central authority

(a) In general For purposes of the Convention and this chapter—

(1) the Department of State shall serve as the central authority of the United States; and

(2) the Secretary shall serve as the head of the central authority of the United States.

(b) Performance of central authority functions

(1) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Secretary shall be responsible for the performance of all central authority functions for the United States under the Convention and this chapter.

(2) All personnel of the Department of State performing core central authority functions in a professional capacity in the Office of Children’s Issues shall have a strong background in consular affairs, personal experience in international adoptions, or professional experience in international adoptions or child services.

(c) Authority to issue regulations Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Secretary may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out central authority functions on behalf of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 106–279, title I, § 101](/us/pl/106/279/tI/s101), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 827](/us/stat/114/827).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b)(1), and (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 106–279](/us/pl/106/279), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 825](/us/stat/114/825), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 14901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s14901) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 6, 2000, with transition rule, see section 505(a)(1), (b) of [Pub. L. 106–279](/us/pl/106/279), set out as an Effective Dates; Transition Rule note under [section 14901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s14901).
