---
title: "§ 7285. Practice and registration fees"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7285"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7285"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–687, div. A, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/100/687/dA/tIII/s301/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4119](/us/stat/102/4119), § 4085; renumbered § 7285, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); amended [Pub. L. 105–368, title V, § 512(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/368/tV/s512/a/1), Nov. 11, 1998, [112 Stat. 3341](/us/stat/112/3341); [Pub. L. 107–103, title VI, § 604(a)](/us/pl/107/103/tVI/s604/a)–(c)(1), Dec. 27, 2001, ["
---
# § 7285. Practice and registration fees

##### § 7285. Practice and registration fees

(a) The Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims may impose a reasonable periodic registration fee on persons admitted to practice before the Court. The frequency and amount of such fee shall be determined by the Court. The Court may also impose a reasonable registration fee on persons (other than judges of the Court) participating at judicial conferences convened pursuant to [section 7286 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7286) or in any other court-sponsored activity.

(b) Amounts received by the Court under subsection (a) of this section shall be available to the Court for the following purposes:

(1) Conducting investigations and proceedings, including employing independent counsel, to pursue disciplinary matters.

(2) Defraying the expenses of—

(A) judicial conferences convened pursuant to [section 7286 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7286); and

(B) other activities and programs of the Court that are intended to support and foster communication and relationships between the Court and persons practicing before the Court or the study, understanding, public commemoration, or improvement of veterans law or of the work of the Court.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–687, div. A, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/100/687/dA/tIII/s301/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4119](/us/stat/102/4119), § 4085; renumbered § 7285, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); amended [Pub. L. 105–368, title V, § 512(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/368/tV/s512/a/1), Nov. 11, 1998, [112 Stat. 3341](/us/stat/112/3341); [Pub. L. 107–103, title VI, § 604(a)](/us/pl/107/103/tVI/s604/a)–(c)(1), Dec. 27, 2001, [115 Stat. 999](/us/stat/115/999); [Pub. L. 110–389, title VI, § 605](/us/pl/110/389/tVI/s605), Oct. 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 4179](/us/stat/122/4179).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–389](/us/pl/110/389) inserted “reasonable” after “impose a” in two places and struck out “, except that such amount may not exceed $30 per year” after “by the Court”.

2001—[Pub. L. 107–103, § 604(c)(1)](/us/pl/107/103/s604/c/1), substituted “Practice and registration fees” for “Practice fee” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–103, § 604(a)](/us/pl/107/103/s604/a), inserted at end “The Court may also impose a registration fee on persons (other than judges of the Court) participating at judicial conferences convened pursuant to [section 7286 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7286) or in any other court-sponsored activity.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–103, § 604(b)](/us/pl/107/103/s604/b), substituted “for the following purposes:” and pars. (1) and (2) for “for the purposes of (1) employing independent counsel to pursue disciplinary matters, and (2) defraying administrative costs for the implementation of the standards of proficiency prescribed for practice before the Court.”

1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–368](/us/pl/105/368) substituted “Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims” for “Court of Veterans Appeals”.

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 4085 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4085) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–368](/us/pl/105/368) effective on first day of first month beginning more than 90 days after Nov. 11, 1998, see [section 513 of Pub. L. 105–368](/us/pl/105/368/s513), set out as a note under [section 7251 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7251).
