---
title: "§ 5451. Branching"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5451"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5451"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title III, § 341](/us/pl/111/203/tIII/s341), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1540](/us/stat/124/1540).)"
---
# § 5451. Branching

##### § 5451. Branching

(1) continue to operate any branch or agency that the savings association operated immediately before the savings association became a bank; and

(2) establish, acquire, and operate additional branches and agencies at any location within any State in which the savings association operated a branch immediately before the savings association became a bank, if the law of the State in which the branch is located, or is to be located, would permit establishment of the branch if the bank were a State bank chartered by such State.

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title III, § 341](/us/pl/111/203/tIII/s341), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1540](/us/stat/124/1540).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-21/ch967/s2), [64 Stat. 873](/us/stat/64/873), which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§ 1811 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1811 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1811) and Tables.

The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, referred to in text, is [act May 9, 1956, ch. 240](/us/act/1956-05-09/ch240), [70 Stat. 133](/us/stat/70/133), which is classified principally to chapter 17 (§ 1841 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1841 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1841) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s4), set out as a note under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301).
