---
title: "§ 5508. Account in House of Representatives for Employees’ Compensation Fund"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5508"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5508"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–55, title I, § 109](/us/pl/105/55/tI/s109), Oct. 7, 1997, [111 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/111/1184); [Pub. L. 113–76, div. I, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/113/76/dI/tI/s102/a), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 422](/us/stat/128/422).)"
---
# § 5508. Account in House of Representatives for Employees’ Compensation Fund

##### § 5508. Account in House of Representatives for Employees’ Compensation Fund

(a) Establishment There is hereby established an account in the House of Representatives for purposes of making payments of the House of Representatives to the Employees’ Compensation Fund under [section 8147 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8147), and for reimbursing the Secretary of Labor for any amounts paid with respect to unemployment compensation payments for former employees of the House.

(b) Payments made from account Notwithstanding any other provision of law, payments may be made from the account established under subsection (a) at any time after October 7, 1997, without regard to the fiscal year for which the obligation to make such payments is incurred.

(c) Category of allowances and expenses The account established under subsection (a) shall be treated as a category of allowances and expenses for purposes of [section 5507(a) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5507/a).

*([Pub. L. 105–55, title I, § 109](/us/pl/105/55/tI/s109), Oct. 7, 1997, [111 Stat. 1184](/us/stat/111/1184); [Pub. L. 113–76, div. I, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/113/76/dI/tI/s102/a), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 422](/us/stat/128/422).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 95d of this title](/us/usc/t2/s95d) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1998, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998.

#### Amendments

2014—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–76](/us/pl/113/76) substituted “, and for reimbursing the Secretary of Labor for any amounts paid with respect to unemployment compensation payments for former employees of the House.” for period at end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2014 Amendment

[Pub. L. 113–76, div. I, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/113/76/dI/tI/s102/b), Jan. 17, 2014, [128 Stat. 422](/us/stat/128/422), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2014 and each succeeding fiscal year.”
