---
title: "§ 215. Improvements and preservation of lands and buildings"
identifier: "USC-T16-S215"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section215"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Feb. 11, 1929, ch. 176, § 1](/us/act/1929-02-11/ch176/s1), [45 Stat. 1162](/us/stat/45/1162); Ex. Ord. No. 6166, § 2, June 10, 1933; Ex. Ord. No. 6228, § 1, July 28, 1933; [Mar. 2, 1934, ch. 38, § 1](/us/act/1934-03-02/ch38/s1), [48 Stat. 389](/us/stat/48/389); [Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 686](/us/act/1939-08-11/ch686), [53 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/53/1405); [Pub. L. 86–231](/us/pl/86/231), Sept. 8, 1959, [73 Stat. 466](/us/stat/73/466); [Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7114(b)](/us/pl/111/11/tVII/s7114/b), "
---
# § 215. Improvements and preservation of lands and buildings

##### § 215. Improvements and preservation of lands and buildings

For the purpose of protecting from disintegration and of improving, beautifying, and preserving the Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historical Park or Reservation established under sections 211 to 214 of this title, the National Park Service is authorized and directed to provide for (1) the improvement of such existing roadways, walks, and buildings in such park or reservation; and (2) the planting of such trees, plants, and shrubbery; the construction of such additional roadways, walks, and buildings, and of such fences, parking spaces, drainage structures, culverts, and bridges; and the making of such other improvements, as in its judgment may be necessary for the preservation, beautification, and protection from disintegration of such park or reservation, including the log cabin in which Abraham Lincoln was born and the memorial hall inclosing the same, and which may serve to render such park or reservation convenient for the appropriate use and enjoyment by the public.

*([Feb. 11, 1929, ch. 176, § 1](/us/act/1929-02-11/ch176/s1), [45 Stat. 1162](/us/stat/45/1162); Ex. Ord. No. 6166, § 2, June 10, 1933; Ex. Ord. No. 6228, § 1, July 28, 1933; [Mar. 2, 1934, ch. 38, § 1](/us/act/1934-03-02/ch38/s1), [48 Stat. 389](/us/stat/48/389); [Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 686](/us/act/1939-08-11/ch686), [53 Stat. 1405](/us/stat/53/1405); [Pub. L. 86–231](/us/pl/86/231), Sept. 8, 1959, [73 Stat. 466](/us/stat/73/466); [Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7114(b)](/us/pl/111/11/tVII/s7114/b), Mar. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 1202](/us/stat/123/1202).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historical Park” substituted for “Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historic Site” pursuant to [Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11).

“Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historic Site” substituted for “Abraham Lincoln National Historical Park” pursuant to [Pub. L. 86–231](/us/pl/86/231).

“Abraham Lincoln National Historical Park” substituted for “Abraham Lincoln National Park” pursuant to act Aug. 11, 1939.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

All national parks, national monuments, and national cemeteries consolidated in an office of National Parks, Buildings and Reservations in Department of the Interior, at head of which should be a Director of National Parks, Buildings and Reservations, and cemeteries and parks of War Department transferred to Department of the Interior by Executive Order No. 6166, as amended by Executive Order No. 6228, set out in a note under [section 901 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s901), Government Organization and Employees. This service designated the National Park Service in Department of the Interior by act Mar. 2, 1934.

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5.
