---
title: "§ 4705. Termination of section 4701(a); authority of United States Maritime Commission vested in Administrator of War Shipping Administration"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4705"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4705"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Mar. 24, 1943, ch. 26, § 5](/us/act/1943-03-24/ch26/s5), [57 Stat. 51](/us/stat/57/51).)"
---
# § 4705. Termination of section 4701(a); authority of United States Maritime Commission vested in Administrator of War Shipping Administration

##### § 4705. Termination of section 4701(a); authority of United States Maritime Commission vested in Administrator of War Shipping Administration

The provisions of [section 4701(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4701/a) shall remain in force until the termination of title 1 of the First War Powers Act, 1941. The termination of the provisions of such section shall not affect any act done or any right accruing or accrued, or any suit or proceeding had or commenced in any cause before such termination, but all rights and liabilities under law as modified by such provisions shall continue, and may be enforced in the same manner as if such provisions had not terminated. The authority conferred upon the United States Maritime Commission by any provision of this chapter shall be vested in and exercised by the Administrator of the War Shipping Administration 11 See Transfer of Functions note below. in conformity with the Executive order of February 7, 1942 (Numbered 9054; 7 F.R. 837), as heretofore or hereafter amended.

*([Mar. 24, 1943, ch. 26, § 5](/us/act/1943-03-24/ch26/s5), [57 Stat. 51](/us/stat/57/51).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Title 1 of the First War Powers Act, 1941, referred to in text, is title I of [act Dec. 18, 1941, ch. 593](/us/act/1941-12-18/ch593), [55 Stat. 838](/us/stat/55/838), which was classified to former sections 601 to 605 of the former Appendix to this title prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 8(a)](/us/pl/89/554/s8/a), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 651](/us/stat/80/651).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1295 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

War Shipping Administration terminated as of Sept. 1, 1946, and functions, powers, duties, etc., transferred to United States Maritime Commission for period Sept. 1, 1946, to Dec. 31, 1946, for purpose of liquidating Administration, by [act July 8, 1946, ch. 543, title II, § 202](/us/act/1946-07-08/ch543/tII/s202), [60 Stat. 501](/us/stat/60/501).

Maritime Administration transferred from Department of Commerce to Department of Transportation by Maritime Act of 1981, [Pub. L. 97–31](/us/pl/97/31), Aug. 6, 1981, [95 Stat. 151](/us/stat/95/151), which was repealed in part by [Pub. L. 109–304, § 19](/us/pl/109/304/s19), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1710](/us/stat/120/1710). See [section 109 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s109), Transportation.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

United States Maritime Commission abolished by Reorg. Plan No. 21, 1950, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3178, [64 Stat. 1273](/us/stat/64/1273), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, which transferred part of its functions and part of functions of its Chairman to Federal Maritime Board and Chairman thereof, that Board having been created by that Plan as an agency within Department of Commerce with an independent status in some respects, and transferred remainder of Commission’s functions and functions of its Chairman to Secretary of Commerce, with power vested in Secretary to authorize their performance by Maritime Administrator, the head of Maritime Administration, which likewise was established by the Plan in Department of Commerce with provision that Chairman of Federal Maritime Board should, ex officio, be that Administrator.

Federal Maritime Board, including offices of members of Board, abolished by section 304 of Reorg. Plan No. 7 of 1961, eff. Aug. 12, 1961, 26 F.R. 7315, [75 Stat. 843](/us/stat/75/843), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Functions of Board transferred either to Federal Maritime Commission or to Secretary of Commerce by sections 103 and 202 of Reorg. Plan No. 7 of 1961.
