---
title: "§ 4542. Housing Price Index"
identifier: "USC-T12-S4542"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section4542"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, § 1322](/us/pl/102/550/tXIII/s1322), as added [Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title I, § 1124(d)](/us/pl/110/289/dA/tI/s1124/d), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2693](/us/stat/122/2693).)"
---
# § 4542. Housing Price Index

##### § 4542. Housing Price Index

The Director shall establish and maintain a method of assessing the national average 1-family house price for use for adjusting the conforming loan limitations of the enterprises. In establishing such method, the Director shall take into consideration the monthly survey of all major lenders conducted by the Federal Housing Finance Agency to determine the national average 1-family house price, the House Price Index maintained by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development before the effective date of the Federal Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008, any appropriate house price indexes of the Bureau of the Census of the Department of Commerce, and any other indexes or measures that the Director considers appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, § 1322](/us/pl/102/550/tXIII/s1322), as added [Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title I, § 1124(d)](/us/pl/110/289/dA/tI/s1124/d), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2693](/us/stat/122/2693).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The effective date of the Federal Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008, referred to in text, probably means the date of enactment of div. A of [Pub. L. 110–289](/us/pl/110/289), which was approved July 30, 2008.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 4542, [Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, § 1322](/us/pl/102/550/tXIII/s1322), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3953](/us/stat/106/3953), related to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development’s prior approval authority for new programs, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title I, § 1121(2)](/us/pl/110/289/dA/tI/s1121/2), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2689](/us/stat/122/2689).
