---
title: "§ 2296e. Administrative authorities"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2296e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2296e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 499E, as added [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(2) [title V, § 596(b)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/2/tV/s596/b), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–125.)"
---
# § 2296e. Administrative authorities

##### § 2296e. Administrative authorities

(a) Assistance through governments and nongovernmental organizations Assistance under this part may be provided to governments or through nongovernmental organizations.

(b) Use of economic support funds Except as otherwise provided, any funds that have been allocated under part IV of subchapter II of this chapter for assistance for the independent states of the former Soviet Union may be used in accordance with the provisions of this part.

(c) Terms and conditions Assistance under this part shall be provided on such terms and conditions as the President may determine.

(d) Available authorities The authority in this part to provide assistance for the countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia is in addition to the authority to provide such assistance under the FREEDOM Support Act ([22 U.S.C. 5801](/us/usc/t22/s5801) et seq.) or any other Act, and the authorities applicable to the provision of assistance under part XI of this subchapter may be used to provide assistance under this part.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 499E, as added [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(2) [title V, § 596(b)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/2/tV/s596/b), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–125.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The FREEDOM Support Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is [Pub. L. 102–511](/us/pl/102/511), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3320](/us/stat/106/3320), also known as the Freedom for Russia and Emerging Eurasian Democracies and Open Markets Support Act of 1992. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5801 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s5801) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
