---
title: "§ 302706. Eligibility for inclusion on National Register"
identifier: "USC-T54-S302706"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section302706"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3201](/us/stat/128/3201).)"
---
# § 302706. Eligibility for inclusion on National Register

##### § 302706. Eligibility for inclusion on National Register

(a) In General.— Property of traditional religious and cultural importance to an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization may be determined to be eligible for inclusion on the National Register.

(b) Consultation.— In carrying out its responsibilities under [section 306108 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s306108), a Federal agency shall consult with any Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization that attaches religious and cultural significance to property described in subsection (a).

(c) Hawaii.— In carrying out responsibilities under [section 302303 of this title](/us/usc/t54/s302303), the State Historic Preservation Officer for Hawaii shall—

(1) consult with Native Hawaiian organizations in assessing the cultural significance of any property in determining whether to nominate the property to the National Register;

(2) consult with Native Hawaiian organizations in developing the cultural component of a preservation program or plan for the property; and

(3) enter into a memorandum of understanding or agreement with Native Hawaiian organizations for the assessment of the cultural significance of a property in determining whether to nominate the property to the National Register and to carry out the cultural component of the preservation program or plan.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3201](/us/stat/128/3201).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 302706 | 16 U.S.C. 470a(d)(6). | Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(d)(6), as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4006(a)(2), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4757. |
