---
title: "§ 276c–5. Authorization for United States participation in the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S276c–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section276c–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXV, § 6501](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXV/s6501), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2421](/us/stat/135/2421).)"
---
# § 276c–5. Authorization for United States participation in the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations

##### § 276c–5. Authorization for United States participation in the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations

(a) In general The United States is authorized to participate in the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (referred to in this section as “CEPI”).

(b) Investors Council and Board of Directors

(1) Initial designation The President shall designate an employee of the United States Agency for International Development to serve on the Investors Council and, if nominated, on the Board of Directors of CEPI, as a representative of the United States during the period beginning on the date of such designation and ending on September 30, 2022.

(2) Ongoing designations The President may designate an employee of the relevant Federal department or agency with fiduciary responsibility for United States contributions to CEPI to serve on the Investors Council and, if nominated, on the Board of Directors of CEPI, as a representative of the United States.

(3) Qualifications Any employee designated pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) shall have demonstrated knowledge and experience in the field of development and, if designated from a Federal department or agency with primary fiduciary responsibility for United States contributions pursuant to paragraph (2), in the field of public health, epidemiology, or medicine.

(4) Coordination In carrying out the responsibilities under this section, any employee designated pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) shall coordinate with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promote alignment, as appropriate, between CEPI and the strategic objectives and activities of the Secretary of Health and Human Services with respect to the research, development, and procurement of medical countermeasures, consistent with titles III and XXVIII of the Public Health Service Act ([42 U.S.C. 241](/us/usc/t42/s241) et seq. and 300hh et seq.).

(c) Consultation Not later than 60 days after December 27, 2021, the employee designated pursuant to subsection (b)(1) shall consult with the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives regarding—

(1) the manner and extent to which the United States plans to participate in CEPI, including through the governance of CEPI;

(2) any planned financial contributions from the United States to CEPI; and

(3) how participation in CEPI is expected to support—

(A) the applicable revision of the National Biodefense Strategy required under [section 104 of title 6](/us/usc/t6/s104); and

(B) any other relevant programs relating to global health security and biodefense.

*([Pub. L. 117–81, div. F, title LXV, § 6501](/us/pl/117/81/dF/tLXV/s6501), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2421](/us/stat/135/2421).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Public Health Service Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(4), is [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), [58 Stat. 682](/us/stat/58/682). Titles III and XXVIII of the Act are classified generally to subchapters II (§ 241 et seq.) and XXVI (§ 300hh et seq.), respectively, of chapter 6A of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 201 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority Under Section 6501(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022

Memorandum of President of the United States, Jan. 17, 2023, 88 F.R. 3909, which delegate to the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development the authority under subsec. (b)(2) of this section, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 14236, § 2(*l*), Mar. 14, 2025, 90 F.R. 13038.
