---
title: "§ 21134. Effective date; transition"
identifier: "USC-T52-S21134"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section21134"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–252, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/107/252/tVIII/s804), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/116/1726).)"
---
# § 21134. Effective date; transition

##### § 21134. Effective date; transition

(a) Effective date This subchapter and the amendments made by this subchapter shall take effect upon the appointment of all members of the Election Assistance Commission under [section 20923 of this title](/us/usc/t52/s20923).

(b) Transition With the consent of the entity involved, the Election Assistance Commission is authorized to utilize the services of such officers, employees, and other personnel of the entities from which functions have been transferred to the Election Assistance Commission under this subchapter or the amendments made by this subchapter for such period of time as may reasonably be needed to facilitate the orderly transfer of such functions.

(c) No effect on authorities of Office of Election Administration prior to appointment of members of Commission During the period which begins on October 29, 2002, and ends on the effective date described in subsection (a), the Office of Election Administration of the Federal Election Commission shall continue to have the authority to carry out any of the functions (including the development of voluntary standards for voting systems and procedures for the certification of voting systems) which it has the authority to carry out as of October 29, 2002.

*([Pub. L. 107–252, title VIII, § 804](/us/pl/107/252/tVIII/s804), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/116/1726).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this title”, meaning title VIII of [Pub. L. 107–252](/us/pl/107/252), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/116/1725). For complete classification of title VIII to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15534 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15534), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
