---
title: "§ 12253. Report"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12253"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12253"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31913](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31913), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1895](/us/stat/108/1895).)"
---
# § 12253. Report

##### § 12253. Report

(a) In general A State that receives a grant under this subpart 11 See References in Text note below. shall, not later than 90 days after the 1-year period in which the grant is required to be expended, submit a report to the Attorney General regarding the family unity demonstration project for which the grant was expended.

(b) Contents A report under subsection (a) shall—

(1) state the number of prisoners who submitted applications to participate in the project and the number of prisoners who were placed in community correctional facilities;

(2) state, with respect to prisoners placed in the project, the number of prisoners who are returned to that jurisdiction and custody and the reasons for such return;

(3) describe the nature and scope of educational and training activities provided to prisoners participating in the project;

(4) state the number, and describe the scope of, contracts made with public and nonprofit private community-based organizations to carry out such project; and

(5) evaluate the effectiveness of the project in accomplishing the purposes described in [section 12241 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12241).

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31913](/us/pl/103/322/tIII/s31913), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1895](/us/stat/108/1895).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subpart, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this title” and was translated as reading “this chapter”, meaning chapter 1 of subtitle S of title III of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13893 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13893), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
