---
title: "§ 1103. National Transportation Security Center of Excellence"
identifier: "USC-T6-S1103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title6-section1103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "6"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XII, § 1205](/us/pl/110/53/tXII/s1205), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 387](/us/stat/121/387).)"
---
# § 1103. National Transportation Security Center of Excellence

##### § 1103. National Transportation Security Center of Excellence

(a) Establishment The Secretary shall establish a National Transportation Security Center of Excellence to conduct research and education activities, and to develop or provide professional security training, including the training of transportation employees and transportation professionals.

(b) Designation The Secretary shall select one of the institutions identified in subsection (c) as the lead institution responsible for coordinating the National Transportation Security Center of Excellence.

(c) Member institutions

(1) Consortium The institution of higher education selected under subsection (b) shall execute agreements with the other institutions of higher education identified in this subsection and other institutions designated by the Secretary to develop a consortium to assist in accomplishing the goals of the Center.

(2) Members The National Transportation Security Center of Excellence shall consist of—

(A) Texas Southern University in Houston, Texas;

(B) the National Transit Institute at Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey;

(C) Tougaloo College;

(D) the Connecticut Transportation Institute at the University of Connecticut;

(E) the Homeland Security Management Institute, Long Island University;

(F) the Mack-Blackwell National Rural Transportation Study Center at the University of Arkansas; and

(G) any additional institutions or facilities designated by the Secretary.

(3) Certain inclusions To the extent practicable, the Secretary shall ensure that an appropriate number of any additional consortium colleges or universities designated by the Secretary under this subsection are Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, and Indian Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—

(1) $18,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;

(2) $18,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;

(3) $18,000,000 for fiscal year 2010; and

(4) $18,000,000 for fiscal year 2011.

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XII, § 1205](/us/pl/110/53/tXII/s1205), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 387](/us/stat/121/387).)*
