---
title: "§ 2532. Ownership during testing"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2532"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2532"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–577, title III, § 102](/us/pl/91/577/tIII/s102), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1554](/us/stat/84/1554); [Pub. L. 103–349, § 8(d)(2)](/us/pl/103/349/s8/d/2), Oct. 6, 1994, [108 Stat. 3141](/us/stat/108/3141).)"
---
# § 2532. Ownership during testing

##### § 2532. Ownership during testing

An owner who, with notice that release is for testing only, releases possession of seed or other sexually reproducible or tuber propagable plant material for testing retains ownership with respect thereto; and any diversion from authorized testing, or any unauthorized retention, of such material by anyone who has knowledge that it is under such notice, or who is chargeable with notice, is prohibited, and violates the property rights of the owner. Anyone receiving the material tagged or labeled with the notice is chargeable with the notice. The owner is entitled to remedy and redress in a civil action hereunder. No remedy available by State or local law is hereby excluded. No such notice shall be used, or if used be effective, when the owner has made identical sexually reproducible or tuber propagable plant material available to the public, as by sale thereof.

*([Pub. L. 91–577, title III, § 102](/us/pl/91/577/tIII/s102), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1554](/us/stat/84/1554); [Pub. L. 103–349, § 8(d)(2)](/us/pl/103/349/s8/d/2), Oct. 6, 1994, [108 Stat. 3141](/us/stat/108/3141).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–349](/us/pl/103/349) inserted “or tuber propagable” after “sexually reproducible” in two places.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–349](/us/pl/103/349) effective 180 days after Oct. 6, 1994, see [section 15 of Pub. L. 103–349](/us/pl/103/349/s15), set out as a note under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2401).
