---
title: "§ 1314. Public advisory groups"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1314"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1314"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XI, § 1114, as added [Pub. L. 87–543, title I, § 121](/us/pl/87/543/tI/s121), July 25, 1962, [76 Stat. 190](/us/stat/76/190); amended [Pub. L. 90–248, title IV, § 403(e)](/us/pl/90/248/tIV/s403/e), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 932](/us/stat/81/932); [Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VI, § 2663(e)(4)](/us/pl/98/369/dB/tVI/s2663/e/4), (j)(2)(D)(iv), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/98/1168), 1170; [Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(6) [title V, § 522"
---
# § 1314. Public advisory groups

##### § 1314. Public advisory groups

(a) Advisory Council on Public Welfare; appointment and functions of initial Council The Secretary shall, during 1964, appoint an Advisory Council on Public Welfare for the purpose of reviewing the administration of the public assistance and child welfare services programs for which funds are appropriated pursuant to this chapter and making recommendations for improvement of such administration, and reviewing the status of and making recommendations with respect to the public assistance programs for which funds are so appropriated, especially in relation to the old-age, survivors, and disability insurance program, with respect to the fiscal capacities of the States and the Federal Government, and with respect to any other matters bearing on the amount and proportion of the Federal and State shares in the public assistance and child welfare services programs.

(b) Membership and representation of interests on initial Council The Council shall be appointed by the Secretary without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service and shall consist of twelve persons who shall, to the extent possible, be representatives of employers and employees in equal numbers, representatives of State or Federal agencies concerned with the administration or financing of the public assistance and child welfare services programs, representatives of nonprofit private organizations concerned with social welfare programs, other persons with special knowledge, experience, or qualifications with respect to such programs, and members of the public.

(c) Technical and other assistance for initial Council; availability of data The Council is authorized to engage such technical assistance as may be required to carry out its functions, and the Secretary shall, in addition, make available to the Council such secretarial, clerical, and other assistance and such pertinent data prepared by the Department of Health and Human Services as it may require to carry out such functions.

(d) Termination of initial Council’s existence on submission of report The Council shall make a report of its findings and recommendations (including recommendations for changes in the provisions of this chapter) to the Secretary, such report to be submitted not later than July 1, 1966, after which date such Council shall cease to exist.

(e) Succeeding Councils; appointment; functions; membership; representation of interests; assistance and data; termination The Secretary shall also from time to time thereafter appoint an Advisory Council on Public Welfare, with the same functions and constituted in the same manner as prescribed for the Advisory Council in the preceding subsections of this section. Each Council so appointed shall report its findings and recommendations, as prescribed in subsection (d), not later than July 1 of the second year after the year in which it is appointed, after which date such Council shall cease to exist.

(f) Advisory committees; functions; reports by Secretary The Secretary may also appoint, without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, such advisory committees as he may deem advisable to advise and consult with him in carrying out any of his functions under this chapter. The Secretary shall report to the Congress annually on the number of such committees and on the membership and activities of each such committee.

(g) Compensation and travel expenses Members of the Council or of any advisory committee appointed under this section who are not regular full-time employees of the United States shall, while serving on business of the Council or any such committee, be entitled to receive compensation at rates fixed by the Secretary, but not exceeding $75 per day, including travel time; and while so serving away from their homes or regular places of business, they may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by [section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703) for persons in Government service employed intermittently.

(h) Exemption from conflict of interest laws of members of Council or advisory committees; exceptions

(1) Any member of the Council or any advisory committee appointed under this chapter, who is not a regular full-time employee of the United States, is hereby exempted, with respect to such appointment, from the operation of sections 203, 205, and 209 of title 18, except as otherwise specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection.

(2) The exemption granted by paragraph (1) shall not extend—

(A) to the receipt or payment of salary in connection with the appointee’s Government service from any source other than the employer of the appointee at the time of his appointment, or

(B) during the period of such appointment, to the prosecution or participation in the prosecution, by any person so appointed, of any claim against the Government involving any matter with which such person, during such period, is or was directly connected by reason of such appointment.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XI, § 1114, as added [Pub. L. 87–543, title I, § 121](/us/pl/87/543/tI/s121), July 25, 1962, [76 Stat. 190](/us/stat/76/190); amended [Pub. L. 90–248, title IV, § 403(e)](/us/pl/90/248/tIV/s403/e), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 932](/us/stat/81/932); [Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VI, § 2663(e)(4)](/us/pl/98/369/dB/tVI/s2663/e/4), (j)(2)(D)(iv), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/98/1168), 1170; [Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(6) [title V, § 522(c)]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/6/tV/s522/c), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–546; [Pub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 948(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/108/173/tIX/s948/a/1/A), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2425](/us/stat/117/2425).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2003—Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 108–173](/us/pl/108/173) redesignated and transferred subsec. (i) of this section to subsec. (j) of [section 1395y of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1395y).

2000—Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 106–554](/us/pl/106/554) added subsec. (i).

1984—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 98–369, § 2663(j)(2)(D)(iv)](/us/pl/98/369/s2663/j/2/D/iv), substituted “Health and Human Services” for “Health, Education, and Welfare”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 98–369, § 2663(e)(4)(A)](/us/pl/98/369/s2663/e/4/A), made technical correction of typographical error resulting in no change in text.

Subsec. (h)(1). [Pub. L. 98–369, § 2663(e)(4)(B)](/us/pl/98/369/s2663/e/4/B), substituted “sections 203, 205, and 209 of title 18” for “sections 281, 283, and 1914 of title 18 and section 190 of the Revised Statutes ([5 U.S.C. 99](/us/usc/t5/s99))”.

1968—Subsecs. (b), (f). [Pub. L. 90–248, § 403(e)(1)](/us/pl/90/248/s403/e/1), (2), substituted “provisions of title 5, governing appointments in the competitive service” for “civil-service laws”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 90–248, § 403(e)(3)](/us/pl/90/248/s403/e/3), substituted “[section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703)” for “section 5 of the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946 ([5 U.S.C. 73b–2](/us/usc/t5/s73b–2))”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 948(e)](/us/pl/108/173/tIX/s948/e), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2426](/us/stat/117/2426), provided that: “Except as otherwise provided, the amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 1320c–3, 1395w–22, 1395y, and 1395ff of this title] shall be effective as if included in the enactment of BIPA [the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000, as enacted by [section 1(a)(6) of Public Law 106–554](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/6)].”

#### Effective Date of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(6) [title V, § 522(d)]](/us/pl/106/554/s1/a/6/tV/s522/d), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2763](/us/stat/114/2763), 2763A–547, provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section and sections 1395y and 1395ff of this title] shall apply with respect to—“(1) a review of any national or local coverage determination filed, “(2) a request to make such a determination made, and “(3) a national coverage determination made, on or after October 1, 2001.”

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369) effective July 18, 1984, but not to be construed as changing or affecting any right, liability, status, or interpretation which existed (under the provisions of law involved) before that date, see [section 2664(b) of Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369/s2664/b), set out as a note under [section 401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s401).

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
