---
title: "§ 2156a. Regulations establishing levels of physical security to protect facilities and material"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2156a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2156a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–242, title III, § 304(d)](/us/pl/95/242/tIII/s304/d), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 135](/us/stat/92/135); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G, title XII, § 1225(e)(3)](/us/pl/105/277/dG/tXII/s1225/e/3), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–775](/us/stat/112/2681-775).)"
---
# § 2156a. Regulations establishing levels of physical security to protect facilities and material

##### § 2156a. Regulations establishing levels of physical security to protect facilities and material

Within sixty days of March 10, 1978, the Commission shall, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary of Defense, promulgate (and may from time to time amend) regulations establishing the levels of physical security which in its judgement are no less strict than those established by any international guidelines to which the United States subscribes and which in its judgment will provide adequate protection for facilities and material referred to in paragraph (3) of [section 2156 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2156) taking into consideration variations in risks to security as appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 95–242, title III, § 304(d)](/us/pl/95/242/tIII/s304/d), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 135](/us/stat/92/135); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G, title XII, § 1225(e)(3)](/us/pl/105/277/dG/tXII/s1225/e/3), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–775](/us/stat/112/2681-775).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Commission, referred to in text, is defined as meaning the Nuclear Regulatory Commission by section 4(a)(1) of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, [Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242), which is classified to [section 3203(a)(1) of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3203/a/1), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1998—[Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) substituted “and the Secretary of Defense,” for “the Secretary of Defense, and the Director,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) effective on earlier of Apr. 1, 1999, or date of abolition of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency pursuant to reorganization plan described in [section 6601 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s6601), Foreign Relations and Intercourse, see [section 1201 of Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277/s1201), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6511 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s6511).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 10, 1978, except as otherwise provided and regardless of any requirements for the promulgation of implementing regulations, see [section 603(c) of Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242/s603/c), set out as a note under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Performance of Functions Pending Development of Procedures

The performance of functions under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, [Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 120](/us/stat/92/120), not to be delayed pending development of procedures even though as many as 120 days [after Mar. 10, 1978] are allowed for establishing those procedures, see section 5(b) of Ex. Ord. No. 12058, May 11, 1978, 43 F.R. 20947, set out under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
