---
title: "§ 9687. Other terminations"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9687"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9687"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title VI, § 1467](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tVI/s1467), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3515](/us/stat/132/3515).)"
---
# § 9687. Other terminations

##### § 9687. Other terminations

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, whenever all the functions vested by law in any agency have been transferred pursuant to this subchapter, each position and office the incumbent of which was authorized to receive compensation at the rates prescribed for an office or position at level II, III, IV, or V of the Executive Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5 shall terminate.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title VI, § 1467](/us/pl/115/254/dF/tVI/s1467), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3515](/us/stat/132/3515).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this division”, meaning division F of [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3485](/us/stat/132/3485), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of division F to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9601 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9601) and Tables.

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title VI (§§ 1461–1470) of div. F of [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3510](/us/stat/132/3510), which is classified principally to this subchapter and which repealed title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 ([22 U.S.C. 2191](/us/usc/t22/s2191) et seq.), other than subsections (g), (*l*), (m), and (n) of section 237 thereof ([22 U.S.C. 2197(g)](/us/usc/t22/s2197/g), (*l*), (m), (n)), among other amendments. For complete classification of title VI to the Code, see Tables.

Levels II, III, IV, and V of the Executive Schedule, referred to in text, are set out in sections 5313, 5314, 5315, and 5316, respectively, of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
