---
title: "§ 4716. Report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4716"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4716"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 816](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s816), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 95](/us/stat/134/95).)"
---
# § 4716. Report to Congress

##### § 4716. Report to Congress

(a) In general The Trade Representative, in consultation with the head of any Federal agency described in this part, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the implementation of this part, including—

(1) a description of efforts of the USMCA countries to implement their environmental obligations; and

(2) a description of additional efforts to be taken with respect to USMCA countries that are failing to implement their environmental obligations.

(b) Timing of report The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted—

(1) not later than 1 year after the date on which the USMCA enters into force;

(2) annually for each of the next 4 years; and

(3) biennially thereafter.

(c) Additional matters to be included in the fifth annual report The report required by subsection (a) that is submitted in the fifth year after the USMCA enters into force shall also include the following:

(1) The updated assessment required by [section 4712(d) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4712/d).

(2) A comprehensive determination regarding USMCA countries’ implementation of their environmental obligations.

(3) An explanation of how compliance with environmental obligations will be taken into consideration during the “joint review” conducted pursuant to article 34.7.2 of the USMCA on the sixth anniversary of the entry into force of the USMCA.

*([Pub. L. 116–113, title VIII, § 816](/us/pl/116/113/tVIII/s816), Jan. 29, 2020, [134 Stat. 95](/us/stat/134/95).)*
