---
title: "§ 1525. Special studies; special compilations, lists, bulletins, or reports; clearinghouse for technical information; transcripts or copies; cost payments for special work; joint projects: cost apportionment, waiver"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1525"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1525"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–412, § 1](/us/pl/91/412/s1), Sept. 25, 1970, [84 Stat. 864](/us/stat/84/864); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. July 1, 1970, 35 F.R. 7959, [84 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/84/2085).)"
---
# § 1525. Special studies; special compilations, lists, bulletins, or reports; clearinghouse for technical information; transcripts or copies; cost payments for special work; joint projects: cost apportionment, waiver

##### § 1525. Special studies; special compilations, lists, bulletins, or reports; clearinghouse for technical information; transcripts or copies; cost payments for special work; joint projects: cost apportionment, waiver

The Secretary of Commerce is authorized, upon the request of any person, firm, organization, or others, public or private, to make special studies on matters within the authority of the Department of Commerce; to prepare from its records special compilations, lists, bulletins, or reports; to perform the functions authorized by [section 1152 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1152); and to furnish transcripts or copies of its studies, compilations, and other records; upon the payment of the actual or estimated cost of such special work.

In the case of nonprofit organizations, research organizations, or public organizations or agencies, the Secretary may engage in joint projects, or perform services, on matters of mutual interest, the cost of which shall be apportioned equitably, as determined by the Secretary, who may, however, waive payment of any portion of such costs by others, when authorized to do so under regulations approved by the Office of Management and Budget.

*([Pub. L. 91–412, § 1](/us/pl/91/412/s1), Sept. 25, 1970, [84 Stat. 864](/us/stat/84/864); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. July 1, 1970, 35 F.R. 7959, [84 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/84/2085).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions vested by law (including reorganization plan) in Bureau of the Budget or Director of Bureau of the Budget transferred to President by section 101 of Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1970, eff. July 1, 1970, 35 F.R. 7959, [84 Stat. 2085](/us/stat/84/2085), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Section 102 of Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1970 redesignated Bureau of the Budget as Office of Management and Budget.
