---
title: "§ 17904. Implementation powers and limitations"
identifier: "USC-T40-S17904"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section17904"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1290](/us/stat/116/1290).)"
---
# § 17904. Implementation powers and limitations

##### § 17904. Implementation powers and limitations

(a) Accommodation of Needs for Electric Energy.— This chapter does not require or authorize a federal agency to construct a new electric generating facility or related facility, to modify an existing facility, or to employ reserve or standby equipment to accommodate the needs of a non-federal person for electric energy.

(b) Availability of Revenue From Sales.— Revenue received by a federal agency pursuant to [section 17902 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s17902) from the sale of electric energy generated from a facility of that agency is available to the agency without fiscal year limitation to purchase fuel and for operation, maintenance, and other costs associated with that facility.

(c) Exercise of Authorities.— The authority under this chapter shall be exercised for those periods and pursuant to terms and conditions that the head of the federal agency concerned decides are necessary consistent with—

(1) this chapter; and

(2) responsibilities of the head of the federal agency under other law.

(d) Negotiation and Execution of Contracts and Other Agreements.— A contract or other agreement executed under this chapter shall be negotiated and executed by the head of the federal agency selling or purchasing electric energy under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1290](/us/stat/116/1290).)*

In subsection (a), the words “federal agency” are substituted for “department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government” because of the definition of “federal agency” in [section 17901 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s17901).

In subsection (d), the words “notwithstanding any other provision of law” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 17904 | 40:795c. | Pub. L. 96–571, § 5, Dec. 22, 1980, 94 Stat. 3342. |
