---
title: "§ 4538. Reimbursement of residential telecommunications expenses for House Members, officers, and employees"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4538"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4538"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–275, title I, § 109](/us/pl/105/275/tI/s109), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2439](/us/stat/112/2439).)"
---
# § 4538. Reimbursement of residential telecommunications expenses for House Members, officers, and employees

##### § 4538. Reimbursement of residential telecommunications expenses for House Members, officers, and employees

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, official resources may be used during a fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 1999), in accordance with regulations of the Committee on House Oversight, to reimburse a Member, officer, or employee of the House of Representatives for the ordinary and necessary expenses related to the official use of telecommunications lines in the residence of the Member, officer, or employee.

(b) The Committee on House Oversight shall promulgate such regulations as are necessary to implement this section.

*([Pub. L. 105–275, title I, § 109](/us/pl/105/275/tI/s109), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2439](/us/stat/112/2439).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 127b of this title](/us/usc/t2/s127b) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1999, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.
