---
title: "§ 1392. Local laws continued; courts"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1392"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1392"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1917, ch. 171, § 2](/us/act/1917-03-03/ch171/s2), [39 Stat. 1132](/us/stat/39/1132); [June 25, 1948, ch. 646, § 39](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646/s39), [62 Stat. 992](/us/stat/62/992).)"
---
# § 1392. Local laws continued; courts

##### § 1392. Local laws continued; courts

Until Congress shall otherwise provide, insofar as compatible with the changed sovereignty and not in conflict with the provisions of this section and sections 1391 11 See References in Text note below. and 1394 to 1396 of this title, the laws regulating elections and the electoral franchise as set forth in the code of laws published at Amalienborg the 6th day of April, 1906, and the other local laws, in force and effect in said islands on the 17th day of January, 1917, shall remain in force and effect in said islands, and the same shall be administered by the civil officials and through the local judicial tribunals established in said islands, respectively; and the orders, judgments, and decrees of said judicial tribunals shall be duly enforced. With the approval of the President, or under such rules and regulations as the President may prescribe, any of said laws may be repealed, altered, or amended by the colonial council having jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the judicial tribunals of said islands shall extend to all judicial proceedings and controversies in said islands to which the United States or any citizen thereof may be a party.

*([Mar. 3, 1917, ch. 171, § 2](/us/act/1917-03-03/ch171/s2), [39 Stat. 1132](/us/stat/39/1132); [June 25, 1948, ch. 646, § 39](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646/s39), [62 Stat. 992](/us/stat/62/992).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1391 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1391), referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 8(a)](/us/pl/89/554/s8/a), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 643](/us/stat/80/643).

#### Amendments

1948—Act June 25, 1948, repealed last sentence relating to appeals. See [section 1294 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1294), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1948 Amendment

Amendment by act June 25, 1948, effective Sept. 1, 1948, see section 38 of that act set out as an Effective Date note preceding [section 1 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
