---
title: "§ 1351. Declaration of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1351"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1351"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–182, § 1](/us/pl/89/182/s1), Sept. 14, 1965, [79 Stat. 679](/us/stat/79/679).)"
---
# § 1351. Declaration of purpose

##### § 1351. Declaration of purpose

Congress finds that wider diffusion and more effective application of science and technology in business, commerce, and industry are essential to the growth of the economy, to higher levels of employment, and to the competitive position of United States products in world markets. The Congress also finds that the benefits of federally financed research, as well as other research, must be placed more effectively in the hands of American business, commerce, and industrial establishments. The Congress further finds that the several States through cooperation with universities, communities, and industries can contribute significantly to these purposes by providing technical services designed to encourage a more effective application of science and technology to both new and established business, commerce, and industrial establishments. The Congress, therefore, declares that the purpose of this chapter is to provide a national program of incentives and support for the several States individually and in cooperation with each other in their establishing and maintaining State and interstate technical service programs designed to achieve these ends.

*([Pub. L. 89–182, § 1](/us/pl/89/182/s1), Sept. 14, 1965, [79 Stat. 679](/us/stat/79/679).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 89–182, § 19](/us/pl/89/182/s19), Sept. 14, 1965, [79 Stat. 684](/us/stat/79/684), provided that: “This Act [this chapter] may be cited as the ‘State Technical Services Act of 1965’.”
