---
title: "§ 3713. Authority for urgent threat reduction activities under Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XIII, § 1323](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tXIII/s1323), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3598](/us/stat/128/3598); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XIII, § 1302(b)(3)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXIII/s1302/b/3), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2566](/us/stat/130/2566).)"
---
# § 3713. Authority for urgent threat reduction activities under Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program

##### § 3713. Authority for urgent threat reduction activities under Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program

(a) Limitation on use of funds for urgent threat reduction activities Subject to subsections (b) and (c), not more than 15 percent of the total amount of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for any fiscal year may be obligated or expended, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for covered activities.

(b) Secretary of Defense determination and notice for urgent threat reduction activities in governed areas With respect to an area not covered by subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense may obligate or expend funds pursuant to subsection (a) for covered activities if—

(1) the Secretary determines, in writing, that—

(A) a threat arising in such area from the proliferation of chemical, nuclear, or biological weapons or weapons-related materials, technologies, or expertise must be addressed urgently;

(B) certain provisions of law would unnecessarily impede the ability of the Secretary to carry out such covered activities to address such threat; and

(C) it is necessary to obligate or expend such funds to carry out such covered activities;

(2) the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy concur with such determination; and

(3) not later than seven days before the date on which the Secretary of Defense first obligates such funds, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, submits to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate—

(A) the determination under paragraph (1);

(B) a description of the covered activities to be carried out using such funds;

(C) the expected time frame for such activities; and

(D) the expected cost of such activities.

(c) Presidential determination and notice for urgent threat reduction activities in ungoverned areas With respect to an ungoverned area or an area that is not controlled by an effective governmental authority, as determined by the Secretary of State, the President may obligate or expend funds pursuant to subsection (a) for covered activities if—

(1) the President determines, in writing, that—

(A) a threat arising in such an area from the proliferation of chemical, nuclear, or biological weapons or weapons-related materials, technologies, or expertise must be addressed urgently; and

(B) it is necessary to obligate or expend such funds to carry out such covered activities to address such threat; and

(2) at the time at which the President first obligates such funds, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, submits to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate—

(A) the determination under paragraph (1);

(B) a description of the covered activities to be carried out using such funds;

(C) the expected time frame for such activities; and

(D) the expected cost of such activities.

(d) Covered activity defined In this section, the term “covered activity” means an activity under the Program to address a threat arising from the proliferation of chemical, nuclear, or biological weapons or weapons-related materials, technologies, or expertise.

*([Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XIII, § 1323](/us/pl/113/291/dA/tXIII/s1323), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3598](/us/stat/128/3598); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XIII, § 1302(b)(3)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXIII/s1302/b/3), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2566](/us/stat/130/2566).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) substituted “not later than seven days before the date on which” for “at the time at which” in introductory provisions.
