---
title: "§ 2283. Membership on advisory committees"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2283"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2283"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–113, title XVIII, § 1803](/us/pl/95/113/tXVIII/s1803), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 1041](/us/stat/91/1041); [Pub. L. 97–98, title XI, § 1116(a)](/us/pl/97/98/tXI/s1116/a), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/95/1270).)"
---
# § 2283. Membership on advisory committees

##### § 2283. Membership on advisory committees

(a) Simultaneous service No person other than an officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture may serve simultaneously on more than one advisory committee, unless authorized by the Secretary.

(b) Service by more than one officer or employee of corporation or non-Federal entity Not more than one officer or employee of any corporation or other non-Federal entity, including all subsidiaries and affiliates thereof, may serve on the same advisory committee at any one time, unless authorized by the Secretary.

(c) Maximum length No person other than an officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture may serve for more than six consecutive years on an advisory committee, unless authorized by the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 95–113, title XVIII, § 1803](/us/pl/95/113/tXVIII/s1803), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 1041](/us/stat/91/1041); [Pub. L. 97–98, title XI, § 1116(a)](/us/pl/97/98/tXI/s1116/a), Dec. 22, 1981, [95 Stat. 1270](/us/stat/95/1270).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1981—[Pub. L. 97–98](/us/pl/97/98) substituted provision relating to membership on advisory committees for provision relating to establishment of advisory committees.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–98](/us/pl/97/98) effective Dec. 22, 1981, see [section 1801 of Pub. L. 97–98](/us/pl/97/98/s1801), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 4301 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4301).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1977, see [section 1901 of Pub. L. 95–113](/us/pl/95/113/s1901), set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under [section 1307 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1307).
