---
title: "§ 1616d. Advanced training and research"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1616d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1616d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 111](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s111), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title I, § 108](/us/pl/100/713/tI/s108), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4795](/us/stat/102/4795); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 108](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s108), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4538](/us/stat/106/4538); [Pub. L. 103–435, § 16(a)](/us/pl/103/435/s16/a), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4573](/us/stat/108/4573).)"
---
# § 1616d. Advanced training and research

##### § 1616d. Advanced training and research

(a) Establishment of program The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall establish a program to enable health professionals to pursue advanced training or research in areas of study for which the Secretary determines a need exists. In selecting participants for a program established under this subsection, the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall give priority to applicants who are employed by the Indian Health Service, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations, at the time of the submission of the applications.

(b) Obligated service An individual who participates in a program under subsection (a), where the educational costs are borne by the Service, shall incur an obligation to serve in an Indian health program (as defined in [section 1616a(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616a/a/2)) for a period of obligated service equal to at least the period of time during which the individual participates in such program. In the event that the individual fails to complete such obligated service, the individual shall be liable to the United States for the period of service remaining. In such event, with respect to individuals entering the program after October 29, 1992, the United States shall be entitled to recover from such individual an amount to be determined in accordance with the formula specified in subsection (*l*) of [section 1616a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616a) in the manner provided for in such subsection.

(c) Eligibility Health professionals from Indian tribes and tribal and Indian organizations under the authority of the Indian Self-Determination Act [[25 U.S.C. 5321](/us/usc/t25/s5321) et seq.] shall be given an equal opportunity to participate in the program under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 111](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s111), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title I, § 108](/us/pl/100/713/tI/s108), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4795](/us/stat/102/4795); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 108](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s108), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4538](/us/stat/106/4538); [Pub. L. 103–435, § 16(a)](/us/pl/103/435/s16/a), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4573](/us/stat/108/4573).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is title I of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/88/2206), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 5321 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–435, § 16(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/435/s16/a/1), struck out “who have worked in an Indian health program (as defined in [section 1616a(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616a/a/2)) for a substantial period of time” after “health professionals” and inserted at end “In selecting participants for a program established under this subsection, the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall give priority to applicants who are employed by the Indian Health Service, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations, at the time of the submission of the applications.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–435, § 16(a)(2)](/us/pl/103/435/s16/a/2), inserted “(as defined in [section 1616a(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616a/a/2))” after “Indian health program”.

1992—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 108(1)](/us/pl/102/573/s108/1), amended last sentence generally. Prior to amendment, last sentence read as follows: “The Secretary shall develop standards for appropriate recoupment for such remaining service.”

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 108(2)](/us/pl/102/573/s108/2), struck out subsec. (d) which directed Secretary to prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
