---
title: "§ 30505. Governing body"
identifier: "USC-T36-S30505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section30505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/112/1320).)"
---
# § 30505. Governing body

##### § 30505. Governing body

(a) National Convention.—

(1) The national convention is the supreme governing authority of the corporation.

(2) The national convention is composed of officers and elected representatives from the States and other local subdivisions of the corporation as provided in the constitution and bylaws. However, the form of government of the corporation must be representative of the membership at large and may not permit concentration of control in a limited number of members or in a self-perpetuating group not representative of the membership at large.

(3) The meetings of the national convention may be held in the District of Columbia or any State, territory, or possession of the United States.

(b) Officers.— The officers of the corporation and their manner of selection, term of office, and duties are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1320](/us/stat/112/1320).)*

In subsection (a)(2), the words “several”, “always”, and “thereof . . . the hands of” are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (a)(3), the words “State, territory, or possession of the United States” are substituted for “State or Territory” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

Subsection (b) is substituted for the source provision for consistency in the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30505(a) | 36:946. | July 14, 1960, Pub. L. 86–653, §§ 6, 7, 74 Stat. 516. |
| 30505(b) | 36:947. |  |
