---
title: "§ 6703. Required contract terms"
identifier: "USC-T41-S6703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-section6703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "41"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3812](/us/stat/124/3812).)"
---
# § 6703. Required contract terms

##### § 6703. Required contract terms

(1) Minimum wage.— The contract and bid specification shall contain a provision specifying the minimum wage to be paid to each class of service employee engaged in the performance of the contract or any subcontract, as determined by the Secretary or the Secretary’s authorized representative, in accordance with prevailing rates in the locality, or, where a collective-bargaining agreement covers the service employees, in accordance with the rates provided for in the agreement, including prospective wage increases provided for in the agreement as a result of arm’s length negotiations. In any case the minimum wage may not be less than the minimum wage specified in [section 6704 of this title](/us/usc/t41/s6704).

(2) Fringe benefits.— The contract and bid specification shall contain a provision specifying the fringe benefits to be provided to each class of service employee engaged in the performance of the contract or any subcontract, as determined by the Secretary or the Secretary’s authorized representative to be prevailing in the locality, or, where a collective-bargaining agreement covers the service employees, to be provided for under the agreement, including prospective fringe benefit increases provided for in the agreement as a result of arm’s-length negotiations. The fringe benefits shall include medical or hospital care, pensions on retirement or death, compensation for injuries or illness resulting from occupational activity, or insurance to provide any of the foregoing, unemployment benefits, life insurance, disability and sickness insurance, accident insurance, vacation and holiday pay, costs of apprenticeship or other similar programs and other bona fide fringe benefits not otherwise required by Federal, State, or local law to be provided by the contractor or subcontractor. The obligation under this paragraph may be discharged by furnishing any equivalent combinations of fringe benefits or by making equivalent or differential payments in cash under regulations established by the Secretary.

(3) Working conditions.— The contract and bid specification shall contain a provision specifying that no part of the services covered by this chapter may be performed in buildings or surroundings or under working conditions, provided by or under the control or supervision of the contractor or any subcontractor, which are unsanitary or hazardous or dangerous to the health or safety of service employees engaged to provide the services.

(4) Notice.— The contract and bid specification shall contain a provision specifying that on the date a service employee begins work on a contract to which this chapter applies, the contractor or subcontractor will deliver to the employee a notice of the compensation required under paragraphs (1) and (2), on a form prepared by the Federal agency, or will post a notice of the required compensation in a prominent place at the worksite.

(5) General schedule pay rates and prevailing rate systems.— The contract and bid specification shall contain a statement of the rates that would be paid by the Federal agency to each class of service employee if section 5332 or 5341 of title 5 were applicable to them. The Secretary shall give due consideration to these rates in making the wage and fringe benefit determinations specified in this section.

*([Pub. L. 111–350, § 3](/us/pl/111/350/s3), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3812](/us/stat/124/3812).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6703 | 41:351(a) (words before par. (1) related to required contract terms), (1)–(5). | Pub. L. 89–286, § 2(a) (words before par. (1) related to required contract terms), (1)–(5), Oct. 22, 1965, 79 Stat. 1034; Pub. L. 92–473, §§ 1, 2, Oct. 9, 1972, 86 Stat. 789; Pub. L. 94–489, § 2, Oct. 13, 1976, 90 Stat. 2358. |

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Executive Order No. 13495

Ex. Ord. No. 13495, Jan. 30, 2009, 74 F.R. 6103, which provided for nondisplacement of qualified workers under a successor service contract upon the expiration of the predecessor contract, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 13897, § 1, Oct. 31, 2019, 84 F.R. 59709, formerly set out below.

#### Executive Order No. 13897

Ex. Ord. No. 13897, Oct. 31, 2019, 84 F.R. 59709, which related to the revocation of Ex. Ord. No. 13495, formerly set out above, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 14055, § 9, Nov. 18, 2021, 86 F.R. 66400, set out below.

#### Executive Order No. 14055

Ex. Ord. No. 14055, Nov. 18, 2021, 86 F.R. 66397, which required agencies to ensure that service contracts and subcontracts that succeed a contract for performance of the same or similar work, and solicitations for such contracts and subcontracts, include a clause requiring the contractor and its subcontractors offer a right of first refusal of employment to service employees employed under the predecessor contract and its subcontracts, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 14148, § 2(qq), Jan. 20, 2025, 90 F.R. 8239.
