---
title: "§ 2315. Procedures for judicial review of classified information"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2315"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2315"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXII, § 7215](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXII/s7215), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2268](/us/stat/133/2268).)"
---
# § 2315. Procedures for judicial review of classified information

##### § 2315. Procedures for judicial review of classified information

(a) In general If a finding under this subchapter, or a prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such finding, is based on classified information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a court reviews the finding or the imposition of the prohibition, condition, or penalty, the President may submit such information to the court ex parte and in camera.

(b) Rule of construction Nothing in this section shall be construed—

(1) to confer or imply any right to judicial review of any finding under this subchapter, or any prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such finding; or

(2) to limit or restrict any other practice, procedure, right, remedy, or safeguard that—

(A) relates to the protection of classified information; and

(B) is available to the United States in connection with any type of administrative hearing, litigation, or other proceeding.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXII, § 7215](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXII/s7215), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2268](/us/stat/133/2268).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act, referred to in subsec.(a), is [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 95–456](/us/pl/95/456/s1/a), Oct. 15, 1980, [94 Stat. 2025](/us/stat/94/2025), which is set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

This subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 7211–7217) of title LXXII of div. F of [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions and authorities of President under subsection (a) of this section delegated to Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, by section 1(d)(viii) of Memorandum of President of the United States, Mar. 31, 2020, 85 F.R. 22343, set out as a note under [section 2311 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s2311).
