---
title: "§ 9782. Maintenance and repair of real property"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9782"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9782"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title II, § 242(a)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tII/s242/a), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1666](/us/stat/111/1666); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 923(e)(21)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s923/e/21), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3819](/us/stat/134/3819).)"
---
# § 9782. Maintenance and repair of real property

##### § 9782. Maintenance and repair of real property

(a) Allocation of Funds.— The Secretary of the Air Force shall allocate funds authorized to be appropriated by a provision described in subsection (c) and a provision described in subsection (d) for maintenance and repair of real property at military installations of the Department of the Air Force without regard to whether the installation is supported with funds authorized by a provision described in subsection (c) or (d).

(b) Mixing of Funds Prohibited on Individual Projects.— The Secretary of the Air Force may not combine funds authorized to be appropriated by a provision described in subsection (c) and funds authorized to be appropriated by a provision described in subsection (d) for an individual project for maintenance and repair of real property at a military installation of the Department of the Air Force.

(c) Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Funds.— The provision described in this subsection is a provision of a national defense authorization Act that authorizes funds to be appropriated for a fiscal year to the Air Force or the Space Force for research, development, test, and evaluation.

(d) Operation and Maintenance Funds.— The provision described in this subsection is a provision of a national defense authorization Act that authorizes funds to be appropriated for a fiscal year to the Air Force or the Space Force for operation and maintenance.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title II, § 242(a)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tII/s242/a), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1666](/us/stat/111/1666); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 923(e)(21)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s923/e/21), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3819](/us/stat/134/3819).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) inserted “or the Space Force” after “the Air Force”.
