---
title: "§ 2101. Effective date"
identifier: "USC-T48-S2101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section2101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–187, § 2](/us/pl/114/187/s2), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 550](/us/stat/130/550).)"
---
# § 2101. Effective date

##### § 2101. Effective date

(a) In general Except as provided in subsection (b), this chapter shall take effect on June 30, 2016.

(b) Subchapter III and Subchapter VI

(1) Subchapter III shall apply with respect to cases commenced under subchapter III on or after June 30, 2016.

(2) Subchapters III and VI shall apply with respect to debts, claims, and liens (as such terms are defined in [section 101 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s101)) created before, on, or after such date.

*([Pub. L. 114–187, § 2](/us/pl/114/187/s2), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 550](/us/stat/130/550).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 114–187](/us/pl/114/187), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 549](/us/stat/130/549), known as the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act and also as PROMESA, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2022 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–82, § 1](/us/pl/117/82/s1), Jan. 20, 2022, [136 Stat. 3](/us/stat/136/3), provided that: “This Act [enacting [section 2178 of this title](/us/usc/t48/s2178)] may be cited as the ‘Puerto Rico Recovery Accuracy in Disclosures Act of 2021’ or ‘PRRADA’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 114–187, § 1(a)](/us/pl/114/187/s1/a), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 549](/us/stat/130/549), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, amending sections 1469e and 1492a of this title, sections 632 and 644 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade, and [section 206 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s206), Labor, and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 632 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s632)] may be cited as the ‘Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act’ or ‘PROMESA’.”
