---
title: "§ 4811. Referendum"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4811"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4811"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–198, title XVI, § 1622](/us/pl/99/198/tXVI/s1622), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1618](/us/stat/99/1618).)"
---
# § 4811. Referendum

##### § 4811. Referendum

(a) Continuation of order For the purpose of determining whether an order then 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “in”. effect shall be continued during the period beginning not earlier than 24 months after the issuance of the order and ending not later than 30 months after the issuance of the order, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among persons who have been pork producers and importers during a representative period, as determined by the Secretary.

(b) Factors determining continuation; termination of order

(1) Such order shall be continued only if the Secretary determines that such order has been approved by not less than a majority of the producers and importers voting in the referendum.

(2) If the continuation of such order is not approved by a majority of the producers and importers voting in the referendum, the Secretary shall terminate—

(A) collection of assessments under the order not later than 6 months after the date of such determination; and

(B) the order in an orderly manner as soon as practicable after the date of such determination.

(c) Reimbursement for cost The Secretary shall be reimbursed from assessments collected by the Board for any expenses incurred in connection with a referendum conducted under this section or [section 4812 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4812).

(d) Manner of conducting A referendum shall be conducted in such manner as prescribed by the Secretary.

(e) Amendment of initial order A referendum to amend the initial order shall be conducted pursuant to this section.

*([Pub. L. 99–198, title XVI, § 1622](/us/pl/99/198/tXVI/s1622), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1618](/us/stat/99/1618).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1986, see [section 1631 of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s1631), set out as a note under [section 4801 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4801).
