---
title: "§ 322. Reception of eligible persons at ports of entry or debarkation"
identifier: "USC-T24-S322"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title24-section322"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "24"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–571, § 2](/us/pl/86/571/s2), July 5, 1960, [74 Stat. 308](/us/stat/74/308); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)"
---
# § 322. Reception of eligible persons at ports of entry or debarkation

##### § 322. Reception of eligible persons at ports of entry or debarkation

(a) Arrangements for care, treatment, and assistance Upon request of the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized (directly or through arrangements under this subsection) to receive any eligible person at any port of entry or debarkation upon arrival from a foreign country and, to the extent he finds it necessary, to temporarily care for and treat at suitable facilities (including a hospital), and otherwise render assistance to, such person pending his transfer or hospitalization pursuant to other sections of this chapter. For the purpose of providing such care and treatment and assistance, the Secretary is authorized to enter into suitable arrangements with appropriate State or other public or nonprofit agencies. Such arrangements shall be made without regard to [section 6101 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s6101), and may provide for payment by the Secretary either in advance or by way of reimbursement.

(b) Payment or reimbursement for care, treatment, or assistance The Secretary may, to the extent deemed appropriate, equitable, and practicable by him, (1) require any person receiving care and treatment or assistance pursuant to subsection (a) to pay, in advance or by way of reimbursement, for the cost thereof or (2) obtain reimbursement for such cost from any State or political subdivision responsible for the cost of his subsequent hospitalization.

*([Pub. L. 86–571, § 2](/us/pl/86/571/s2), July 5, 1960, [74 Stat. 308](/us/stat/74/308); [Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/96/88/tV/s509/b), Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 695](/us/stat/93/695).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In subsec. (a), “[section 6101 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s6101)” substituted for “section 3709 of the Revised Statutes, as amended ([41 U.S.C. 5](/us/usc/t41/s5))” on authority of [Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c)](/us/pl/111/350/s6/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3854](/us/stat/124/3854), which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted in text for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b) which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.
