---
title: "§ 9704. Powers of the Commission"
identifier: "USC-T20-S9704"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section9704"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–159, title V, § 515](/us/pl/108/159/tV/s515), Dec. 4, 2003, [117 Stat. 2007](/us/stat/117/2007).)"
---
# § 9704. Powers of the Commission

##### § 9704. Powers of the Commission

(a) Hearings

(1) In general The Commission shall hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission deems appropriate to carry out this chapter.

(2) Participation In hearings held under this subsection, the Commission shall consider inviting witnesses from, among other groups—

(A) other Federal Government officials;

(B) State and local government officials;

(C) consumer and community groups;

(D) nonprofit financial literacy and education groups (such as those involved in personal finance and economic education); and

(E) the financial services industry.

(b) Information from Federal agencies The Commission may secure directly from any Federal department or agency such information as the Commission considers necessary to carry out this chapter. Upon request of the Chairperson, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission.

(c) Periodic studies The Commission may conduct periodic studies regarding the state of financial literacy and education in the United States, as the Commission determines appropriate.

(d) Multilingual The Commission may take any action to develop and promote financial literacy and education materials in languages other than English, as the Commission deems appropriate, including for the website established under [section 9703(b) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s9703/b), at the toll-free number established under [section 9703(c) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s9703/c), and in the materials developed and disseminated under [section 9703(d) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s9703/d).

*([Pub. L. 108–159, title V, § 515](/us/pl/108/159/tV/s515), Dec. 4, 2003, [117 Stat. 2007](/us/stat/117/2007).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section subject to joint regulations establishing effective dates as prescribed by Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission, except as otherwise provided, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–159](/us/pl/108/159/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under [section 1681 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1681), Commerce and Trade.

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 108–159](/us/pl/108/159/s2), set out as a note under [section 1681 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1681), Commerce and Trade.
