---
title: "§ 204. Exclusive jurisdiction ceded to United States by California"
identifier: "USC-T16-S204"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section204"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Apr. 26, 1928, ch. 438, § 1](/us/act/1928-04-26/ch438/s1), [45 Stat. 463](/us/stat/45/463).)"
---
# § 204. Exclusive jurisdiction ceded to United States by California

##### § 204. Exclusive jurisdiction ceded to United States by California

Sole and exclusive jurisdiction is assumed by the United States over the territory which is included as of April 26, 1928, or thereafter within the Lassen Volcanic National Park, saving, however, to the State of California the right to serve civil or criminal process within the limits of the aforesaid park in suits or prosecutions for or on account of rights acquired, obligations incurred, or crimes committed in said State outside of said park; and saving further to the said State the right to tax persons and corporations, their franchises and property on the lands included in said park, and the right to fix and collect license fees for fishing in said park; and saving also to the persons residing in said park now, or hereafter, the right to vote at all elections held within the county or counties in which said park is situated. All the laws applicable to places under sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States shall have force and effect in said park. All fugitives from justice taking refuge in said park shall be subject to the same laws as refugees from justice found in the State of California.

*([Apr. 26, 1928, ch. 438, § 1](/us/act/1928-04-26/ch438/s1), [45 Stat. 463](/us/stat/45/463).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

A provision accepting the act of the California Legislature which ceded to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over the territory referred to in this section has been omitted as executed.
