---
title: "§ 10565. Administrative provisions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10565"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10565"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2805](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2805), as added [Pub. L. 106–561, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/106/561/s2/c/1), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2790](/us/stat/114/2790).)"
---
# § 10565. Administrative provisions

##### § 10565. Administrative provisions

(a) Regulations The Attorney General may promulgate such guidelines, regulations, and procedures as may be necessary to carry out this subchapter, including guidelines, regulations, and procedures relating to the submission and review of applications for grants under [section 10562 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10562).

(b) Expenditure records

(1) Records Each State, or unit of local government within the State, that receives a grant under this subchapter shall maintain such records as the Attorney General may require to facilitate an effective audit relating to the receipt of the grant, or the use of the grant amount.

(2) Access The Attorney General and the Comptroller General of the United States, or a designee thereof, shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any book, document, or record of a State, or unit of local government within the State, that receives a grant under this subchapter, if, in the determination of the Attorney General, Comptroller General, or designee thereof, the book, document, or record is related to the receipt of the grant, or the use of the grant amount.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2805](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2805), as added [Pub. L. 106–561, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/106/561/s2/c/1), Dec. 21, 2000, [114 Stat. 2790](/us/stat/114/2790).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797n of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797n), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
