---
title: "§ 290bb–10. Evidence-based prescription opioid and heroin treatment and interventions demonstration"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290bb–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290bb–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 514B, as added [Pub. L. 114–198, title III, § 301](/us/pl/114/198/tIII/s301), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 717](/us/stat/130/717); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1213](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1213), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5661](/us/stat/136/5661).)"
---
# § 290bb–10. Evidence-based prescription opioid and heroin treatment and interventions demonstration

##### § 290bb–10. Evidence-based prescription opioid and heroin treatment and interventions demonstration

(a) Grants to expand access

(1) Authority to award grants The Secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to State substance use disorder agencies, units of local government, nonprofit organizations, and Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations (as defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304)) that have a high rate, or have had a rapid increase, in the use of heroin or other opioids, in order to permit such entities to expand activities, including an expansion in the availability of evidence-based medication-assisted treatment and other clinically appropriate services, with respect to the treatment of substance use disorders in the specific geographical areas of such entities where there is a high rate or rapid increase in the use of heroin or other opioids, such as in rural areas.

(2) Nature of activities Funds awarded under paragraph (1) shall be used for activities that are based on reliable scientific evidence of efficacy in the treatment of problems related to heroin or other opioids.

(b) Application To be eligible for a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a), an entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.

(c) Evaluation An entity that receives a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) shall submit, in the application for such grant, contract, or agreement a plan for the evaluation of any project undertaken with funds provided under this section. Such entity shall provide the Secretary with periodic evaluations of the progress of such project and an evaluation at the completion of such project as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(d) Geographic distribution In awarding grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under this section, the Secretary shall ensure that not less than 15 percent of funds are awarded to eligible entities that are not located in metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget). The Secretary shall take into account the unique needs of rural communities, including communities with an incidence of individuals with opioid use disorder that is above the national average and communities with a shortage of prevention and treatment services.

(e) Additional activities In administering grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—

(1) evaluate the activities supported under such subsection;

(2) disseminate information, as appropriate, derived from evaluations as the Secretary considers appropriate;

(3) provide States, Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, and providers with technical assistance in connection with the provision of treatment of problems related to heroin and other opioids; and

(4) fund only those applications that specifically support recovery services as a critical component of the program involved.

(f) Authorization of appropriations To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 514B, as added [Pub. L. 114–198, title III, § 301](/us/pl/114/198/tIII/s301), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 717](/us/stat/130/717); amended [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1213](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1213), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5661](/us/stat/136/5661).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1213(1)](/us/pl/117/328/s1213/1), substituted “substance use disorder” for “substance abuse”, “Tribes and Tribal organizations” for “tribes and tribal organizations”, and “substance use disorders” for “addiction”.

Subsec. (e)(3). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1213(2)](/us/pl/117/328/s1213/2), substituted “Tribes and Tribal organizations” for “tribes and tribal organizations”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1213(3)](/us/pl/117/328/s1213/3), substituted “2023 through 2027” for “2017 through 2021”.
