---
title: "§ 20117. Disposal of excess land"
identifier: "USC-T51-S20117"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section20117"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3337](/us/stat/124/3337).)"
---
# § 20117. Disposal of excess land

##### § 20117. Disposal of excess land

(1) a period of 30 days has passed after the receipt by the Speaker and the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives and the President and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate of a report by the Administrator or the Administrator’s designee containing a full and complete statement of the action proposed to be taken and the facts and circumstances relied upon in support of such action; or

(2) each such committee before the expiration of that period has transmitted to the Administrator written notice to the effect that the committee has no objection to the proposed action.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3337](/us/stat/124/3337).)*

In paragraph (1), the words “Committee on Science and Technology” are substituted for “Committee on Science, Space, and Technology” on authority of [section 1(a)(10) of Public Law 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a/10) (2 U.S.C. note prec. 21), Rule X(1)(n) of the Rules of the House of Representatives, adopted by House Resolution No. 5 (106th Congress, January 6, 1999), and Rule X(1)(*o*) of the Rules of the House of Representatives, adopted by House Resolution No. 6 (110th Congress, January 5, 2007).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20117 | 42 U.S.C. 2476a. | Pub. L. 85–568, title II, § 207, as added Pub. L. 93–74, § 7, July 23, 1973, 87 Stat. 175; amended Pub. L. 103–437, § 15(j), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4593. |

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.
