---
title: "§ 1457. Public Safety Trust Fund"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1457"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1457"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6413](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6413), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 235](/us/stat/126/235).)"
---
# § 1457. Public Safety Trust Fund

##### § 1457. Public Safety Trust Fund

(a) Establishment of Public Safety Trust Fund

(1) In general There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the Public Safety Trust Fund.

(2) Availability Amounts deposited in the Public Safety Trust Fund shall remain available through fiscal year 2022. Any amounts remaining in the Fund after the end of such fiscal year shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury, where such amounts shall be dedicated for the sole purpose of deficit reduction.

(b) Use of Fund As amounts are deposited in the Public Safety Trust Fund, such amounts shall be used to make the following deposits or payments in the following order of priority:

(1) Repayment of amount borrowed for First Responder Network Authority An amount not to exceed $2,000,000,000 shall be available to the NTIA to reimburse the general fund of the Treasury for any amounts borrowed under [section 1427 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1427).

(2) State and Local Implementation Fund $135,000,000 shall be deposited in the State and Local Implementation Fund established by [section 1441 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1441).

(3) Buildout by First Responder Network Authority $7,000,000,000, reduced by the amount borrowed under [section 1427 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1427), shall be deposited in the Network Construction Fund established by [section 1426 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1426).

(4) Public safety research $100,000,000 shall be available to the Director of NIST to carry out [section 1443 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1443).

(5) Deficit reduction $20,400,000,000 shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury, where such amount shall be dedicated for the sole purpose of deficit reduction.

(6) 9–1–1, E9–1–1, and Next Generation 9–1–1 implementation grants $115,000,000 shall be available to the Assistant Secretary and the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to carry out the grant program under [section 942 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s942).

(7) Additional public safety research $200,000,000 shall be available to the Director of NIST to carry out [section 1443 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1443).

(8) Additional deficit reduction Any remaining amounts deposited in the Public Safety Trust Fund shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury, where such amounts shall be dedicated for the sole purpose of deficit reduction.

(c) Investment Amounts in the Public Safety Trust Fund shall be invested in accordance with [section 9702 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s9702), and any interest on, and proceeds from, any such investment shall be credited to, and become a part of, the Fund.

*([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6413](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6413), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 235](/us/stat/126/235).)*
