---
title: "§ 5177. Unemployment assistance"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5177"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5177"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–288, title IV, § 410](/us/pl/93/288/tIV/s410), formerly § 407, May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 156](/us/stat/88/156); renumbered § 410 and amended [Pub. L. 100–707, title I, § 106(e)](/us/pl/100/707/tI/s106/e), (f), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4703](/us/stat/102/4703), 4704; [Pub. L. 118–44, § 2](/us/pl/118/44/s2), Mar. 18, 2024, [138 Stat. 455](/us/stat/138/455).)"
---
# § 5177. Unemployment assistance

##### § 5177. Unemployment assistance

(a) Benefit assistance The President is authorized to provide to any individual unemployed as a result of a major disaster such benefit assistance as he deems appropriate while such individual is unemployed for the weeks of such unemployment with respect to which the individual is not entitled to any other unemployment compensation (as that term is defined in [section 85(b) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s85/b)) or waiting period credit. Such assistance as the President shall provide shall be available to an individual as long as the individual’s unemployment caused by the major disaster continues or until the individual is reemployed in a suitable position, but no longer than 26 weeks after the major disaster is declared. Such assistance for a week of unemployment shall not exceed the maximum weekly amount authorized under the unemployment compensation law of the State in which the disaster occurred. The President is directed to provide such assistance through agreements with States which, in his judgment, have an adequate system for administering such assistance through existing State agencies.

(b) Reemployment assistance

(1) State assistance A State shall provide, without reimbursement from any funds provided under this chapter, reemployment assistance services under any other law administered by the State to individuals receiving benefits under this section.

(2) Federal assistance The President may provide reemployment assistance services under other laws to individuals who are unemployed as a result of a major disaster and who reside in a State which does not provide such services.

(c) Application deadline

(1) In general With respect to a major disaster for which assistance is provided under this section and [section 5174 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5174), the application deadline for an individual seeking assistance under this section shall match the application deadline for individuals and households seeking assistance under [section 5174 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5174).

(2) Extension The President may accept an application from an individual described in paragraph (1) that is submitted after the deadline described in paragraph (1) if—

(A) the individual has good cause for the late submission; and

(B) the individual submits the application before the date on which the period during which assistance is provided under this section for the applicable major disaster expires.

*([Pub. L. 93–288, title IV, § 410](/us/pl/93/288/tIV/s410), formerly § 407, May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 156](/us/stat/88/156); renumbered § 410 and amended [Pub. L. 100–707, title I, § 106(e)](/us/pl/100/707/tI/s106/e), (f), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4703](/us/stat/102/4703), 4704; [Pub. L. 118–44, § 2](/us/pl/118/44/s2), Mar. 18, 2024, [138 Stat. 455](/us/stat/138/455).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 410 of Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288/s410) was renumbered section 413 by [Pub. L. 100–707](/us/pl/100/707) and is classified to [section 5180 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5180).

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–44](/us/pl/118/44) added subsec. (c).

1988—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 100–707, § 106(f)(1)](/us/pl/100/707/s106/f/1)–(3), inserted “for the weeks of such unemployment with respect to which the individual is not entitled to any other unemployment compensation (as that term is defined in [section 85(b) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s85/b)) or waiting period credit” for “is unemployed” before period at end of first sentence, substituted “26 weeks” for “one year” in second sentence, and substituted “occurred” for “occurred, and the amount of assistance under this section to any such individual for a week of unemployment shall be reduced by any amount of unemployment compensation or of private income protection insurance compensation available to such individual for such week of unemployment” in third sentence.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–707, § 106(f)(4)](/us/pl/100/707/s106/f/4), inserted heading and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The President is further authorized for the purposes of this chapter to provide reemployment assistance services under other laws to individuals who are unemployed as a result of a major disaster.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2024 Amendment

[Pub. L. 118–44, § 3](/us/pl/118/44/s3), Mar. 18, 2024, [138 Stat. 456](/us/stat/138/456), provided that: “The amendment made by section 2 [amending this section] shall apply only with respect to amounts appropriated on or after the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 18, 2024].”
