---
title: "§ 6007. Policy toward a democratic Cuban Government"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6007"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6007"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title XVII, § 1708](/us/pl/102/484/dA/tXVII/s1708), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2580](/us/stat/106/2580).)"
---
# § 6007. Policy toward a democratic Cuban Government

##### § 6007. Policy toward a democratic Cuban Government

(a) Waiver of restrictions The President may waive the requirements of [section 6005 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6005) if the President determines and reports to the Congress that the Government of Cuba—

(1) has held free and fair elections conducted under internationally recognized observers;

(2) has permitted opposition parties ample time to organize and campaign for such elections, and has permitted full access to the media to all candidates in the elections;

(3) is showing respect for the basic civil liberties and human rights of the citizens of Cuba;

(4) is moving toward establishing a free market economic system; and

(5) has committed itself to constitutional change that would ensure regular free and fair elections that meet the requirements of paragraph (2).

(b) Policies If the President makes a determination under subsection (a), the President shall take the following actions with respect to a Cuban Government elected pursuant to elections described in subsection (a):

(1) To encourage the admission or reentry of such government to international organizations and international financial institutions.

(2) To provide emergency relief during Cuba’s transition to a viable economic system.

(3) To take steps to end the United States trade embargo of Cuba.

*([Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title XVII, § 1708](/us/pl/102/484/dA/tXVII/s1708), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2580](/us/stat/106/2580).)*
