---
title: "§ 5202. Purchase of restricted Indian lands; preference to Secretary of the Interior; waiver of preference"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5202"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5202"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1936, ch. 831, § 2](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831/s2), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967); [Aug. 4, 1947, ch. 458, § 10](/us/act/1947-08-04/ch458/s10), [61 Stat. 734](/us/stat/61/734).)"
---
# § 5202. Purchase of restricted Indian lands; preference to Secretary of the Interior; waiver of preference

##### § 5202. Purchase of restricted Indian lands; preference to Secretary of the Interior; waiver of preference

Whenever any restricted Indian land or interests in land, other than sales or leases of oil, gas, or other minerals therein, are offered for sale, pursuant to the terms of this chapter or any other Act of Congress, the Secretary of the Interior shall have a preference right, in his discretion, to purchase the same for or in behalf of any other Indian or Indians of the same or any other tribe, at a fair valuation to be fixed by the appraisement satisfactory to the Indian owner or owners, or if offered for sale at auction said Secretary shall have a preference right, in his discretion, to purchase the same for or in behalf of any other Indian or Indians by meeting the highest bid otherwise offered therefor.

The preference right of the Secretary to purchase shall be considered as waived where notice of the pendency of sale is given in writing to the Superintendent of the Five Civilized Tribes for at least ten days prior to the date of sale and the Secretary does not within that time exercise the preferential right to purchase.

*([June 26, 1936, ch. 831, § 2](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831/s2), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967); [Aug. 4, 1947, ch. 458, § 10](/us/act/1947-08-04/ch458/s10), [61 Stat. 734](/us/stat/61/734).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 502 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s502) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1947—Act Aug. 4, 1947, added second paragraph.
