---
title: "§ 40722. Functions"
identifier: "USC-T36-S40722"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section40722"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1337](/us/stat/112/1337).)"
---
# § 40722. Functions

##### § 40722. Functions

(1) to instruct citizens of the United States in marksmanship;

(2) to promote practice and safety in the use of firearms;

(3) to conduct competitions in the use of firearms and to award trophies, prizes, badges, and other insignia to competitors;

(4) to secure and account for firearms, ammunition, and other equipment for which the corporation is responsible;

(5) to issue, loan, or sell firearms, ammunition, repair parts, and other supplies under sections 40731 and 40732 of this title; and

(6) to procure necessary supplies and services to carry out the Program.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1337](/us/stat/112/1337).)*

Before clause (1), the words “The functions of the Civilian Marksmanship Program are” are added because of the reorganization of the revised chapter.

In clause (3), the word “matches” is omitted as included in “competitions”.

In clause (4), the words “to secure and account for” are substituted for “The provision of security and accountability for” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “for which the corporation is responsible” are substituted for “under the custody and control of the Corporation” for clarity and for consistency with [section 40731(b) of this title](/us/usc/t36/s40731/b) related to firearms that are not under the direct custody and control of the corporation because they have been issued or loaned.

In clause (5), the words “ammunition, repair parts, and other supplies” are substituted for “ammunition, supplies, and appliances” for consistency in the revised title.

In clause (6), the words “supplies and services” are substituted for “supplies, appliances, clerical services, other related services, and labor” to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40722 | 36:5502(a) (less words before cl. (1)). | Feb. 10, 1996, Pub. L. 104–106, title XVI, § 1612(a) (less words before cl. (1)), 110 Stat. 516. |
