---
title: "§ 1663. Office of Direct Service Tribes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1663"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1663"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/94/437/tVI/s603), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1663. Office of Direct Service Tribes

##### § 1663. Office of Direct Service Tribes

(a) Establishment There is established within the Service an office, to be known as the “Office of Direct Service Tribes”.

(b) Treatment The Office of Direct Service Tribes shall be located in the Office of the Director.

(c) Duties The Office of Direct Service Tribes shall be responsible for—

(1) providing Service-wide leadership, guidance and support for direct service tribes to include strategic planning and program evaluation;

(2) ensuring maximum flexibility to tribal health and related support systems for Indian beneficiaries;

(3) serving as the focal point for consultation and participation between direct service tribes and organizations and the Service in the development of Service policy;

(4) holding no less than biannual consultations with direct service tribes in appropriate locations to gather information and aid in the development of health policy; and

(5) directing a national program and providing leadership and advocacy in the development of health policy, program management, budget formulation, resource allocation, and delegation support for direct service tribes.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/94/437/tVI/s603), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 603 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s603) is based on section 172 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1663, [Pub. L. 94–437, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/94/437/tVI/s603), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/102/573/tVI/s603), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4571](/us/stat/106/4571), authorized appropriations through fiscal year 2000 to carry out this subchapter, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935). The repeal is based on section 101(b)(10) of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).
