---
title: "§ 2204b–1. Rural development"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2204b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2204b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–524, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/91/524/tIX/s901), Nov. 30, 1970, [84 Stat. 1383](/us/stat/84/1383); [Pub. L. 92–419, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/92/419/tVI/s601), Aug. 30, 1972, [86 Stat. 674](/us/stat/86/674); [Pub. L. 94–273, § 7(3)](/us/pl/94/273/s7/3), Apr. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 378](/us/stat/90/378); [Pub. L. 96–355, § 6](/us/pl/96/355/s6), Sept. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 1174](/us/stat/94/1174).)"
---
# § 2204b–1. Rural development

##### § 2204b–1. Rural development

(a) Congressional commitment The Congress commits itself to a sound balance between rural and urban America. The Congress considers this balance so essential to the peace, prosperity, and welfare of all our citizens that the highest priority must be given to the revitalization and development of rural areas.

(b) Location of Federal facilities Congress hereby directs the heads of all executive departments and agencies of the Government to establish and maintain departmental policies and procedures giving first priority to the location of new offices and other facilities in rural areas as defined in the private business enterprise exception in section 1926(a)(7) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

*([Pub. L. 91–524, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/91/524/tIX/s901), Nov. 30, 1970, [84 Stat. 1383](/us/stat/84/1383); [Pub. L. 92–419, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/92/419/tVI/s601), Aug. 30, 1972, [86 Stat. 674](/us/stat/86/674); [Pub. L. 94–273, § 7(3)](/us/pl/94/273/s7/3), Apr. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 378](/us/stat/90/378); [Pub. L. 96–355, § 6](/us/pl/96/355/s6), Sept. 24, 1980, [94 Stat. 1174](/us/stat/94/1174).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1926(a)(7) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1926/a/7), referred to in subsec. (b), was repealed and a new section 1926(a)(7) was added by [Pub. L. 104–127, title VII, § 741(a)(2)](/us/pl/104/127/tVII/s741/a/2), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 1123](/us/stat/110/1123). As added, [section 1926(a)(7) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1926/a/7) defined “rural areas” but no longer contained provisions relating to a private business enterprise exception. Subsequently, section 1926(a)(7) was repealed by [Pub. L. 107–171, title VI, § 6020(b)(1)](/us/pl/107/171/tVI/s6020/b/1), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 363](/us/stat/116/363).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3122 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3122), The Public Health and Welfare.

#### Amendments

1980—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 96–355](/us/pl/96/355) struck out provisions respecting annual report to Congress by the President covering efforts, etc., made for locating all new facilities.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 96–355](/us/pl/96/355) struck out subsec. (c) which related to planning assistance and annual report to Congress respecting such assistance.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 96–355](/us/pl/96/355) struck out subsec. (d) which related to information and technical assistance and annual report to Congress respecting such assistance.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 96–355](/us/pl/96/355) struck out subsec. (e) which related to provision of government services and annual report to Congress respecting such services.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 96–355](/us/pl/96/355) struck out subsec. (f) which required report to Congress by July 1, 1971, relating to implementation of rural financial assistance requirements.

1976—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–273](/us/pl/94/273) substituted “December” for “September”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 94–273](/us/pl/94/273) substituted “December 1 of” for “September 1 of”.

1972—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 92–419](/us/pl/92/419) struck out “insofar as practicable,” after “maintain” and substituted “policies and procedures giving first priority to the location of new offices and other facilities in rural areas as defined in the private business enterprise exception in [section 1926(a)(7) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1926/a/7)”, for “policies and procedures with respect to the location of new offices and other facilities in areas or communities of lower population density in preference to areas or communities of high population densities”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–355](/us/pl/96/355) effective Oct. 1, 1980, see [section 10 of Pub. L. 96–355](/us/pl/96/355/s10), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 2204b of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2204b).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Executive Order No. 11797

Ex. Ord. No. 11797, July 31, 1974, 39 F.R. 27893, which delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture the President’s authority to prepare and submit to Congress annual reports concerning the location of new Federal facilities in rural areas, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12553, Feb. 25, 1986, 51 F.R. 7237.
