---
title: "§ 3383. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3383"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3383"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5529](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5529), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3325](/us/stat/136/3325).)"
---
# § 3383. Definitions

##### § 3383. Definitions

(1) Agency head The term “agency head” means, in the case of the executive branch of United States Government or a legislative branch agency described in paragraph (2), the head of the respective agency.

(2) Agency of the United States Government The term “agency of the United States Government” includes the Government Accountability Office, the Congressional Budget Office, and the Congressional Research Service of the legislative branch, as well as any agency of the executive branch.

(3) Appropriate committees of Congress The term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and

(D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(4) Detailee The term “detailee” means—

(A) an employee of an agency of the United States Government on loan to the American Institute in Taiwan, without a change of position from the agency at which the employee is employed; and

(B) a legislative branch employee from the Government Accountability Office, Congressional Budget Office, or the Congressional Research Service.

(5) Implementing partner The term “implementing partner” means any United States organization described in [section 501(c)(3) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3) that—

(A) performs logistical, administrative, and other functions, as determined by the Department of State and the American Institute of Taiwan in support of the Taiwan Fellowship Program; and

(B) enters into a cooperative agreement with the American Institute in Taiwan to administer the Taiwan Fellowship Program.

(6) Program The term “Program” means the Taiwan Fellowship Program established pursuant to [section 3384 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3384).

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5529](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5529), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3325](/us/stat/136/3325).)*
