---
title: "§ 3030. Director of Science and Technology"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3030"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3030"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 103E, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1011(a)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1011/a), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3659](/us/stat/118/3659); amended [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVII, § 6703(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVII/s6703/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3562](/us/stat/136/3562).)"
---
# § 3030. Director of Science and Technology

##### § 3030. Director of Science and Technology

(a) Director of Science and Technology There is a Director of Science and Technology within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence who shall be appointed by the Director of National Intelligence.

(b) Requirement relating to appointment An individual appointed as Director of Science and Technology shall have a professional background and experience appropriate for the duties of the Director of Science and Technology. In making such appointment, the Director of National Intelligence may give preference to an individual with experience outside of the United States Government.

(c) Duties The Director of Science and Technology shall—

(1) act as the chief representative of the Director of National Intelligence for science and technology;

(2) chair the Director of National Intelligence Science and Technology Committee under subsection (d);

(3) assist the Director in formulating a long-term strategy for scientific advances in the field of intelligence;

(4) assist the Director on the science and technology elements of the budget of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence; and

(5) perform other such duties as may be prescribed by the Director of National Intelligence or specified by law.

(d) Director of National Intelligence Science and Technology Committee

(1) There is within the Office of the Director of Science and Technology a Director of National Intelligence Science and Technology Committee.

(2) The Committee shall be composed of the principal science officers of the National Intelligence Program.

(3) The Committee shall—

(A) coordinate advances in research and development related to intelligence; and

(B) perform such other functions as the Director of Science and Technology shall prescribe.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 103E, as added [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1011(a)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1011/a), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3659](/us/stat/118/3659); amended [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVII, § 6703(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVII/s6703/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3562](/us/stat/136/3562).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403–3e of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403–3e) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) inserted at end “In making such appointment, the Director of National Intelligence may give preference to an individual with experience outside of the United States Government.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For Determination by President that section take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Section effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

#### Emerging Technology Adoption

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVII, § 6703(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVII/s6703/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3562](/us/stat/136/3562), provided that: “The Director of Science and Technology may— “(1) conduct reviews of the policies, standards, and procedures of the intelligence community that relate to emerging technologies and, as appropriate, recommend to the Director of National Intelligence changes to such policies, standards, and procedures, to accelerate and increase the adoption of emerging technologies by the intelligence community; “(2) make recommendations, in coordination with the heads of the elements of the intelligence community, to the Director of National Intelligence with respect to the budgets of such elements, to accelerate and increase the adoption of emerging technologies by such elements; and “(3) coordinate with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering on initiatives, policies, and programs carried out jointly between the intelligence community and the Department of Defense to accelerate and increase the adoption of emerging technologies.”

[For definition of “intelligence community” as used in [section 6703(a) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6703/a), set out above, see [section 6002 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6002), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).]

[For definition of “emerging technology” as used in [section 6703(a) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6703/a), set out above, see [section 6701 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6701), set out as a note under [section 3024 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3024).]
