---
title: "§ 1471f. Availability of appropriations for incremental funding of research work orders for cooperative agreements"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1471f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1471f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–332, title I, § 115](/us/pl/103/332/tI/s115), Sept. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 2519](/us/stat/108/2519); [Pub. L. 105–83, title I, § 116](/us/pl/105/83/tI/s116), Nov. 14, 1997, [111 Stat. 1563](/us/stat/111/1563).)"
---
# § 1471f. Availability of appropriations for incremental funding of research work orders for cooperative agreements

##### § 1471f. Availability of appropriations for incremental funding of research work orders for cooperative agreements

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal year 1995 and thereafter, appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in this title 11 See References in Text note below. or provided from other Federal agencies through reimbursable or other agreements pursuant to sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31 may be used to fund incrementally research work orders for cooperative agreements with colleges and universities, State agencies, and nonprofit organizations that overlap fiscal years: *Provided*, That such cooperative agreements shall contain a statement that “the obligation of funds for future incremental payments shall be subject to the availability of funds.”

*([Pub. L. 103–332, title I, § 115](/us/pl/103/332/tI/s115), Sept. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 2519](/us/stat/108/2519); [Pub. L. 105–83, title I, § 116](/us/pl/105/83/tI/s116), Nov. 14, 1997, [111 Stat. 1563](/us/stat/111/1563).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in text, is title I of [Pub. L. 103–332](/us/pl/103/332), Sept. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 2499](/us/stat/108/2499), known as the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

“Sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31” was substituted in text for “the Economy Act” on authority of [Pub. L. 97–258, § 4(b)](/us/pl/97/258/s4/b), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1067](/us/stat/96/1067), the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.

#### Amendments

1997—[Pub. L. 105–83](/us/pl/105/83) inserted “or provided from other Federal agencies through reimbursable or other agreements pursuant to sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31” after “in this title”.
