---
title: "§ 15099. Evaluation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15099"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15099"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–402, title II, § 210](/us/pl/106/402/tII/s210), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1733](/us/stat/114/1733).)"
---
# § 15099. Evaluation

##### § 15099. Evaluation

(a) In general The Secretary shall conduct a national evaluation of the program of grants to States authorized by this subchapter.

(b) Purpose

(1) In general The Secretary shall conduct the evaluation under subsection (a) to assess the status and effects of State efforts to develop and implement, or expand and enhance, statewide systems of family support services for families of children with disabilities in a manner consistent with the provisions of this subchapter. In particular, the Secretary shall assess the impact of such efforts on families of children with disabilities, and recommend amendments to this subchapter that are necessary to assist States to accomplish fully the purposes of this subchapter.

(2) Information systems The Secretary shall work with the States to develop an information system designed to compile and report, from information provided by the States, qualitative and quantitative descriptions of the impact of the program of grants to States authorized by this subchapter on—

(A) families of children with disabilities, including families from unserved and underserved populations;

(B) access to and funding for family support services for families of children with disabilities;

(C) interagency coordination and collaboration between agencies responsible for providing the services; and

(D) the involvement of families of children with disabilities at all levels of the statewide systems.

(c) Report to Congress Not later than 2½ years after October 30, 2000, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report concerning the results of the evaluation conducted under this section.

*([Pub. L. 106–402, title II, § 210](/us/pl/106/402/tII/s210), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1733](/us/stat/114/1733).)*
