---
title: "§ 17053. Federal fleet fueling centers"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17053"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17053"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 246](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s246), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1547](/us/stat/121/1547).)"
---
# § 17053. Federal fleet fueling centers

##### § 17053. Federal fleet fueling centers

(a) In general Not later than January 1, 2010, the head of each Federal agency shall install at least 1 renewable fuel pump at each Federal fleet fueling center in the United States under the jurisdiction of the head of the Federal agency.

(b) Report Not later than October 31 of the first calendar year beginning after December 19, 2007, and each October 31 thereafter, the President shall submit to Congress a report that describes the progress toward complying with subsection (a), including identifying—

(1) the number of Federal fleet fueling centers that contain at least 1 renewable fuel pump; and

(2) the number of Federal fleet fueling centers that do not contain any renewable fuel pumps.

(c) Department of Defense facility This section shall not apply to a Department of Defense fueling center with a fuel turnover rate of less than 100,000 gallons of fuel per year.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 246](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s246), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1547](/us/stat/121/1547).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
