---
title: "§ 8331. Members of the Fleet Reserve and Fleet Marine Corps Reserve: transfer to the retired list; retired pay"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8331"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8331"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 397](/us/stat/70A/397), § 6331; [Pub. L. 85–583, § 1](/us/pl/85/583/s1)(4–6), Aug. 1, 1958, [72 Stat. 480](/us/stat/72/480); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 515(b)(1)(K)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s515/b/1/K), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3233](/us/stat/119/3233); renumbered § 8331 and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 807(b)(15), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 1840"
---
# § 8331. Members of the Fleet Reserve and Fleet Marine Corps Reserve: transfer to the retired list; retired pay

##### § 8331. Members of the Fleet Reserve and Fleet Marine Corps Reserve: transfer to the retired list; retired pay

(a) When he has completed 30 years of service, or when he is found not physically qualified in an examination under [section 8385 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8385), a member of the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve shall be transferred—

(1) to the retired list of the Regular Navy or the Regular Marine Corps, as appropriate, if he was a member of the Regular Navy or the Regular Marine Corps at the time of his transfer to the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve; or

(2) to the appropriate Retired Reserve, if he was a member of the Navy Reserve or the Marine Corps Reserve at the time of his transfer to the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a), a member’s years of service are computed by adding—

(1) the years of service credited to him upon his transfer to the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve;

(2) his years of active and inactive service in the armed forces before his transfer to the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve not credited to him upon that transfer; and

(3) his years of service, active and inactive, in the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve.

(c) Unless otherwise entitled to higher pay, each member transferred to the retired list or the Retired Reserve under this section is entitled to retired pay at the same rate as the retainer pay to which he was entitled at the time of his transfer to the retired list or the Retired Reserve.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 397](/us/stat/70A/397), § 6331; [Pub. L. 85–583, § 1](/us/pl/85/583/s1)(4–6), Aug. 1, 1958, [72 Stat. 480](/us/stat/72/480); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 515(b)(1)(K)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s515/b/1/K), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3233](/us/stat/119/3233); renumbered § 8331 and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 807(b)(15), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 1840.)*

In subsection (a) the words “transferred * * * in accordance with the provisions of this section and of sections 853 and 854b of this title”, in the fourth proviso of [34 U.S.C. 854c](/us/usc/t34/s854c), and the words “transferred after sixteen years’ or more service in the Regular Navy”, and “men coming under the cognizance of sections 853 and 854b of this title”, in the second proviso of [34 U.S.C. 854e](/us/usc/t34/s854e), are omitted as surplusage since the classes designated by these phrases comprise all members of the Fleet Reserve and Fleet Marine Corps Reserve.

Subsection (b) is worded so as to cover all members of the Fleet Reserve and the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve regardless of the law under which they attained that status. A member transferring under [34 U.S.C. 854b](/us/usc/t34/s854b) may count only active naval service in computing the service required for that transfer, but in determining his eligibility for retirement he may add to his active naval service all previous active or inactive service in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Coast Guard, and his time in the Fleet Reserve. A member transferring to the Fleet Reserve under [34 U.S.C. 854c](/us/usc/t34/s854c) may count active service in any armed force toward that transfer, and he determines his eligibility for retirement by adding to the service credited to him at the time of transfer any previous inactive service in the armed forces and his time in the Fleet Reserve. As to the latter member the words “active service” in clause (2) are superfluous, since such service would have been credited to him upon his transfer to the Fleet Reserve, but they are needed in the case of a member transferred under [34 U.S.C. 854b](/us/usc/t34/s854b).

In subsection (c) references to the “allowances to which enlisted men of the Navy are entitled on retirement after thirty years’ service”, in the second and fourth provisos of [34 U.S.C. 854e](/us/usc/t34/s854e), are omitted because of the repeal, by § 19 of the Pay Readjustment Act of 1942, [56 Stat. 369](/us/stat/56/369), of the laws authorizing such allowances.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6331 | 34 U.S.C. 854c (4th proviso). | June 25, 1938, ch. 690, § 204 (4th proviso), 52 Stat. 1179; Aug. 10, 1946, ch. 952, § 2, 60 Stat. 993. |
|  | 34 U.S.C. 854e (2d and 4th provisos). | June 25, 1938, ch. 690, § 206 (2d and 4th provisos), 52 Stat. 1179; Apr. 25, 1940, ch. 153, 54 Stat. 162. |
|  | 34 U.S.C. 854 (note). | July 9, 1952, ch. 608, § 803 (3d sentence), 66 Stat. 505. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232, § 807(b)(15)](/us/pl/115/232/s807/b/15), renumbered [section 6331 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s6331) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–232, § 809(a)](/us/pl/115/232/s809/a), substituted “section 8385” for “section 6485” in introductory provisions.

2006—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163) substituted “Navy Reserve” for “Naval Reserve”.

1958—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 85–583, § 1(4)](/us/pl/85/583/s1/4), provided for the transfer to the appropriate Retired Reserve of those members of the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve who had transferred thereto from the Naval Reserve or the Marine Corps Reserve.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 85–583, § 1(5)](/us/pl/85/583/s1/5), struck out “of clause (2)”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 85–583, § 1(6)](/us/pl/85/583/s1/6), inserted “or the Retired Reserve” after “retired list” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
