---
title: "§ 242c–1. Advisory committee to the Director"
identifier: "USC-T42-S242c–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section242c–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 305A, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2102](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2102), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5709](/us/stat/136/5709).)"
---
# § 242c–1. Advisory committee to the Director

##### § 242c–1. Advisory committee to the Director

(a) In general Not later than 60 days after December 29, 2022, the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (referred to in this section as the “Director”), shall maintain or establish an advisory committee within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to advise the Director on policy and strategies that enable the agency to fulfill its mission.

(b) Functions and activities The Advisory Committee may—

(1) make recommendations to the Director regarding ways to prioritize the activities of the agency in alignment with the CDC Strategic Plan required under [section 242c(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s242c/c);

(2) advise on ways to achieve or improve performance metrics in relation to the CDC Strategic Plan, and other relevant metrics, as appropriate;

(3) provide advice and recommendations on the development of the CDC Strategic Plan, and any subsequent updates, as appropriate;

(4) advise on grants, cooperative agreements, contracts, or other transactions, as applicable;

(5) provide other advice to the Director, as requested, to fulfill duties under sections 241 and 243 of this title; and

(6) appoint subcommittees.

(c) Membership

(1) In general The Advisory Committee shall consist of not more than 15 non-Federal members, including the Chair, to be appointed by the Secretary under paragraph (3).

(2) Ex officio members Any ex officio members of the Advisory Council 11 So in original. may consist of—

(A) the Secretary;

(B) the Assistant Secretary for Health;

(C) the Director; and

(D) such additional officers or employees of the United States as the Secretary determines necessary for the advisory committee to effectively carry out its functions.

(3) Appointed members Individuals shall be appointed to the Advisory Committee under paragraph (1) as follows:

(A) Twelve of the members shall be appointed by the Director from among the leading representatives of the health disciplines (including public health, global health, health disparities, biomedical research, public health preparedness, and other fields, as applicable) relevant to the activities of the agency or center, as applicable.

(B) Three of the members may be appointed by the Secretary from the general public and may include leaders in fields of innovation, public policy, public relations, law, economics, or management.

(4) Compensation Ex officio members of the Advisory Council ^1 who are officers or employees of the United States shall not receive any compensation for service on the advisory committee. The remaining members of the advisory committee may receive, for each day (including travel time) they are engaged in the performance of the functions of the advisory committee, compensation at rates not to exceed the daily equivalent to the annual rate of basic pay for level III of the Executive Schedule under [section 5314 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314).

(5) Terms of office

(A) In general The term of office of a member of the advisory committee appointed under paragraph (3) shall be 4 years, except that any member appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall serve for the remainder of such term. The Secretary shall make appointments to the advisory committee in such a manner as to ensure that the terms of the members not all expire in the same year. A member of the advisory committee may serve after the expiration of such member’s term until a successor has been appointed and taken office.

(B) Reappointments A member who has been appointed to the advisory committee for a term of 4 years may not be reappointed to the advisory committee during the 2-year period beginning on the date on which such 4-year term expired.

(C) Time for appointment If a vacancy occurs in the advisory committee among the members appointed under paragraph (3), the Secretary shall make an appointment to fill such vacancy within 90 days from the date the vacancy occurs.

(d) Chair The Secretary shall select a member of the advisory committee to serve as the Chair of the committee. The Secretary may so select an individual from among the appointed members. The term of office of the chair shall be 2 years.

(e) Meetings The advisory committee shall meet at the call of the Chair or upon request of the Director, but in no event less than 2 times during each fiscal year.

(f) Executive secretary and staff The Director shall designate a member of the staff of the agency to serve as the executive secretary of the advisory committee. The Director shall make available to the advisory committee such staff, information, and other assistance as it may require to carry out its functions. The Director shall provide orientation and training for new members of the advisory committee to provide for their effective participation in the functions of the advisory committee.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 305A, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2102](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2102), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5709](/us/stat/136/5709).)*
