---
title: "§ 2311. Report to Congress covering proposals for water impoundment facilities"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–662, title XII, § 1202](/us/pl/99/662/tXII/s1202), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4263](/us/stat/100/4263).)"
---
# § 2311. Report to Congress covering proposals for water impoundment facilities

##### § 2311. Report to Congress covering proposals for water impoundment facilities

Any report that is submitted to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate or the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives by the Secretary, or the Secretary of Agriculture acting under [Public Law 83–566](/us/pl/83/566), as amended [[16 U.S.C. 1001](/us/usc/t16/s1001) et seq.], which proposes construction of a water impoundment facility, shall include information on the consequences of failure and geologic or design factors which could contribute to the possible failure of such facility.

*([Pub. L. 99–662, title XII, § 1202](/us/pl/99/662/tXII/s1202), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4263](/us/stat/100/4263).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Public Law 83–566](/us/pl/83/566), as amended, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 4, 1954, ch. 656](/us/act/1954-08-04/ch656), [68 Stat. 666](/us/stat/68/666), known as the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act, which is classified principally to chapter 18 (§ 1001 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1001 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1001) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Public Works and Transportation of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress.
