---
title: "§ 3699B. Treatment of certain for-profit educational institutions"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3699B"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3699B"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–315, title I, § 1022(a)](/us/pl/116/315/tI/s1022/a), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 4959](/us/stat/134/4959).)"
---
# § 3699B. Treatment of certain for-profit educational institutions

##### § 3699B. Treatment of certain for-profit educational institutions

(a) In General.— In the case of any for-profit educational institution that is converted to a nonprofit educational institution, the State approving agency or the Secretary when acting as a State approving agency shall conduct annual risk-based surveys of the institution during the three-year period beginning on the date on which the educational institution is so converted.

(b) Risk-based Survey Defined.— In this section, the term “risk-based survey” means the risk-based survey developed under [section 3673A of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3673A).

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–315, title I, § 1022(a)](/us/pl/116/315/tI/s1022/a), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 4959](/us/stat/134/4959).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 116–315, title I, § 1022(c)](/us/pl/116/315/tI/s1022/c), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 4959](/us/stat/134/4959), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–16, § 5(a)](/us/pl/117/16/s5/a), June 8, 2021, [135 Stat. 283](/us/stat/135/283), provided that: “[Section 3699B of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s3699B), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to the conversion of a for-profit educational institution to a nonprofit educational institution, or the conversion of a for-profit educational institution to a public educational institution, that occurs on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 5, 2021].”

[[Pub. L. 117–16, § 5(b)](/us/pl/117/16/s5/b), June 8, 2021, [135 Stat. 283](/us/stat/135/283), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending [section 1022(c) of Pub. L. 116–315](/us/pl/116/315/s1022/c), set out above] shall apply as if included in the enactment of the Johnny Isakson and David P. Roe, M.D. Veterans Health Care and Benefits Improvement Act of 2020 ([Public Law 116–315](/us/pl/116/315)).” ]
