---
title: "§ 11277. Evaluation and information"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11277"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11277"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 386](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s386), formerly § 364, as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7278](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7278), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4458](/us/stat/102/4458); renumbered § 384, [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(g)(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/g/1/A/ii), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5022](/us/stat/106/5022); renumbered § 386 and amended [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3](/us/pl/106/71/s3)(*l*), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/113/1039).)"
---
# § 11277. Evaluation and information

##### § 11277. Evaluation and information

(a) In general If a grantee receives grants for 3 consecutive fiscal years under part A, B, C, D, or E (in the alternative), then the Secretary shall evaluate such grantee on-site, not less frequently than once in the period of such 3 consecutive fiscal years, for purposes of—

(1) determining whether such grants are being used for the purposes for which such grants are made by the Secretary;

(2) collecting additional information for the report required by [section 11275 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11275); and

(3) providing such information and assistance to such grantee as will enable such grantee to improve the operation of the centers, projects, and activities for which such grants are made.

(b) Cooperation Recipients of grants under this subchapter shall cooperate with the Secretary’s efforts to carry out evaluations, and to collect information, under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 386](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s386), formerly § 364, as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7278](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7278), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4458](/us/stat/102/4458); renumbered § 384, [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(g)(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/g/1/A/ii), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5022](/us/stat/106/5022); renumbered § 386 and amended [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3](/us/pl/106/71/s3)(*l*), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/113/1039).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5732 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5732), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1999—[Pub. L. 106–71](/us/pl/106/71) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(a) The Secretary shall develop for each fiscal year, and publish annually in the Federal Register for public comment a proposed plan specifying the subject priorities the Secretary will follow in making grants under this subchapter for such fiscal year.

“(b) Taking into consideration comments received in the 45-day period beginning on the date the proposed plan is published, the Secretary shall develop and publish, before December 31 of such fiscal year, a final plan specifying the priorities referred to in subsection (a) of this section.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1988, but not applicable with respect to fiscal year 1989, see section 7296(a), (b)(2) of [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690), set out as an Effective Date of 1988 Amendment note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).
