---
title: "§ 7723. Advisory committee on Arlington National Cemetery"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7723"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7723"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 591(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tV/s591/a/1), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1440](/us/stat/125/1440), § 4723; renumbered § 7723, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(d)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/d), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)"
---
# § 7723. Advisory committee on Arlington National Cemetery

##### § 7723. Advisory committee on Arlington National Cemetery

(a) Appointment.— The Secretary of the Army shall appoint an advisory committee on Arlington National Cemetery.

(b) Role.— The Secretary of the Army shall advise and consult with the advisory committee with respect to the administration of Arlington National Cemetery, the erection of memorials at the cemetery, and master planning for the cemetery.

(c) Reports and Recommendations.— The advisory committee shall make periodic reports and recommendations to the Secretary of the Army.

(d) Submission to Congress.— Not later than 90 days after receiving a report or recommendations from the advisory committee under subsection (c), the Secretary of the Army shall submit the report or recommendations to the congressional defense committees and the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives and include such comments and recommendations of the Secretary as the Secretary considers appropriate.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 591(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tV/s591/a/1), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1440](/us/stat/125/1440), § 4723; renumbered § 7723, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(d)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/d), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7723 was renumbered [section 8893 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8893).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 4723 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4723) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
