---
title: "§ 5852. General transfer and making tax exemption"
identifier: "USC-T26-S5852"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section5852"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–618, title II, § 201](/us/pl/90/618/tII/s201), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1233](/us/stat/82/1233); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)"
---
# § 5852. General transfer and making tax exemption

##### § 5852. General transfer and making tax exemption

(a) Transfer Any firearm may be transferred to the United States or any department, independent establishment, or agency thereof, without payment of the transfer tax imposed by section 5811.

(b) Making by a person other than a qualified manufacturer Any firearm may be made by, or on behalf of, the United States, or any department, independent establishment, or agency thereof, without payment of the making tax imposed by section 5821.

(c) Making by a qualified manufacturer A manufacturer qualified under this chapter to engage in such business may make the type of firearm which he is qualified to manufacture without payment of the making tax imposed by section 5821.

(d) Transfers between special (occupational) tax­payers A firearm registered to a person qualified under this chapter to engage in business as an importer, manufacturer, or dealer may be transferred by that person without payment of the transfer tax imposed by section 5811 to any other person qualified under this chapter to manufacture, import, or deal in that type of firearm.

(e) Unserviceable firearm An unserviceable firearm may be transferred as a curio or ornament without payment of the transfer tax imposed by section 5811, under such requirements as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe.

(f) Right to exemption No firearm may be transferred or made exempt from tax under the provisions of this section unless the transfer or making is performed pursuant to an application in such form and manner as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–618, title II, § 201](/us/pl/90/618/tII/s201), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1233](/us/stat/82/1233); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 5852, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 728](/us/stat/68A/728), related to removing or changing identification marks, prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618). See [section 5861(g) of this title](/us/usc/t26/s5861/g) and [section 922(k) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s922/k), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in prior section 5814, [act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 723](/us/stat/68A/723), as amended by act Sept. 2, 1958, [Pub. L. 85–859, title II, § 203(c)](/us/pl/85/859/tII/s203/c), [72 Stat. 1427](/us/stat/72/1427), prior to the general revision of this chapter by [Pub. L. 90–618](/us/pl/90/618).

#### Amendments

1976—Subsecs. (e), (f). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary”.
