---
title: "§ 8031. Office of the Chief of Naval Operations: function; composition"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8031"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8031"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–433, title V, § 512(b)](/us/pl/99/433/tV/s512/b), Oct. 1, 1986, [100 Stat. 1048](/us/stat/100/1048), § 5031; renumbered § 8031, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/a/1), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/132/1834).)"
---
# § 8031. Office of the Chief of Naval Operations: function; composition

##### § 8031. Office of the Chief of Naval Operations: function; composition

(a) There is in the executive part of the Department of the Navy an Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. The function of the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations is to assist the Secretary of the Navy in carrying out his responsibilities.

(b) The Office of the Chief of Naval Operations is composed of the following:

(1) The Chief of Naval Operations.

(2) The Vice Chief of Naval Operations.

(3) The Deputy Chiefs of Naval Operations.

(4) The Assistant Chiefs of Naval Operations.

(5) The Surgeon General of the Navy.

(6) The Chief of Naval Personnel.

(7) The Chief of Chaplains of the Navy.

(8) Other members of the Navy and Marine Corps assigned or detailed to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations.

(9) Civilian employees in the Department of the Navy assigned or detailed to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations.

(c) Except as otherwise specifically prescribed by law, the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations shall be organized in such manner, and its members shall perform such duties and have such titles, as the Secretary may prescribe.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–433, title V, § 512(b)](/us/pl/99/433/tV/s512/b), Oct. 1, 1986, [100 Stat. 1048](/us/stat/100/1048), § 5031; renumbered § 8031, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/a/1), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/132/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8031 was renumbered [section 9031 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9031).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 5031 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s5031) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
