---
title: "§ 300x–28. Additional agreements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300x–28"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300x–28"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1928, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 202](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s202), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 396](/us/stat/106/396); amended [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIII, § 3303(f)(2)(B)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXIII/s3303/f/2/B), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1211](/us/stat/114/1211); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, § 8002(e)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVIII/s8002/e), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/130/1230).)"
---
# § 300x–28. Additional agreements

##### § 300x–28. Additional agreements

(a) Improvement of process for appropriate referrals for treatment With respect to individuals seeking treatment services, a funding agreement for a grant under [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21) is that the State involved will improve the process in the State for referring the individuals to treatment facilities that can provide to the individuals the treatment modality that is most appropriate for the individuals.

(b) Professional development A funding agreement for a grant under [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21) is that the State involved will ensure that prevention, treatment, and recovery personnel operating in the State’s substance use disorder prevention, treatment, and recovery systems have an opportunity to receive training, on an ongoing basis, concerning—

(1) recent trends in substance use disorders in the State;

(2) improved methods and evidence-based practices for providing substance use disorder prevention and treatment services;

(3) performance-based accountability;

(4) data collection and reporting requirements; and

(5) any other matters that would serve to further improve the delivery of substance use disorder prevention and treatment services within the State.

(c) Coordination of various activities and services A funding agreement for a grant under [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21) is that the State involved will coordinate prevention and treatment activities with the provision of other appropriate services (including health, social, correctional and criminal justice, educational, vocational rehabilitation, and employment services).

(d) Waiver of requirement

(1) In general Upon the request of a State, the Secretary may provide to a State a waiver of any or all of the requirements established in this section if the Secretary determines that, with respect to services for the prevention and treatment of substance use disorders, the requirement involved is unnecessary for maintaining quality in the provision of such services in the State.

(2) Date certain for acting upon request The Secretary shall approve or deny a request for a waiver under paragraph (1) not later than 120 days after the date on which the request is made.

(3) Applicability of waiver Any waiver provided by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be applicable only to the fiscal year involved.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1928, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 202](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s202), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 396](/us/stat/106/396); amended [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIII, § 3303(f)(2)(B)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXIII/s3303/f/2/B), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1211](/us/stat/114/1211); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VIII, § 8002(e)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVIII/s8002/e), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1230](/us/stat/130/1230).)*

#### Repeal of Subsection (d)

[Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIII, § 3303(f)(2)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXIII/s3303/f/2), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1211](/us/stat/114/1211), provided that, effective upon publication of regulations developed in accordance with [section 300x–32(e)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–32/e/1), subsection (d) of this section is repealed.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1928 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 300y–7 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300y–7) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 99–280](/us/pl/99/280).

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 8002(e)(1)](/us/pl/114/255/s8002/e/1), struck out “(relative to fiscal year 1992)” after “State involved will improve”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 8002(e)(2)](/us/pl/114/255/s8002/e/2), added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “With respect to any facility for treatment services or prevention actitivities that is receiving amounts from a grant under [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21), a funding agreement for a State for a grant under such section is that continuing education in such services or activities (or both, as the case may be) will be made available to employees of the facility who provide the services or activities.”

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 8002(e)(3)](/us/pl/114/255/s8002/e/3), substituted “substance use disorders” for “substance abuse”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIII, § 3303(f)(2)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXIII/s3303/f/2), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1211](/us/stat/114/1211), provided that the amendment made by section 3303(f)(2) is effective upon the publication of the regulations developed in accordance with [section 300x–32(e)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–32/e/1).
