---
title: "§ 7487. United States Army War College: acceptance of grants for faculty research for scientific, literary, and educational purposes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7487"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7487"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 522(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s522/b/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3240](/us/stat/119/3240), § 4417; renumbered § 7487, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/c/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)"
---
# § 7487. United States Army War College: acceptance of grants for faculty research for scientific, literary, and educational purposes

##### § 7487. United States Army War College: acceptance of grants for faculty research for scientific, literary, and educational purposes

(a) Acceptance of Research Grants.— The Secretary of the Army may authorize the Commandant of the United States Army War College to accept qualifying research grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the work under the grant is to be carried out by a professor or instructor of the College for a scientific, literary, or educational purpose.

(b) Qualifying Grants.— A qualifying research grant under this section is a grant that is awarded on a competitive basis by an entity referred to in subsection (c) for a research project with a scientific, literary, or educational purpose.

(c) Entities From Which Grants May Be Accepted.— A grant may be accepted under this section only from a corporation, fund, foundation, educational institution, or similar entity that is organized and operated primarily for scientific, literary, or educational purposes.

(d) Administration of Grant Funds.— The Secretary shall establish an account for administering funds received as research grants under this section. The Commandant shall use the funds in the account in accordance with applicable provisions of the regulations and the terms and condition of the grants received.

(e) Related Expenses.— Subject to such limitations as may be provided in appropriations Acts, appropriations available for the Army War College may be used to pay expenses incurred by the College in applying for, and otherwise pursuing, the award of qualifying research grants.

(f) Regulations.— The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the administration of this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 522(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s522/b/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3240](/us/stat/119/3240), § 4417; renumbered § 7487, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/c/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7521, [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 464](/us/stat/70A/464), authorized Secretary of the Navy to make partial payments during progress of work done under contract, and directed that paramount lien on thing contracted for accrues to United States on account of payments so made, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 103–355, title II, § 2001(j)(1)](/us/pl/103/355/tII/s2001/j/1), title X, § 10001, Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3303](/us/stat/108/3303), 3404, subject to effective date and applicability provisions set out as a note under [section 2302 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2302). See [section 3808 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3808).

Prior sections 7522 to 7524 were renumbered sections 8752 to 8754 of this title, respectively.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 4417 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4417) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
