---
title: "§ 8470a. Permanent professors: retirement for years of service; authority for deferral"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8470a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8470a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 509(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s509/b/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3229](/us/stat/119/3229), § 6970; renumbered § 6970a, [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title V, § 508(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tV/s508/a/1/A), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 96](/us/stat/122/96); renumbered § 8470a and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 807(c)(1), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 1840.)"
---
# § 8470a. Permanent professors: retirement for years of service; authority for deferral

##### § 8470a. Permanent professors: retirement for years of service; authority for deferral

(a) Retirement for Years of Service.—

(1) Except as provided in subsection (b), an officer of the Navy or Marine Corps serving as a permanent professor at the Naval Academy in the grade of commander or lieutenant colonel who is not on a list of officers recommended for promotion to the grade of captain or colonel, as the case may be, shall, if not earlier retired, be retired on the first day of the month after the month in which the officer completes 28 years of active commissioned service.

(2) Except as provided in subsection (b), an officer of the Navy or Marine Corps serving as a permanent professor at the Naval Academy in the grade of captain or colonel who is not on a list of officers recommended for promotion to the grade of rear admiral (lower half) or brigadier general, as the case may be, shall, if not earlier retired, be retired on the first day of the month after the month in which the officer completes 30 years of active commissioned service.

(b) Continuation on Active Duty.—

(1) An officer subject to retirement under subsection (a) may have his retirement deferred and be continued on active duty by the Secretary of the Navy.

(2) Subject to [section 1252 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1252), the Secretary of the Navy shall determine the period of any continuation on active duty under this section.

(c) Eligibility for Promotion.— A permanent professor at the Naval Academy in the grade of commander or lieutenant colonel who is continued on active duty as a permanent professor under subsection (b) remains eligible for consideration for promotion to the grade of captain or colonel, as the case may be.

(d) Retired Grade and Retired Pay.— Each officer retired under this section—

(1) unless otherwise entitled to a higher grade, shall be retired in the grade determined under section 1370 11 See References in Text note below. of this title; and

(2) is entitled to retired pay computed under [section 8333 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8333).

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 509(b)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s509/b/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3229](/us/stat/119/3229), § 6970; renumbered § 6970a, [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title V, § 508(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tV/s508/a/1/A), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 96](/us/stat/122/96); renumbered § 8470a and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 807(c)(1), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 1840.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1370 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1370), referred to in subsec. (d)(1), was repealed and new sections 1370 and 1370a of this title were enacted by [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title V, § 508(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tV/s508/a/1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3574](/us/stat/134/3574), 3580. In determining the retired grade of certain commissioned officers of the Armed Forces who retire after Jan. 1, 2021, any reference to [section 1370 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1370) in such determination with respect to such officers deemed to be a reference to [section 1370a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1370a), see [section 508(c) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s508/c), set out as a note under [section 1370 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1370).

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232, § 807(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/s807/c/1), renumbered [section 6970a of this title](/us/usc/t10/s6970a) as this section.

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 115–232, § 809(a)](/us/pl/115/232/s809/a), substituted “section 8333” for “section 6333”.

2008—[Pub. L. 110–181](/us/pl/110/181) renumbered [section 6970 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s6970) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
