---
title: "§ 334. National Coast Guard Museum"
identifier: "USC-T14-S334"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section334"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–293, title II, § 213(a)](/us/pl/108/293/tII/s213/a), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/118/1037), § 98; amended [Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 219](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s219), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 48](/us/stat/130/48); renumbered § 316 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s104/b), title III, § 303, Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4196](/us/stat/132/4196), 4243; [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIV) [LXXXIV], § 8439("
---
# § 334. National Coast Guard Museum

##### § 334. National Coast Guard Museum

(a) Establishment.— The Commandant may establish, accept, operate, maintain and support the Museum, on lands which will be federally owned and administered by the Coast Guard, and are located in New London, Connecticut.

(b) Use of Funds.— The Secretary may expend funds appropriated to the Coast Guard on—

(1) the design of a Museum;

(2) engineering, construction, construction administration, and quality assurance services for a Museum, including construction, construction administration, and quality assurance services carried out by the Association; and

(3) providing Federal financial assistance to the Association for the activities under subsection (d).

(c) Funding Plan.— Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of the Elijah E. Cummings Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2020 and at least 90 days before the date on which the Commandant accepts the Museum under subsection (f), the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a plan for constructing, operating, and maintaining such Museum, including—

(1) estimated planning, engineering, design, construction, operation, and maintenance costs;

(2) the extent to which appropriated, nonappropriated, and non-Federal funds will be used for such purposes, including the extent to which there is any shortfall in funding for engineering, design, or construction;

(3) an explanation of any environmental remediation issues related to the land associated with the Museum; and

(4) a certification by a third party entity qualified to undertake such a certification process that the estimates provided pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) are reasonable and realistic.

(d) Construction.—

(1) The Association may construct the Museum described in subsection (a).

(2) The Museum shall be designed and constructed in compliance with the International Building Code 2018, and construction performed on Federal land under this section shall be exempt from State and local requirements for building or demolition permits.

(e) Agreements.— Under such terms and conditions as the Commandant considers appropriate, notwithstanding section 504, and until the Commandant accepts the Museum under subsection (f), the Commandant may—

(1) license Federal land to the Association for the purpose of constructing the Museum described in subsection (a); and

(2)

(A) at a nominal charge, lease the Museum from the Association for activities and operations related to the Museum; and

(B) authorize the Association to generate revenue from the use of the Museum.

(f) Acceptance.— Not earlier than 90 days after the Commandant submits the plan under subsection (c), the Commandant shall accept the Museum from the Association and all right, title, and interest in and to the Museum shall vest in the United States when—

(1) the Association demonstrates, in a manner acceptable to the Commandant, that the Museum meets the design and construction requirements of subsection (d); and

(2) all financial obligations of the Association incident to the National Coast Guard Museum have been satisfied.

(g) Services.— With respect to the services related to the activities for which the Secretary can expend funds under subsection (b), or for maintenance or operation of the Museum, the Secretary may, with respect to any entity—

(1) solicit and accept such services; and

(2) enter into contracts or memoranda of agreement to acquire such services.

(h) Authority.— The Commandant may not establish a Museum except as set forth in this section.

(i) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Museum.— The term “Museum” means the National Coast Guard Museum.

(2) Association.— The term “Association” means the National Coast Guard Museum Association.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–293, title II, § 213(a)](/us/pl/108/293/tII/s213/a), Aug. 9, 2004, [118 Stat. 1037](/us/stat/118/1037), § 98; amended [Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 219](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s219), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 48](/us/stat/130/48); renumbered § 316 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s104/b), title III, § 303, Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4196](/us/stat/132/4196), 4243; [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIV) [LXXXIV], § 8439(a), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4737](/us/stat/134/4737); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, § 11259](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXII/s11259), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4058](/us/stat/136/4058); renumbered § 334 and amended [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7201(b)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7201/b), (e)(8), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1675](/us/stat/139/1675), 1684.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Elijah E. Cummings Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2020, referred to in subsec. (c), is the date of enactment of div. G of [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283), which was approved Jan. 1, 2021.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 334 was renumbered [section 2501 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s2501).

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 119–60, § 7201(b)](/us/pl/119/60/s7201/b), renumbered [section 316 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s316) as this section.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7201(e)(8)(A)](/us/pl/119/60/s7201/e/8/A), amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(1) The Secretary shall not expend any funds appropriated to the Coast Guard on the construction of any museum established under this section.

“(2) Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary may expend funds appropriated to the Coast Guard on the engineering and design of a Museum.

“(3) The priority for the use of funds appropriated to the Coast Guard shall be to preserve, protect, and display historic Coast Guard artifacts, including the design, fabrication, and installation of exhibits or displays in which such artifacts are included.”

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 119–60, § 7201(e)(8)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/s7201/e/8/B), amended subsec. (g) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Commandant may solicit from the Association and accept services from nonprofit entities, including services related to activities for construction of the Museum.”

2022—Subsec. (c)(4). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) substituted “a third party entity qualified to undertake such a certification process” for “the Inspector General of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating”.

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to National Coast Guard Museum.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 303](/us/pl/115/282/s303), amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to National Coast Guard Museum.

[Pub. L. 115–282, § 104(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s104/b), renumbered [section 98 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s98) as this section.

2016—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 114–120, § 219(1)](/us/pl/114/120/s219/1), substituted “any funds appropriated to the Coast Guard on” for “any appropriated Federal funds for”.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 114–120, § 219(2)](/us/pl/114/120/s219/2), substituted “artifacts, including the design, fabrication, and installation of exhibits or displays in which such artifacts are included.” for “artifacts.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7201(f)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7201/f), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1685](/us/stat/139/1685), provided that: “(1) In general.—Nothing in chapter 3 of title 14, United States Code, or any other law, may be construed to require the Coast Guard to construct, own, or operate a Museum as a condition of providing financial support to the Association for the purposes for which assistance is authorized under such chapter. “(2) Definitions.—In paragraph (1), the terms ‘Association’ and ‘Museum’ have the meanings given such terms in chapter 3 of title 14, United States Code.”
