---
title: "§ 1616g. INMED program"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1616g"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1616g"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 114](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s114), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title I, § 109](/us/pl/100/713/tI/s109), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4796](/us/stat/102/4796); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title I](/us/pl/102/573/tI), §§ 109, 117(b)(6), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4538](/us/stat/106/4538), 4544.)"
---
# § 1616g. INMED program

##### § 1616g. INMED program

(a) Grants The Secretary is authorized to provide grants to at least 3 colleges and universities for the purpose of maintaining and expanding the Native American health careers recruitment program known as the “Indians into Medicine Program” (hereinafter in this section referred to as “INMED”) as a means of encouraging Indians to enter the health professions.

(b) University of North Dakota The Secretary shall provide one of the grants authorized under subsection (a) to maintain the INMED program at the University of North Dakota, to be known as the “Quentin N. Burdick Indian Health Programs”, unless the Secretary makes a determination, based upon program reviews, that the program is not meeting the purposes of this section. Such program shall, to the maximum extent feasible, coordinate with the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Psychology Program established under [section 1621p(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1621p/b) and the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program established under [section 1616e(e) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616e/e).

(c) Regulations; contents of recruitment program

(1) The Secretary shall develop regulations for the competitive awarding of the grants provided under this section.

(2) Applicants for grants provided under this section shall agree to provide a program which—

(A) provides outreach and recruitment for health professions to Indian communities including elementary, secondary and community colleges located on Indian reservations which will be served by the program,

(B) incorporates a program advisory board comprised of representatives from the tribes and communities which will be served by the program,

(C) provides summer preparatory programs for Indian students who need enrichment in the subjects of math and science in order to pursue training in the health professions,

(D) provides tutoring, counseling and support to students who are enrolled in a health career program of study at the respective college or university, and

(E) to the maximum extent feasible, employs qualified Indians in the program.

(d) Report to Congress By no later than the date that is 3 years after November 23, 1988, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress on the program established under this section including recommendations for expansion or changes to the program.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 114](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s114), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title I, § 109](/us/pl/100/713/tI/s109), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4796](/us/stat/102/4796); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title I](/us/pl/102/573/tI), §§ 109, 117(b)(6), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4538](/us/stat/106/4538), 4544.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 109](/us/pl/102/573/s109), inserted “to be known as the ‘Quentin N. Burdick Indian Health Programs’,” after “North Dakota,” and “Such program shall, to the maximum extent feasible, coordinate with the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Psychology Program established under [section 1621p(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1621p/b) and the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program established under [section 1616e(e) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616e/e).” at end.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 117(b)(6)](/us/pl/102/573/s117/b/6), struck out subsec. (e) which authorized appropriations for fiscal years 1990 to 1992.
