---
title: "§ 2322. Appraisal of property"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2322"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2322"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 3, § 32, [69 Stat. 474](/us/stat/69/474); [Pub. L. 87–719, § 5](/us/pl/87/719/s5), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 664](/us/stat/76/664); [Pub. L. 90–19, § 11](/us/pl/90/19/s11), May 25, 1967, [81 Stat. 23](/us/stat/81/23).)"
---
# § 2322. Appraisal of property

##### § 2322. Appraisal of property

The Commission shall proceed to secure appraisals of all property at the community which is to be sold pursuant to this chapter. The appraisals shall be made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development or his designee. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall be reimbursed from the Community Disposal Operations Fund for the cost of such appraisals. Appraisals made under this section shall be the appraisals on which the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may insure any mortgage or loan under the National Housing Act [[12 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t12/s1701) et seq.] until such time as he finds that the appraisal values generally in the community no longer represent the fair market values of the properties.

*([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 3, § 32, [69 Stat. 474](/us/stat/69/474); [Pub. L. 87–719, § 5](/us/pl/87/719/s5), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 664](/us/stat/76/664); [Pub. L. 90–19, § 11](/us/pl/90/19/s11), May 25, 1967, [81 Stat. 23](/us/stat/81/23).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Housing Act, referred to in text, is [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), [48 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/48/1246), which is classified principally to chapter 13 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 12, Banks and Banking. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1701 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1701) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1967—[Pub. L. 90–19](/us/pl/90/19) substituted “Secretary of Housing and Urban Development” for “Federal Housing Commissioner” wherever appearing.

1962—[Pub. L. 87–719](/us/pl/87/719) substituted “The Federal Housing Commissioner shall be reimbursed from the Community Disposal Operations Fund for the cost of such appraisals” for “The Commission shall reimburse the Federal Housing Commissioner for the cost of such appraisals”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.
