---
title: "§ 60553. Addressing the needs of children of incarcerated parents"
identifier: "USC-T34-S60553"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section60553"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–199, title II, § 243](/us/pl/110/199/tII/s243), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 691](/us/stat/122/691).)"
---
# § 60553. Addressing the needs of children of incarcerated parents

##### § 60553. Addressing the needs of children of incarcerated parents

(a) Best practices

(1) In general From amounts made available to carry out this section, the Attorney General may collect data and develop best practices of State corrections departments and child protection agencies relating to the communication and coordination between such State departments and agencies to ensure the safety and support of children of incarcerated parents (including those in foster care and kinship care), and the support of parent-child relationships between incarcerated (and formerly incarcerated) parents and their children, as appropriate to the health and well-being of the children.

(2) Contents The best practices developed under paragraph (1) shall include information related to policies, procedures, and programs that may be used by States to address—

(A) maintenance of the parent-child bond during incarceration;

(B) parental self-improvement; and

(C) parental involvement in planning for the future and well-being of their children.

(b) Dissemination to States Not later than 1 year after the development of best practices described in subsection (a), the Attorney General shall disseminate to States and other relevant entities such best practices.

(c) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that States and other relevant entities should use the best practices developed and disseminated in accordance with this section to evaluate and improve the communication and coordination between State corrections departments and child protection agencies to ensure the safety and support of children of incarcerated parents (including those in foster care and kinship care), and the support of parent-child relationships between incarcerated (and formerly incarcerated) parents and their children, as appropriate to the health and well-being of the children.

*([Pub. L. 110–199, title II, § 243](/us/pl/110/199/tII/s243), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 691](/us/stat/122/691).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 17553 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s17553), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
