---
title: "§ 50501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S50501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section50501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–12, § 2](/us/pl/114/12/s2), May 19, 2015, [129 Stat. 192](/us/stat/129/192).)"
---
# § 50501. Definitions

##### § 50501. Definitions

(1) Coordinator The term “Coordinator” means the Blue Alert Coordinator of the Department of Justice designated under [section 50503(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50503/a).

(2) Blue Alert The term “Blue Alert” means information sent through the network relating to—

(A) the serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer in the line of duty;

(B) an officer who is missing in connection with the officer’s official duties; or

(C) an imminent and credible threat that an individual intends to cause the serious injury or death of a law enforcement officer.

(3) Blue Alert plan The term “Blue Alert plan” means the plan of a State, unit of local government, or Federal agency participating in the network for the dissemination of information received as a Blue Alert.

(4) Law enforcement officer The term “law enforcement officer” shall have the same meaning as in [section 10284 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10284).

(5) Network The term “network” means the Blue Alert communications network established by the Attorney General under [section 50502 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50502).

(6) State The term “State” means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

*([Pub. L. 114–12, § 2](/us/pl/114/12/s2), May 19, 2015, [129 Stat. 192](/us/stat/129/192).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14165 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14165), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of [Pub. L. 114–12](/us/pl/114/12), which is classified to this chapter, as the “Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015”, see [section 1 of Pub. L. 114–12](/us/pl/114/12/s1), set out as a Short Title of 2015 Act note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
