---
title: "§ 3922b. Public diplomacy training"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3922b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3922b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7110](/us/pl/108/458/tVII/s7110), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3793](/us/stat/118/3793).)"
---
# § 3922b. Public diplomacy training

##### § 3922b. Public diplomacy training

(a) Statement of policy The following should be the policy of the United States:

(1) The Foreign Service should recruit individuals with expertise and professional experience in public diplomacy.

(2) United States chiefs of mission should have a prominent role in the formulation of public diplomacy strategies for the countries and regions to which they are assigned and should be accountable for the operation and success of public diplomacy efforts at their posts.

(3) Initial and subsequent training of Foreign Service officers should be enhanced to include information and training on public diplomacy and the tools and technology of mass communication.

(b) Personnel

(1) Qualifications In the recruitment, training, and assignment of members of the Foreign Service, the Secretary of State—

(A) should emphasize the importance of public diplomacy and applicable skills and techniques;

(B) should consider the priority recruitment into the Foreign Service, including at middle-level entry, of individuals with expertise and professional experience in public diplomacy, mass communications, or journalism; and

(C) shall give special consideration to individuals with language facility and experience in particular countries and regions.

(2) Languages of special interest The Secretary of State shall seek to increase the number of Foreign Service officers proficient in languages spoken in countries with predominantly Muslim populations. Such increase should be accomplished through the recruitment of new officers and incentives for officers in service.

*([Pub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7110](/us/pl/108/458/tVII/s7110), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3793](/us/stat/118/3793).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 7110 of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s7110). Subsec. (c) of [section 7110 of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s7110) amended [section 4003 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s4003).

Section was enacted as part of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, and also as part of the 9/11 Commission Implementation Act of 2004, and not as part of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.
