---
title: "§ 6577. Senate legislative information system"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6577"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6577"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–197, title I, § 8](/us/pl/104/197/tI/s8), Sept. 16, 1996, [110 Stat. 2398](/us/stat/110/2398).)"
---
# § 6577. Senate legislative information system

##### § 6577. Senate legislative information system

(a) Development and implementation by Secretary of Senate The Secretary of the Senate, with the oversight and approval of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, shall oversee the development and implementation of a comprehensive Senate legislative information system.

(b) Cooperative effort In carrying out this section, the Secretary of the Senate shall consult and work with officers and employees of the House of Representatives. Legislative branch agencies and departments and agencies of the executive branch shall provide cooperation, consultation, and assistance as requested by the Secretary of the Senate to carry out this section.

(c) Funding Any funds that were appropriated under the heading “Secretary of the Senate” for expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate by the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1995, to remain available until September 30, 1998, and that the Secretary determines are not needed for development of a financial management system for the Senate may, with the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, be used to carry out the provisions of this section, and such funds shall be available through September 30, 2000.

(d) Regulations The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

(e) Effective date This section shall be effective for fiscal years beginning on or after October 1, 1996.

*([Pub. L. 104–197, title I, § 8](/us/pl/104/197/tI/s8), Sept. 16, 1996, [110 Stat. 2398](/us/stat/110/2398).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1995, referred to in subsec. (c), is [Pub. L. 103–283](/us/pl/103/283), July 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 1423](/us/stat/108/1423). Provisions under the heading “Secretary of the Senate” in [Pub. L. 103–283](/us/pl/103/283) appear at [108 Stat. 1425](/us/stat/108/1425), and are not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 123e of this title](/us/usc/t2/s123e) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1997, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1997.
