---
title: "§ 14702. Enforcement by the regulatory authority"
identifier: "USC-T49-S14702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section14702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 905](/us/stat/109/905).)"
---
# § 14702. Enforcement by the regulatory authority

##### § 14702. Enforcement by the regulatory authority

(a) In General.— The Secretary or the Board, as applicable, may bring a civil action—

(1) to enforce [section 14103 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s14103); or

(2) to enforce this part, or a regulation or order of the Secretary or Board, as applicable, when violated by a carrier or broker providing transportation or service subject to jurisdiction under subchapter I or III of chapter 135 of this title or by a foreign motor carrier or foreign motor private carrier providing transportation registered under [section 13902 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s13902).

(b) Venue.— In a civil action under subsection (a)(2) of this section—

(1) trial is in the judicial district in which the carrier, foreign motor carrier, foreign motor private carrier, or broker operates;

(2) process may be served without regard to the territorial limits of the district or of the State in which the action is instituted; and

(3) a person participating with a carrier or broker in a violation may be joined in the civil action without regard to the residence of the person.

(c) Standing.— The Board, through its own attorneys, may bring or participate in any civil action involving motor carrier undercharges.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s103), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 905](/us/stat/109/905).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 11702 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s11702) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
