---
title: "§ 552. Discontinuance of aid to navigation"
identifier: "USC-T14-S552"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section552"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7264(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7264/a/1/B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1739](/us/stat/139/1739).)"
---
# § 552. Discontinuance of aid to navigation

##### § 552. Discontinuance of aid to navigation

(a) In General.— Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish a process for the discontinuance of an aid to navigation (other than a seasonal or temporary aid) established, maintained, or operated by the Coast Guard.

(b) Requirement.— The process established under subsection (a) shall include procedures—

(1) to notify the public of any discontinuance of an aid to navigation described in that subsection; and

(2) to safeguard against any discontinuation that may compromise the safety of mariners or the public or hinder maritime operational readiness, including with respect to food security and maritime transportation.

(c) Consultation.— In establishing a process under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with and consider any recommendations of—

(1) the Navigation Safety Advisory Council; and

(2) with respect to aids to navigation established, maintained, or operated by the Coast Guard and located in the coastal or inland waterways of a State, the public of such State and relevant stakeholders, including—

(A) State agencies;

(B) State, local, and Tribal law enforcement, fire, and emergency response agencies;

(C) Indian Tribes;

(D) port;

(E) pilots;

(F) harbormasters;

(G) commercial and recreational fishermen, including fishing associations;

(H) ferry operators;

(I) marina operators;

(J) recreational boaters;

(K) passenger vessel operators; and

(L) coastal residents.

(d) Notification.— Not later than 30 days after the date on which the process is established under subsection (a), the Secretary shall notify the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives of such process.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7264(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7264/a/1/B), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1739](/us/stat/139/1739).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60), which was approved Dec. 18, 2025.
