---
title: "§ 1102. Printing to be authorized by law and necessary to the public business, not in excess of appropriation, and on special requisition filed with the Director of the Government Publishing Office"
identifier: "USC-T44-S1102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section1102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/82/1261); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)"
---
# § 1102. Printing to be authorized by law and necessary to the public business, not in excess of appropriation, and on special requisition filed with the Director of the Government Publishing Office

##### § 1102. Printing to be authorized by law and necessary to the public business, not in excess of appropriation, and on special requisition filed with the Director of the Government Publishing Office

(a) A head of an executive department, or of an independent agency or establishment of the Government may not cause to be printed, and the Director of the Government Publishing Office may not print, a document or matter unless it is authorized by law and necessary to the public business.

(b) Printing may not be done for an executive department, independent agency or establishment in a fiscal year in excess of the amount of the appropriation.

(c) Printing may not be done without a special requisition signed by the chief of the department, independent agency or establishment and filed with the Director of the Government Publishing Office.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1261](/us/stat/82/1261); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., §§ 213, 219 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 89](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s89), 94, [28 Stat. 622](/us/stat/28/622)).

This section incorporates the first paragraph of former section 213 and the first clause of former section 219. The balance of former section 213 will be found in sections 1116, 1302, 1308, 1309, 1310, 1336 of the revision; that of former section 219 in section 1113 of the revision.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(c)(2)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/c/2), substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer” in section catchline.

Subsecs. (a), (c). [Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/c/1), substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer”.
