---
title: "§ 44813. Center of Excellence for Unmanned Aircraft Systems"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44813"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44813"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title X, § 1006(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tX/s1006/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1388](/us/stat/138/1388).)"
---
# § 44813. Center of Excellence for Unmanned Aircraft Systems

##### § 44813. Center of Excellence for Unmanned Aircraft Systems

(a) In General.— The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall continue operation of the Center of Excellence for Unmanned Aircraft Systems (referred to in this section as the “Center”).

(b) Responsibilities.— The Center shall carry out the following responsibilities:

(1) Conduct applied research and training on the safe and efficient integration of unmanned aircraft systems and advanced air mobility into the national airspace system.

(2) Promote and facilitate collaboration among academia, the Federal Aviation Administration, Federal agency partners, and industry stakeholders (including manufacturers, operators, service providers, standards development organizations, carriers, and suppliers), with respect to the safe and efficient integration of unmanned aircraft systems and advanced air mobility into the national airspace system.

(3) Establish goals set to advance technology, improve engineering practices, and facilitate continuing education with respect to the safe and efficient integration of unmanned aircraft systems and advanced air mobility into the national airspace system.

(c) Program Participation.— The Administrator shall ensure the participation in the Center of institutions of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001](/us/usc/t20/s1001))) and research institutions that provide accredited bachelor’s degree programs in aeronautical sciences that provide pathways to commercial pilot certifications and that include a focus on pilot training for women aviators.

(d) Leveraging of Certain Capacity and Capabilities.— The Administrator shall, in carrying out research necessary to validate consensus safety standards accepted pursuant to section 44805, to the maximum extent practicable, leverage the research and testing capacity and capabilities of—

(1) the Center;

(2) the test ranges designated under section 44803;

(3) existing Federal and non-Federal test ranges and testbeds;

(4) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; and

(5) the William J. Hughes Technical Center for Advanced Aerospace.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title X, § 1006(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tX/s1006/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1388](/us/stat/138/1388).)*
