---
title: "§ 1772. International cooperation"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1772"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1772"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–173, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/107/173/tVI/s603), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 564](/us/stat/116/564).)"
---
# § 1772. International cooperation

##### § 1772. International cooperation

(a) International electronic data system The Secretary of State and the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, shall jointly conduct a study of the alternative approaches (including the costs of, and procedures necessary for, each alternative approach) for encouraging or requiring Canada, Mexico, and countries treated as visa waiver program countries under section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality Act [[8 U.S.C. 1187](/us/usc/t8/s1187)] to develop an intergovernmental network of interoperable electronic data systems that—

(1) facilitates real-time access to that country’s law enforcement and intelligence information that is needed by the Department of State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service to screen visa applicants and applicants for admission into the United States to identify aliens who are inadmissible or deportable under the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C. 1101](/us/usc/t8/s1101) et seq.);

(2) is interoperable with the electronic data system implemented under [section 1722 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1722); and

(3) performs in accordance with implementation of the technology standard referred to in [section 1722(a) of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1722/a).

(b) Report Not later than 1 year after May 14, 2002, the Secretary of State and the Attorney General shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth the findings of the study conducted under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 107–173, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/107/173/tVI/s603), May 14, 2002, [116 Stat. 564](/us/stat/116/564).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is [act June 27, 1952, ch. 477](/us/act/1952-06-27/ch477), [66 Stat. 163](/us/stat/66/163), which is classified principally to chapter 12 (§ 1101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1101) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1551).
