---
title: "§ 6603. Sense of Congress on innovation acceleration research"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–69, title I, § 1008](/us/pl/110/69/tI/s1008), Aug. 9, 2007, [121 Stat. 581](/us/stat/121/581); [Pub. L. 114–329, title II, § 204(a)(2)](/us/pl/114/329/tII/s204/a/2), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 2998](/us/stat/130/2998).)"
---
# § 6603. Sense of Congress on innovation acceleration research

##### § 6603. Sense of Congress on innovation acceleration research

(a) Sense of Congress on support and promotion of innovation in the United States It is the sense of Congress that each Federal research agency should strive to support and promote innovation in the United States through high-risk, high-reward basic research projects that—

(1) meet fundamental technological or scientific challenges;

(2) involve multidisciplinary work; and

(3) involve a high degree of novelty.

(b) Sense of Congress on setting annual funding goals for basic research It is the sense of Congress that each Executive agency that funds research in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics should set a goal of allocating an appropriate percentage of the annual basic research budget of such agency to funding high-risk, high-reward basic research projects described in subsection (a).

(c) Definitions In this section:

(1) Basic research The term “basic research” has the meaning given such term in the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A–11.

(2) Executive agency The term “Executive agency” has the meaning given such term in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105).

*([Pub. L. 110–69, title I, § 1008](/us/pl/110/69/tI/s1008), Aug. 9, 2007, [121 Stat. 581](/us/stat/121/581); [Pub. L. 114–329, title II, § 204(a)(2)](/us/pl/114/329/tII/s204/a/2), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 2998](/us/stat/130/2998).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Act, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Act, and not as part of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2017—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 114–329](/us/pl/114/329) redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and struck out former subsec. (c) which related to annual reports to Congress.
