---
title: "§ 224. Bribery in sporting contests"
identifier: "USC-T18-S224"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section224"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 88–316, § 1(a)](/us/pl/88/316/s1/a), June 6, 1964, [78 Stat. 203](/us/stat/78/203); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 224. Bribery in sporting contests

##### § 224. Bribery in sporting contests

(a) Whoever carries into effect, attempts to carry into effect, or conspires with any other person to carry into effect any scheme in commerce to influence, in any way, by bribery any sporting contest, with knowledge that the purpose of such scheme is to influence by bribery that contest, shall be fined under this title, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.

(b) This section shall not be construed as indicating an intent on the part of Congress to occupy the field in which this section operates to the exclusion of a law of any State, territory, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States, and no law of any State, territory, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States, which would be valid in the absence of the section shall be declared invalid, and no local authorities shall be deprived of any jurisdiction over any offense over which they would have jurisdiction in the absence of this section.

(c) As used in this section—

(1) The term “scheme in commerce” means any scheme effectuated in whole or in part through the use in interstate or foreign commerce of any facility for transportation or communication;

(2) The term “sporting contest” means any contest in any sport, between individual contestants or teams of contestants (without regard to the amateur or professional status of the contestants therein), the occurrence of which is publicly announced before its occurrence;

(3) The term “person” means any individual and any partnership, corporation, association, or other entity.

*(Added [Pub. L. 88–316, § 1(a)](/us/pl/88/316/s1/a), June 6, 1964, [78 Stat. 203](/us/stat/78/203); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $10,000”.
