---
title: "§ 4911. House of Representatives Page Board; establishment and purpose"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4911"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4911"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–377, title I, § 127](/us/pl/97/377/tI/s127), Dec. 21, 1982, [96 Stat. 1914](/us/stat/96/1914); [Pub. L. 110–2, § 3](/us/pl/110/2/s3), Feb. 2, 2007, [121 Stat. 5](/us/stat/121/5).)"
---
# § 4911. House of Representatives Page Board; establishment and purpose

##### § 4911. House of Representatives Page Board; establishment and purpose

(a) Until otherwise provided by law, there is hereby established a board to be known as the House of Representatives Page Board to ensure that the page program is conducted in a manner that is consistent with the efficient functioning of the House and the welfare of the pages.

(b) The Page Board shall meet regularly, in accordance with a schedule established jointly by the Speaker and minority leader of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 97–377, title I, § 127](/us/pl/97/377/tI/s127), Dec. 21, 1982, [96 Stat. 1914](/us/stat/96/1914); [Pub. L. 110–2, § 3](/us/pl/110/2/s3), Feb. 2, 2007, [121 Stat. 5](/us/stat/121/5).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 88b–2 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s88b–2) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is based on section 1 of House Resolution No. 611, Ninety-seventh Congress, Nov. 30, 1982, which was enacted into permanent law by [Pub. L. 97–377](/us/pl/97/377).

#### Amendments

2007—[Pub. L. 110–2](/us/pl/110/2) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–2, § 4](/us/pl/110/2/s4), Feb. 2, 2007, [121 Stat. 5](/us/stat/121/5), provided that: “The amendments made by this Act [amending this section and [section 4912 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4912)] shall apply with respect to the portion of the One Hundred Tenth Congress which begins after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 2, 2007] and each succeeding Congress.”

#### Short Title of 2007 Amendment

Pub. L . 110–2, § 1, Feb. 2, 2007, [121 Stat. 4](/us/stat/121/4), provided that: “This Act [see Tables for classification] may be cited as the ‘House Page Board Revision Act of 2007’.”
