---
title: "§ 1862s–6. Presidential awards for excellence in STEM mentoring"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1862s–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1862s–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–329, title III, § 307](/us/pl/114/329/tIII/s307), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 3010](/us/stat/130/3010).)"
---
# § 1862s–6. Presidential awards for excellence in STEM mentoring

##### § 1862s–6. Presidential awards for excellence in STEM mentoring

(a) In general The Director of the Foundation shall continue to administer awards on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy to recognize outstanding mentoring in STEM fields.

(b) Annual award recipients The Director of the Foundation shall provide Congress with a list of award recipients, including the name, institution, and a brief synopsis of the impact of the mentoring efforts.

*([Pub. L. 114–329, title III, § 307](/us/pl/114/329/tIII/s307), Jan. 6, 2017, [130 Stat. 3010](/us/stat/130/3010).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Presidential Awards for Educators and Mentors in Fields Relating to Cybersecurity

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title XCIV, § 9405(d)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tXCIV/s9405/d), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4812](/us/stat/134/4812), provided that: “The Director of the National Science Foundation shall ensure that educators and mentors in fields relating to cybersecurity can be considered for— “(1) Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching made under section 117 of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 ([42 U.S.C. 1881b](/us/usc/t42/s1881b)); and “(2) Presidential Awards for Excellence in STEM Mentoring administered under section 307 of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act ([42 U.S.C. 1862s–6](/us/usc/t42/s1862s–6)).”

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 114–329](/us/pl/114/329/s2), set out as a note under [section 1862s of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1862s).
