---
title: "§ 4064. Termination of relief authority"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4064"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4064"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 314](/us/pl/109/53/tIII/s314), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 492](/us/stat/119/492).)"
---
# § 4064. Termination of relief authority

##### § 4064. Termination of relief authority

(a) General rule Subject to subsection (b), no import relief may be provided under this part after the date that is 10 years after the date on which the Agreement enters into force.

(b) Exception If an article for which relief is provided under this part is an article for which the period for tariff elimination, set out in the Schedule of the United States to Annex 3.3 of the Agreement, is greater than 10 years, no relief under this part may be provided for that article after the date on which that period ends.

*([Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 314](/us/pl/109/53/tIII/s314), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 492](/us/stat/119/492).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107/d), see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 311–316) of title III of [Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 488](/us/stat/119/488), which enacted this part and amended [section 2252 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2252). For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107), set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4001).
