---
title: "§ 1203. Regulars and members on active duty for more than 30 days: separation"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1203"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1203"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 92](/us/stat/70A/92); [Pub. L. 85–861, § 1(28)(A)](/us/pl/85/861/s1/28/A), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1451](/us/stat/72/1451); [Pub. L. 87–651, title I, § 107(a)](/us/pl/87/651/tI/s107/a), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 508](/us/stat/76/508); [Pub. L. 95–377, § 3(2)](/us/pl/95/377/s3/2), (3), Sept. 19, 1978, [92 Stat. 719](/us/stat/92/719), 720; [Pub. L. 96–343, § 10(c)(2)](/us/pl/96/343/s10/c/2), (3), Sept. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 1129](/us/s"
---
# § 1203. Regulars and members on active duty for more than 30 days: separation

##### § 1203. Regulars and members on active duty for more than 30 days: separation

(a) Separation.— Upon a determination by the Secretary concerned that a member described in [section 1201(c) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1201/c) is unfit to perform the duties of the member’s office, grade, rank, or rating because of physical disability incurred while entitled to basic pay or while absent as described in [section 1201(c)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1201/c/3), the member may be separated from the member’s armed force, with severance pay computed under [section 1212 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1212), if the Secretary also makes the determinations with respect to the member and that disability specified in subsection (b).

(b) Required Determinations of Disability.— Determinations referred to in subsection (a) are determinations by the Secretary that—

However, if the member is eligible for transfer to the inactive status list under [section 1209 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1209), and so elects, he shall be transferred to that list instead of being separated.

(1) the member has less than 20 years of service computed under [section 1208 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1208);

(2) the disability is not the result of the member’s intentional misconduct or willful neglect, and was not incurred during a period of unauthorized absence;

(3) based upon accepted medical principles, the disability is or may be of a permanent nature; and

(4) either—

(A) the disability is less than 30 percent under the standard schedule of rating disabilities in use by the Department of Veterans Affairs at the time of the determination, and the disability was (i) the proximate result of performing active duty, (ii) incurred in line of duty in time of war or national emergency, or (iii) incurred in line of duty after September 14, 1978;

(B) the disability is less than 30 percent under the standard schedule of rating disabilities in use by the Department of Veterans Affairs at the time of the determination, the disability was not noted at the time of the member’s entrance on active duty (unless clear and unmistakable evidence demonstrates that the disability existed before the member’s entrance on active duty and was not aggravated by active military service), or

(C) the disability is at least 30 percent under the standard schedule of rating disabilities in use by the Department of Veterans Affairs at the time of the determination, the disability was neither (i) the proximate result of performing active duty, (ii) incurred in line of duty in time of war or national emergency, nor (iii) incurred in line of duty after September 14, 1978, and the member has less than eight years of service computed under [section 1208 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1208) on the date when he would otherwise be retired under [section 1201 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1201) or placed on the temporary disability retired list under [section 1202 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1202).

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 92](/us/stat/70A/92); [Pub. L. 85–861, § 1(28)(A)](/us/pl/85/861/s1/28/A), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1451](/us/stat/72/1451); [Pub. L. 87–651, title I, § 107(a)](/us/pl/87/651/tI/s107/a), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 508](/us/stat/76/508); [Pub. L. 95–377, § 3(2)](/us/pl/95/377/s3/2), (3), Sept. 19, 1978, [92 Stat. 719](/us/stat/92/719), 720; [Pub. L. 96–343, § 10(c)(2)](/us/pl/96/343/s10/c/2), (3), Sept. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 1129](/us/stat/94/1129); [Pub. L. 96–513, title I, § 117](/us/pl/96/513/tI/s117), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2878](/us/stat/94/2878); [Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XVI, § 1621(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/189/dA/tXVI/s1621/a/1), Nov. 29, 1989, [103 Stat. 1602](/us/stat/103/1602); [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1671(c)(6)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1671/c/6), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 3014](/us/stat/108/3014); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title V, § 572(c)](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tV/s572/c), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2533](/us/stat/110/2533); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title XVI, § 1641(b)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tXVI/s1641/b), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 465](/us/stat/122/465); [Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417), [div. A], title VII, § 727(b), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4510](/us/stat/122/4510); [Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, § 1075(b)(19)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tX/s1075/b/19), (e)(12), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4370](/us/stat/124/4370), 4375.)*

To state fully in the revised section the rule contained in 37:272(a) (2d proviso) and 272(b) (2d and last provisos), the provisions of 37:272(a) (less clause (5), and less 1st proviso), 272(b) (less clause (5), and less 1st proviso) and 272(f) (less applicability to 37:272(c) and (e)), also contained in [section 1201 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1201), are repeated. The words “the member may be separated” are substituted for the words “the member concerned shall not be eligible for any disability retirement provided in this section, but may be separated for physical disability,” in 37:272(a) (2d proviso) and 37:272(b) (2d proviso).

Clause (1) is inserted for clarity, since a member who had over 20 years of service would qualify under section 1201 or 1202 of this title.

Clause (4)(A) is substituted for 37:272(a) (1st 20 words of 2d proviso).

Clause (4)(B) is substituted for 37:272(b) (lst 20 words of 2d proviso).

Clause (4)(C) is substituted for 37:272(b) (last proviso).

The last sentence of the revised section, relating to transfer to the inactive status list, is inserted for clarity because of [section 1209 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1209).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1956 Act |  |  |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1203 | 37:272(a) (2d proviso).37:272(b) (2d and last provisos). | Oct. 12, 1949, ch. 681, § 402(a) (2d proviso), (b) (2d and last provisos), 63 Stat. 816, 817. |

The amendment reflects the [Act of April 23, 1956, ch. 209](/us/act/1956-04-23/ch209) (70 Stat 115). (See opinion of Comp. Gen., B–130269, March 18, 1957.)

| 1958 Act |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1203 | [No source]. | [No source]. |

#### 1962 Act

The changes correct typographical errors.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2011—Subsec. (b)(4)(B). [Pub. L. 111–383, § 1075(e)(12)](/us/pl/111/383/s1075/e/12), made technical amendment to directory language of [Pub. L. 110–417, § 727(b)(2)](/us/pl/110/417/s727/b/2). See 2008 Amendment note below.

[Pub. L. 111–383, § 1075(b)(19)](/us/pl/111/383/s1075/b/19), substituted “determination,” for “determination,,”.

2008—Subsec. (b)(4)(B). [Pub. L. 110–417, § 727(b)(2)](/us/pl/110/417/s727/b/2), as amended by [Pub. L. 111–383, § 1075(e)(12)](/us/pl/111/383/s1075/e/12), substituted “(unless clear and unmistakable evidence demonstrates that the disability existed before the member’s entrance on active duty and was not aggravated by active military service)” for “(unless evidence or medical judgment is such to warrant a finding that the disability existed before the member’s entrance on active duty)”.

[Pub. L. 110–417, § 727(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/417/s727/b/1), struck out “the member has six months or more of active military service, and” before “the disability was not noted”.

[Pub. L. 110–181](/us/pl/110/181) substituted “, the member has six months or more of active military service, and the disability was not noted at the time of the member’s entrance on active duty (unless evidence or medical judgment is such to warrant a finding that the disability existed before the member’s entrance on active duty)” for “and the member has at least eight years of service computed under [section 1208 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1208)”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) added subsec. (a), designated existing provisions as subsec. (b), and substituted introductory provisions of subsec. (b) for “Upon a determination by the Secretary concerned that a member of a regular component of the armed forces entitled to basic pay, or any other member of the armed forces entitled to basic pay who has been called or ordered to active duty (other than for training under [section 10148(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10148/a)) for a period of more than 30 days, is unfit to perform the duties of his office, grade, rank, or rating because of physical disability incurred while entitled to basic pay, the member may be separated from his armed force, with severance pay computed under [section 1212 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1212), if the Secretary also determines that—”.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337) substituted “10148(a)” for “270(b)” in introductory provisions.

1989—Par. (4)(A) to (C). [Pub. L. 101–189](/us/pl/101/189) substituted “Department of Veterans Affairs” for “Veterans’ Administration” wherever appearing.

1980—Par. (4)(A)(iii). [Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513) substituted “after September 14, 1978” for “during the period beginning on September 15, 1978, and ending on September 30, 1982, except that the condition provided for in this item shall not be effective during such period unless the President determines that such condition should be effective during such period and issues an Executive order to that effect”.

[Pub. L. 96–343, § 10(c)(2)](/us/pl/96/343/s10/c/2), added cl. (iii).

Par. (4)(C). [Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513) substituted “after September 14, 1978” for “during the period beginning on September 15, 1978, and ending on September 30, 1982, except that the condition provided for in this item shall not be effective during such period unless the President determines that such condition should be effective during such period and issues an Executive order to that effect” in cl. (iii).

[Pub. L. 96–343, § 10(c)(3)](/us/pl/96/343/s10/c/3), substituted “(i) the proximate result of performing active duty, (ii) incurred in line of duty in time of war or national emergency, nor (iii) incurred in line of duty during the period beginning on September 15, 1978, and ending on September 30, 1982, except that the condition provided for in this item shall not be effective during such period unless the President determines that such condition should be effective during such period and issues an Executive order to that effect” for “the proximate result of performing active duty nor incurred in line of duty in time of war or national emergency”.

1978—Par. (4)(A)(iii). [Pub. L. 95–377, § 3(2)](/us/pl/95/377/s3/2), added cl. (iii) which provided additional conditions, effective on Presidential determination, that the disability was incurred in the line of duty during Sept. 15, 1978, through Sept. 30, 1979, and which terminated on Sept. 30, 1979. See Effective and Termination Dates of 1978 Amendment note set out under this section.

Par. (4)(C). [Pub. L. 95–377, § 3(3)](/us/pl/95/377/s3/3), designated existing conditions of performing active duty and incurred in line of duty in time of war or national emergency as cls. (i) and (ii) and added cl. (iii) providing additional condition, effective on Presidential determination, that the disability was incurred in line of duty during Sept. 15, 1978, through Sept. 30, 1979, and terminated on Sept. 30, 1979. See Effective and Termination Dates of 1978 Amendment note set out under this section.

1962—[Pub. L. 87–651](/us/pl/87/651) substituted “training under [section 270(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s270/b))” for “training) under [section 270(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s270/b).”

1958—[Pub. L. 85–861](/us/pl/85/861) inserted “under [section 270(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s270/b)” after “(other than for training)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2011 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, § 1075(e)(12)](/us/pl/111/383/dA/tX/s1075/e/12), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4375](/us/stat/124/4375), provided that the amendment by section 1075(e)(12) is effective as of Oct. 14, 2008, and as if included in [Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417) as enacted.

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) effective Sept. 23, 1996, and applicable with respect to physical disabilities incurred on or after such date, see [section 572(d) of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s572/d), set out as a note under [section 1201 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1201).

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337) effective Dec. 1, 1994, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1691 of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513) effective Sept. 15, 1981, but the authority to prescribe regulations under the amendment by [Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513) effective on Dec. 12, 1980, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513/s701), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s101).

#### Effective and Termination Dates of 1978 Amendment

[Pub. L. 95–377, § 3](/us/pl/95/377/s3), Sept. 19, 1978, [92 Stat. 719](/us/stat/92/719), provided that the amendment made by that section is effective only for the period beginning Sept. 15, 1978, and ending Sept. 30, 1979.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Suspension of Certain Promotion and Disability Separation Limitations

For provisions relating to the suspension of certain promotion and disability separation limitations, see Ex. Ord. No. 12239, Sept. 21, 1980, 45 F.R. 62967, set out as a note under [section 1201 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1201).
