---
title: "§ 15304. Administrative powers and expenses"
identifier: "USC-T40-S15304"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section15304"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/122/1471), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2233; amended [Pub. L. 115–334, title VI, § 6304(a)](/us/pl/115/334/tVI/s6304/a), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4749](/us/stat/132/4749); [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2242(c)](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2242/c), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Sta"
---
# § 15304. Administrative powers and expenses

##### § 15304. Administrative powers and expenses

(a) Powers.— In carrying out its duties under this subtitle, a Commission may—

(1) hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, receive such evidence, and print or otherwise reproduce and distribute a description of the proceedings and reports on actions by the Commission as the Commission considers appropriate;

(2) authorize, through the Federal or State Cochairperson or any other member of the Commission designated by the Commission, the administration of oaths if the Commission determines that testimony should be taken or evidence received under oath;

(3) request from any Federal, State, or local agency such information as may be available to or procurable by the agency that may be of use to the Commission in carrying out the duties of the Commission;

(4) adopt, amend, and repeal bylaws and rules governing the conduct of business and the performance of duties by the Commission;

(5) request the head of any Federal agency, State agency, or local government to detail to the Commission such personnel as the Commission requires to carry out its duties, each such detail to be without loss of seniority, pay, or other employee status, which may be done without a requirement for the Commission to reimburse the agency or local government;

(6) provide for coverage of Commission employees in a suitable retirement and employee benefit system by making arrangements or entering into contracts with any participating State government or otherwise providing retirement and other employee coverage;

(7) accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations or services or real, personal, tangible, or intangible property;

(8) collect fees for services provided and retain and expend such fees;

(9) enter into and perform such contracts, cooperative agreements, or other transactions as are necessary to carry out Commission duties, including any contracts or cooperative agreements with a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, a State (including a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the State), or a person, firm, association, or corporation; and

(10) establish and maintain a central office at such location in its region as the Commission may select.

(b) Federal Agency Cooperation.— A Federal agency shall—

(1) cooperate with a Commission; and

(2) provide, to the extent practicable, on request of the Federal Cochairperson, appropriate assistance in carrying out this subtitle, in accordance with applicable Federal laws (including regulations).

(c) Administrative Expenses.—

(1) In general.— Subject to paragraph (2), the administrative expenses of a Commission shall be paid—

(A) by the Federal Government, in an amount equal to 50 percent of the administrative expenses of the Commission; and

(B) by the States participating in the Commission, in an amount equal to 50 percent of the administrative expenses.

(2) Expenses of the federal cochairperson.— All expenses of the Federal Cochairperson, including expenses of the alternate and staff of the Federal Cochairperson, shall be paid by the Federal Government.

(3) State share.—

(A) In general.— Subject to subparagraph (B), the share of administrative expenses of a Commission to be paid by each State of the Commission shall be determined by a majority vote of the State members of the Commission.

(B) No federal participation.— The Federal Cochairperson shall not participate or vote in any decision under subparagraph (A).

(C) Delinquent states.— During any period in which a State is more than 1 year delinquent in payment of the State’s share of administrative expenses of the Commission under this subsection—

(i) no assistance under this subtitle shall be provided to the State (including assistance to a political subdivision or a resident of the State) for any project not approved as of the date of the commencement of the delinquency; and

(ii) no member of the Commission from the State shall participate or vote in any action by the Commission.

(4) Effect on assistance.— A State’s share of administrative expenses of a Commission under this subsection shall not be taken into consideration when determining the amount of assistance provided to the State under this subtitle.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, § 14217(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/234/tXIV/s14217/a/2), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/122/1471), and [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title XIV, § 14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2233; amended [Pub. L. 115–334, title VI, § 6304(a)](/us/pl/115/334/tVI/s6304/a), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4749](/us/stat/132/4749); [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2242(c)](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2242/c), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3203](/us/stat/138/3203).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2242(c)(1)](/us/pl/118/272/s2242/c/1), inserted “, which may be done without a requirement for the Commission to reimburse the agency or local government” after “status”.

Subsec. (a)(8), (9). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2242(c)(2)](/us/pl/118/272/s2242/c/2), (3), added par. (8) and redesignated former par. (8) as (9). Former par. (9) redesignated (10).

Subsec. (a)(10). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2242(c)(2)](/us/pl/118/272/s2242/c/2), (4), redesignated par. (9) as (10) and struck out “maintain a government relations office in the District of Columbia and” before “establish and maintain a central office”.

2018—Subsec. (c)(3)(A). [Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334) substituted “majority” for “unanimous”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after June 18, 2008, see [section 14217(d) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s14217/d), set out as a note under [section 15101 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s15101).
