---
title: "§ 17124. Advisory Committee on Energy Efficiency Finance"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17124"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17124"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 495](/us/pl/110/140/tIV/s495), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/121/1654).)"
---
# § 17124. Advisory Committee on Energy Efficiency Finance

##### § 17124. Advisory Committee on Energy Efficiency Finance

(a) Establishment The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, shall establish an Advisory Committee on Energy Efficiency Finance to provide advice and recommendations to the Department on energy efficiency finance and investment issues, options, ideas, and trends, and to assist the energy community in identifying practical ways of lowering costs and increasing investments in energy efficiency technologies.

(b) Membership The advisory committee established under this section shall have a balanced membership that shall include members with expertise in—

(1) availability of seed capital;

(2) availability of venture capital;

(3) availability of other sources of private equity;

(4) investment banking with respect to corporate finance;

(5) investment banking with respect to mergers and acquisitions;

(6) equity capital markets;

(7) debt capital markets;

(8) research analysis;

(9) sales and trading;

(10) commercial lending; and

(11) residential lending.

(c) Termination The Advisory Committee on Energy Efficiency Finance shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after December 19, 2007.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to the Secretary for carrying out this section.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 495](/us/pl/110/140/tIV/s495), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/121/1654).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
