---
title: "§ 16254. Regional bioeconomy development grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16254"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16254"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 945](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s945), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 882](/us/stat/119/882).)"
---
# § 16254. Regional bioeconomy development grants

##### § 16254. Regional bioeconomy development grants

(a) In general Using amounts made available under subsection (g), the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) shall make available on a competitive basis grants to eligible entities described in subsection (b) for the purposes described in subsection (c).

(b) Eligible entities An entity eligible for a grant under this section is any regional bioeconomy development association, agricultural or energy trade association, or Land Grant institution that—

(1) proposes to use the grant for the purposes described in subsection (c); and

(2) has not previously received a grant under this section.

(c) Regional bioeconomy development association grant purposes A grant made under this section shall be used to support and promote the growth and development of the bioeconomy within the region served by the eligible entity, through coordination, education, outreach, and other endeavors by the eligible entity.

(d) Matching funds

(1) In general Grant recipients shall provide matching non-Federal funds equal to the amount of the grant received.

(2) Expenditure Matching funds shall be expended in advance of grant funding, so that for every dollar of grant that is advanced, an equal amount of matching funds shall have been funded prior to submitting the request for reimbursement.

(e) Administration The Secretary shall establish such administrative requirements for grants under this section, including requirements for applications for the grants, as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(f) Amount A grant made under this section shall not exceed $500,000.

(g) Authorizations of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to make grants under this section—

(1) $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2006; and

(2) such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2015.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 945](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s945), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 882](/us/stat/119/882).)*
