---
title: "§ 1466. Appeals relating to offshore mineral development"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1466"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1466"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 382](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s382), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 738](/us/stat/119/738).)"
---
# § 1466. Appeals relating to offshore mineral development

##### § 1466. Appeals relating to offshore mineral development

For any Federal administrative agency proceeding that is an appeal or review under section 319 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 ([16 U.S.C. 1465](/us/usc/t16/s1465)) related to any Federal authorization for the permitting, approval, or other authorization of an energy project, the lead Federal permitting agency for the project shall, with the cooperation of Federal and State administrative agencies, maintain a consolidated record of all decisions made or actions taken by the lead agency or by another Federal or State administrative agency or officer. Such record shall be the initial record for appeals or reviews under that Act, provided that the record may be supplemented as expressly provided pursuant to section 319 of that Act.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 382](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s382), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 738](/us/stat/119/738).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, referred to in text, is title III of [Pub. L. 89–454](/us/pl/89/454), as added by [Pub. L. 92–583](/us/pl/92/583), Oct. 27, 1972, [86 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/86/1280), which is classified generally to this chapter (§ 1451 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1451) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and not as part of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 which comprises this chapter.
