---
title: "§ 60504. Reciprocal privileges for recreational vessels"
identifier: "USC-T46-S60504"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section60504"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 9(b)](/us/pl/109/304/s9/b), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1680](/us/stat/120/1680).)"
---
# § 60504. Reciprocal privileges for recreational vessels

##### § 60504. Reciprocal privileges for recreational vessels

When the President is satisfied that yachts owned by residents of the United States and used only for pleasure are allowed to arrive at, depart from, and cruise in the waters of a foreign port without entering, clearing, or paying any duties or fees (including cruising license fees), the Secretary of Homeland Security may allow yachts from that foreign port used only for pleasure to arrive at and depart from the ports of the United States and to cruise in the waters of the United States without paying any duties or fees. However, the Secretary may require foreign yachts to obtain a license to cruise in the waters of the United States. The license shall be in the form prescribed by the Secretary and contain limitations about length of time, direction, place of cruising and action, and other matters the Secretary considers appropriate. The license shall be issued without cost to the yacht.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 9(b)](/us/pl/109/304/s9/b), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1680](/us/stat/120/1680).)*

The Secretary of Homeland Security is substituted for the Commissioner of Customs because the functions of the Customs Service and of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto were transferred to the Secretary of Homeland Security by section 403(1) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ([Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296), [116 Stat. 2178](/us/stat/116/2178)). The functions of the Commissioner of Customs previously were vested in the Secretary of the Treasury under [section 321(c) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s321/c). For prior related transfers of functions, see the transfer of functions note under 46 App. U.S.C. 104.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 60503 | 46 App.:104. | May 28, 1908, ch. 212, § 5, 35 Stat. 425; Aug. 5, 1909, ch. 6, § 37 (3d par.), 36 Stat. 112; June 26, 1948, ch. 673, 62 Stat. 1051. |
