---
title: "§ 2278. Consistency with international obligations of United States"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2278"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2278"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1999T](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1999T), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3928](/us/stat/104/3928).)"
---
# § 2278. Consistency with international obligations of United States

##### § 2278. Consistency with international obligations of United States

(a) In general Prior to the promulgation of, or amendment to, any order or plan under a research and promotion program relating to research and promotion of any agricultural commodity or product, after November 28, 1990, where such order or plan would provide for an assessment on imports, the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with the United States Trade Representative regarding the consistency of the provisions of the order or plan with the international obligations of the United States.

(b) Compliance with U.S. international obligations The Secretary of Agriculture shall take all steps necessary and appropriate to ensure that any order or plan or amendment to such order or plan, and the implementation and enforcement of any order or plan or amendment to such order or plan, or program as it relates to imports is nondiscriminatory and in compliance with the international obligations of the United States, as interpreted by the United States Trade Representative.

(c) Construction Nothing in this section shall be construed as providing for a cause of action under this section.

*([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1999T](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1999T), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3928](/us/stat/104/3928).)*
