---
title: "§ 3342. Security clearances for transition team members"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3342"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3342"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7601(c)](/us/pl/108/458/tVII/s7601/c), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3857](/us/stat/118/3857); [Pub. L. 111–283, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/111/283/s2/c/1), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3048](/us/stat/124/3048).)"
---
# § 3342. Security clearances for transition team members

##### § 3342. Security clearances for transition team members

(1) Definition In this section, the term “eligible candidate” has the meaning given such term by section 3(h)(4) of the Presidential Transition Act of 1963 ([3 U.S.C. 102](/us/usc/t3/s102) note).

(2) In general Each eligible candidate for President may submit, before the date of the general election, requests for security clearances for prospective transition team members who will have a need for access to classified information to carry out their responsibilities as members of the President-elect’s transition team.

(3) Completion date Necessary background investigations and eligibility determinations to permit appropriate prospective transition team members to have access to classified information shall be completed, to the fullest extent practicable, by the day after the date of the general election.

*([Pub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7601(c)](/us/pl/108/458/tVII/s7601/c), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3857](/us/stat/118/3857); [Pub. L. 111–283, § 2(c)(1)](/us/pl/111/283/s2/c/1), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3048](/us/stat/124/3048).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This section, referred to in par. (1), is [section 7601 of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s7601). See Codification note below.

Section 3(h)(4) of the Presidential Transition Act of 1963, referred to in par. (1), is [section 3(h)(4) of Pub. L. 88–277](/us/pl/88/277/s3/h/4), which is set out in a note under [section 102 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s102), The President.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 435b of this title](/us/usc/t50/s435b) prior to editorial reclassification as this section.

Section is comprised of subsec. (c) of [section 7601 of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s7601). Subsec. (a) of section 7601 amended provisions set out as a note under [section 102 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s102), The President, subsec. (b) of section 7601 is not classified to the Code, and subsec. (d) of section 7601 is set out as a note under [section 102 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s102).

#### Amendments

2010—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 111–283, § 2(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/111/283/s2/c/1/A), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: “In this section, the term ‘major party’ shall have the meaning given under [section 9002(6) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s9002/6).”

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 111–283, § 2(c)(1)(B)](/us/pl/111/283/s2/c/1/B), substituted “eligible candidate” for “major party candidate”.
