---
title: "§ 21301. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–22, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/114/22/tIV/s402), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 256](/us/stat/129/256).)"
---
# § 21301. Definitions

##### § 21301. Definitions

(1) Covered formula grant The term “covered formula grant” means a grant under—

(A) part T of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ([42 U.S.C. 3796gg](/us/usc/t42/s3796gg) et seq.) 11 See References in Text note below. (commonly referred to as the “STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program”); or

(B) [section 12511 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12511) (commonly referred to as the “Sexual Assault Services Program”).

(2) Termination

(A) In general The term “termination” means, when used with respect to parental rights, a complete and final termination of the parent’s right to custody of, guardianship of, visitation with, access to, and inheritance from a child.

(B) Rule of construction Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require a State, in order to receive an increase in the amount provided to the State under the covered formula grants under this chapter, to have in place a law that terminates any obligation of a person who fathered a child through rape to support the child.

*([Pub. L. 114–22, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/114/22/tIV/s402), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 256](/us/stat/129/256).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, referred to in par. (1)(A), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197). Part T of title I of the Act was classified generally to subchapter XII–H (§ 3796gg et seq.) of chapter 46 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as subchapter XIX (§ 10441 et seq.) of chapter 101 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14043h of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14043h), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of title IV of [Pub. L. 114–22](/us/pl/114/22), which is classified to this chapter, as the “Rape Survivor Child Custody Act”, see [section 401 of Pub. L. 114–22](/us/pl/114/22/s401), set out as a Short Title of 2015 Act note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
