---
title: "§ 280. Representation in South Pacific Commission; appointment of commissioners and alternates"
identifier: "USC-T22-S280"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section280"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Jan. 28, 1948, ch. 38, § 1](/us/act/1948-01-28/ch38/s1), [62 Stat. 15](/us/stat/62/15).)"
---
# § 280. Representation in South Pacific Commission; appointment of commissioners and alternates

##### § 280. Representation in South Pacific Commission; appointment of commissioners and alternates

The President is hereby authorized to accept membership for the United States in the South Pacific Commission, created by the Agreement Establishing the South Pacific Commission, signed on February 6, 1947, at Canberra, Australia, by delegates representing the Governments of Australia, the French Republic, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, New Zealand, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America, and to appoint the United States Commissioners, and their alternates, thereto.

*([Jan. 28, 1948, ch. 38, § 1](/us/act/1948-01-28/ch38/s1), [62 Stat. 15](/us/stat/62/15).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Purpose of Commission

[Act Jan. 28, 1948, ch. 38](/us/act/1948-01-28/ch38), [62 Stat. 15](/us/stat/62/15), provided that: “Whereas delegates representing the Governments of Australia, the French Republic, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, New Zealand, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America attended the South Seas Conference held at Canberra, Australia, and signed an ‘Agreement Establishing the South Pacific Commission’ on February 6, 1947; and “Whereas the purpose of the South Pacific Commission is to encourage and strengthen international cooperation in promoting the economic and social welfare and advancement of the non-self-governing territories in the South Pacific in accordance with the principles set forth in Chapter XI of the Charter of the United Nations, thereby contributing to the maintenance of international peace and security: Therefore be it”.
