---
title: "§ 3310. Annual report on United States security arrangements and commitments with other nations"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XIV, § 1457](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXIV/s1457), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1696](/us/stat/104/1696); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, § 1502(c)(4)(C)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXV/s1502/c/4/C), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 507](/us/stat/110/507); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, § 1067(10)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tX/s1067/10), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 774](/us/stat/113/774).)"
---
# § 3310. Annual report on United States security arrangements and commitments with other nations

##### § 3310. Annual report on United States security arrangements and commitments with other nations

(a) Report requirements The President shall submit to the congressional committees specified in subsection (d) each year a report (in both classified and unclassified form) on United States security arrangements with, and commitments to, other nations.

(b) Matters to be included The President shall include in each such report the following:

(1) A description of—

(A) each security arrangement with, or commitment to, other nations, whether based upon (i) a formal document (including a mutual defense treaty, a pre-positioning arrangement or agreement, or an access agreement), or (ii) an expressed policy; and

(B) the historical origins of each such arrangement or commitment.

(2) An evaluation of the ability of the United States to meet its commitments based on the projected reductions in the defense structure of the United States.

(3) A plan for meeting each of those commitments with the force structure projected for the future.

(4) An assessment of the need to continue, modify, or discontinue each of those arrangements and commitments in view of the changing international security situation.

(c) Deadline for report The President shall submit the report required by subsection (a) not later than February 1 of each year.

(d) Specified congressional committees The congressional committees referred to in subsection (a) are the following:

(1) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.

(2) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XIV, § 1457](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXIV/s1457), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1696](/us/stat/104/1696); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, § 1502(c)(4)(C)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tXV/s1502/c/4/C), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 507](/us/stat/110/507); [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, § 1067(10)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tX/s1067/10), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 774](/us/stat/113/774).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 404c of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404c) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1999—Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65) substituted “Committee on Armed Services” for “Committee on National Security”.

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–106, § 1502(c)(4)(C)(i)](/us/pl/104/106/s1502/c/4/C/i), substituted “shall submit to the congressional committees specified in subsection (d) each year” for “shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services and on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Armed Services and Foreign Relations of the Senate each year”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 104–106, § 1502(c)(4)(C)(ii)](/us/pl/104/106/s1502/c/4/C/ii), substituted “The President” for “(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the President” and struck out par. (2) which read as follows: “In the case of the report required to be submitted in 1991, the evaluation, plan, and assessment referred to in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (b) may be submitted not later than May 1, 1991.”

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 104–106, § 1502(c)(4)(C)(iii)](/us/pl/104/106/s1502/c/4/C/iii), added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.
