---
title: "§ 20102. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T36-S20102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section20102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1284](/us/stat/112/1284).)"
---
# § 20102. Purposes

##### § 20102. Purposes

(1) to receive and maintain one or more funds and to use any part of the principal or interest only for charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes either directly or by contributing to organizations authorized to carry on similar activities;

(2) to honor farmers, farm women, farm leaders, teachers, scientists, inventors, governmental leaders, and other individuals who have helped make this Nation great by their outstanding contributions to the establishment, development, advancement, or improvement of agriculture in the United States;

(3) to perpetuate the memory of those individuals and record their contributions and achievements by the erection and maintenance of buildings and monuments as may be appropriate as a lasting memorial;

(4) to promote a greater sense of appreciation of the dignity and importance of agriculture, historically carried out through owner-operated farms, and the part it has played in developing those social, economic, and spiritual values which are essential in maintaining the free and democratic institutions of our Republic;

(5) to establish and maintain a library and museum for the collection and preservation for posterity of agricultural tools, implements, machines, vehicles, pictures, paintings, books, papers, documents, data, relics, mementos, artifacts, and other items relating to agriculture;

(6) to cooperate with other organizations interested in similar projects; and

(7) to engage in other activities appropriate to carry out its purposes.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1284](/us/stat/112/1284).)*

In clause (1), the words “and apply the whole or”, “therefrom”, “thereof”, and “duly” and 36:973(A) (1st sentence) are omitted as unnecessary. The text of 36:973(A) (last sentence) is omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (2), the words “of America” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (3), the words “those individuals” are substituted for “such persons” for clarity. The word “edifices” is omitted as included in “buildings”. The word “deemed” is omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (4), the word “promote” is substituted for “foster, promote, and encourage” to eliminate redundant words.

In clause (7), the words “other activities appropriate to carry out its purposes” are substituted for “any and all activities incidental thereto or necessary, suitable, or proper for the accomplishment of any of the aforementioned purposes” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20102 | 36:973(A) (1st sentence words before proviso, last sentence), (B)–(G). | Aug. 31, 1960, Pub. L. 86–680, § 3(A) (1st sentence words before proviso, last sentence), (B)–(G), 74 Stat. 573. |
