---
title: "§ 1401. Funds appropriated in satisfaction of judgments of Indian Claims Commission or United States Court of Federal Claims"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–134, § 1](/us/pl/93/134/s1), Oct. 19, 1973, [87 Stat. 466](/us/stat/87/466); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 160(a)(1)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s160/a/1), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 48](/us/stat/96/48); [Pub. L. 100–153, § 4](/us/pl/100/153/s4), Nov. 5, 1987, [101 Stat. 886](/us/stat/101/886); [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516).)"
---
# § 1401. Funds appropriated in satisfaction of judgments of Indian Claims Commission or United States Court of Federal Claims

##### § 1401. Funds appropriated in satisfaction of judgments of Indian Claims Commission or United States Court of Federal Claims

(a) Use and distribution Notwithstanding any other law, all use or distribution of funds appropriated in satisfaction of a judgment of the Indian Claims Commission or the United States Court of Federal Claims in favor of any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community (hereinafter referred to as “Indian tribe”), together with any investment income earned thereon, after payment of attorney fees and litigation expenses, shall be made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

(b) Amounts remaining to be held in trust unless otherwise provided Except as provided in sections 164 and 165 of this title, amounts which the Secretary of the Interior has remaining after execution of either a plan under this chapter, or another Act enacted heretofore or hereafter providing for the use or distribution of amounts awarded in satisfaction of a judgment in favor of an Indian tribe or tribes, together with any investment income earned thereon and after payment of attorney fees and litigation expenses, shall be held in trust by the Secretary for the tribe or tribes involved if the plan or Act does not otherwise provide for the use of such amounts.

(c) Short title This chapter may be cited as the “Indian Tribal Judgment Funds Use or Distribution Act”.

*([Pub. L. 93–134, § 1](/us/pl/93/134/s1), Oct. 19, 1973, [87 Stat. 466](/us/stat/87/466); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 160(a)(1)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s160/a/1), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 48](/us/stat/96/48); [Pub. L. 100–153, § 4](/us/pl/100/153/s4), Nov. 5, 1987, [101 Stat. 886](/us/stat/101/886); [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Claims Commission, referred to in text, terminated Sept. 30, 1978. See Codification note set out under former section 70 et seq. of this title.

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) substituted “United States Court of Federal Claims” for “United States Claims Court”.

1987—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 100–153, § 4(1)](/us/pl/100/153/s4/1), (2), designated existing provision as subsec. (a) and substituted “any investment income” for “any interest”.

Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 100–153, § 4(3)](/us/pl/100/153/s4/3), added subsecs. (b) and (c).

1982—[Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) substituted “United States Claims Court” for “Court of Claims”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) effective Oct. 29, 1992, see [section 911 of Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572/s911), set out as a note under [section 171 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s171), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) effective Oct. 1, 1982, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164/s402), set out as a note under [section 171 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s171), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Short Title of 2014 Amendment

[Pub. L. 113–290, § 1](/us/pl/113/290/s1), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3291](/us/stat/128/3291), provided that: “This Act [amending [section 1407 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1407)] may be cited as the ‘Grand Portage Band Per Capita Adjustment Act’.”
