---
title: "§ 5510. Annual report"
identifier: "USC-T38-S5510"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section5510"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 108–454, title V, § 505(a)](/us/pl/108/454/tV/s505/a), Dec. 10, 2004, [118 Stat. 3621](/us/stat/118/3621); amended [Pub. L. 111–275, title X, § 1001](/us/pl/111/275/tX/s1001)(*l*), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2897](/us/stat/124/2897).)"
---
# § 5510. Annual report

##### § 5510. Annual report

(1) The number of beneficiaries in each category (veteran, surviving spouse, child, adult disabled child, or parent).

(2) The types of benefit being paid (compensation, pension, dependency and indemnity compensation, death pension or benefits payable to a disabled child under chapter 18 of this title).

(3) The total annual amounts and average annual amounts of benefits paid to fiduciaries for each category and type of benefit.

(4) The number of fiduciaries who are the spouse, parent, legal custodian, court-appointed fiduciary, institutional fiduciary, custodian in fact, and supervised direct payees.

(5) The number of cases in which the fiduciary was changed by the Secretary because of a finding that benefits had been misused.

(6) How such cases of misuse of benefits were addressed by the Secretary.

(7) The final disposition of such cases of misuse of benefits, including the number and dollar amount of any benefits reissued to beneficiaries.

(8) The number of fiduciary cases referred to the Office of the Inspector General and the nature of the actions taken by the Inspector General.

(9) The total amount of money recovered by the Government in cases arising from the misuse of benefits by a fiduciary.

(10) Such other information as the Secretary considers appropriate.

*(Added [Pub. L. 108–454, title V, § 505(a)](/us/pl/108/454/tV/s505/a), Dec. 10, 2004, [118 Stat. 3621](/us/stat/118/3621); amended [Pub. L. 111–275, title X, § 1001](/us/pl/111/275/tX/s1001)(*l*), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2897](/us/stat/124/2897).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–275, § 1001](/us/pl/111/275/s1001)(*l*)(1), substituted “following:” for “following: —” in introductory provisions.

Par. (9). [Pub. L. 111–275, § 1001](/us/pl/111/275/s1001)(*l*)(2), substituted “Government” for “government”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Dec. 10, 2004, see [section 507(b)(1) of Pub. L. 108–454](/us/pl/108/454/s507/b/1), set out as an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment note under [section 5312 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5312).
