---
title: "§ 10284. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10284"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10284"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1204](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1204), formerly § 1203, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609F](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609F), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2099](/us/stat/98/2099); amended [Pub. L. 99–500, § 101(b) [title II, § 207]](/us/pl/99/500/s101/b/tII/s207), Oct. 18, 1986, [100 Stat. 1783–39](/us/stat/100/1783-39), 1783–56, and [Pub. L. 99–591, § 101(b) [title II, § 207]](/us/pl/99/591/s101/b/tII/s207), Oct. 30, 1986, [100 Stat. 3341–39](/us/stat/100/3341-39), 3341–56; ren"
---
# § 10284. Definitions

##### § 10284. Definitions

(1) “action outside of jurisdiction” means an action, not in the course of any compensated employment involving either the performance of public safety activity or the provision of security services, by a law enforcement officer, firefighter, or member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew that—

(A) was taken in a jurisdiction where—

(i) the law enforcement officer or firefighter then was not authorized to act, in the ordinary course, in an official capacity; or

(ii) the member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew then was not authorized or licensed to act, in the ordinary course, by law or by the applicable agency or entity;

(B) then would have been within the authority and line of duty of—

(i) a law enforcement officer or a firefighter to take, who was authorized to act, in the ordinary course, in an official capacity, in the jurisdiction where the action was taken; or

(ii) a member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew to take, who was authorized or licensed by law and by a pertinent agency or entity to act, in the ordinary course, in the jurisdiction where the action was taken; and

(C) was, in an emergency situation that presented an imminent and significant danger or threat to human life or of serious bodily harm to any individual, taken—

(i) by a law enforcement officer—

(I) to prevent, halt, or respond to the immediate consequences of a crime (including an incident of juvenile delinquency); or

(II) while engaging in a rescue activity or in the provision of emergency medical services;

(ii) by a firefighter—

(I) while engaging in fire suppression; or

(II) while engaging in a rescue activity or in the provision of emergency medical services; or

(iii) by a member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew, while engaging in a rescue activity or in the provision of emergency medical services;

(2) “candidate officer” means an individual who is enrolled or admitted, as a cadet or trainee, in a formal and officially established program of instruction or of training (such as a police or fire academy) that is specifically intended to result upon completion, in the—

(A) commissioning of such individual as a law enforcement officer;

(B) conferral upon such individual of official authority to engage in fire suppression (as an officer or employee of a public fire department or as an officially recognized or designated member of a legally organized volunteer fire department); or

(C) granting to such individual official authorization or license to engage in a rescue activity, or in the provision of emergency medical services, as a member of a rescue squad, or as a member of an ambulance crew that is (or is a part of) the agency or entity that is sponsoring the individual’s enrollment or admission;

(3) “blind” means an individual who has central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with the use of a correcting lens or whose eye is accompanied by a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees;

(4) “catastrophic injury” means an injury, the direct and proximate result of which is to permanently render an individual functionally incapable (including through a directly and proximately resulting neurocognitive disorder), based on the state of medicine on the date on which the claim is determined by the Bureau, of performing work, including sedentary work: Provided, That, if it appears that a claimant may be functionally capable of performing work—

(A) the Bureau shall disregard work where any compensation provided is de minimis, nominal, honorary, or mere reimbursement of incidental expenses, such as—

(i) work that involves ordinary or simple tasks, that because of the claimed disability, the claimant cannot perform without significantly more supervision, accommodation, or assistance than is typically provided to an individual without the claimed disability doing similar work;

(ii) work that involves minimal duties that make few or no demands on the claimant and are of little or no economic value to the employer; or

(iii) work that is performed primarily for therapeutic purposes and aids the claimant in the physical or mental recovery from the claimed disability; and

(B) the claimant shall be presumed, absent clear and convincing medical evidence to the contrary as determined by the Bureau, to be functionally incapable of performing such work if the direct and proximate result of the injury renders the claimant—

(i) blind;

(ii) parapalegic; 11 So in original. Probably should be “paraplegic;”. or

(iii) quadriplegic;

(5) “chaplain” includes any individual serving as an officially recognized or designated member of a legally organized volunteer fire department or legally organized police department, or an officially recognized or designated public employee of a legally organized fire or police department who was responding to a fire, rescue, or police emergency;

(6) “child” means any natural, illegitimate, adopted, or posthumous child or stepchild of a deceased or permanently and totally disabled public safety officer who, at the time of the public safety officer’s death or fatal injury (in connection with any claim predicated upon such death or injury) or the date of the public safety officer’s catastrophic injury or of the final determination by the Bureau of any claim predicated upon such catastrophic injury, is—

(A) 18 years of age or under;

(B) over 18 years of age and a student as defined in [section 8101 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8101); or

(C) over 18 years of age and incapable of self-support because of physical or mental disability;

(7) “firefighter” includes an individual serving as an officially recognized or designated member of a legally organized volunteer fire department, including an individual who, as such a member, engages in scene security or traffic management as the primary or only duty of the individual during emergency response;

(8) “intoxication” means a disturbance of mental or physical faculties resulting from the introduction of alcohol into the body as evidenced by—

or resulting from drugs or other substances in the body;

(A) a post-injury blood alcohol level of .20 per centum or greater; or

(B) a post-injury blood alcohol level of at least .10 per centum but less than .20 per centum unless the Bureau receives convincing evidence that the public safety officer was not acting in an intoxicated manner immediately prior to his fatal or catastrophic injury;

(9) “law enforcement officer” means an individual involved in crime and juvenile delinquency control or reduction, or enforcement of the criminal laws (including juvenile delinquency), including, but not limited to, police, corrections, probation, parole, and judicial officers;

(10) “member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew” means an officially recognized or designated employee or volunteer member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew (including a ground or air ambulance service) that—

(A) is a public agency; or

(B) is (or is a part of) a nonprofit entity serving the public that—

(i) is officially authorized or licensed to engage in rescue activity or to provide emergency medical services; and

(ii) engages in rescue activities or provides emergency medical services as part of an official emergency response system;

(11) “neurocognitive disorder” means a disorder that is characterized by a clinically significant decline in cognitive functioning and may include symptoms and signs such as disturbances in memory, executive functioning (that is, higher-level cognitive processes, such as, regulating attention, planning, inhibiting responses, decision-making), visual-spatial functioning, language, speech, perception, insight, judgment, or an insensitivity to social standards;

(12) “sedentary work” means work that—

(A) involves lifting articles weighing no more than 10 pounds at a time or occasionally lifting or carrying articles such as docket files, ledgers, or small tools; and

(B) despite involving sitting on a regular basis, may require walking or standing on an occasional basis;

(13) “public agency” means the United States, any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any territory or possession of the United States, or any unit of local government, department, agency, or instrumentality of any of the foregoing, and includes (as may be prescribed by regulation hereunder) a legally organized volunteer fire department that is a nonprofit entity and provides services without regard to any particular relationship (such as a subscription) a member of the public may have with such a department; and

(14) “public safety officer” means—

(A) an individual serving a public agency in an official capacity, with or without compensation, as a law enforcement officer, as a firefighter, or as a chaplain: Provided, That (notwithstanding section 10285(b)(2) or (3) of this title) the Bureau shall, absent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary as determined by the Bureau, deem the actions outside of jurisdiction taken by any such law enforcement officer or firefighter, to have been taken while serving such public agency in such capacity, in any case in which the principal legal officer of such public agency, and the head of such agency, together, certify that such actions—

(i) were not unreasonable;

(ii) would have been within the authority and line of duty of such law enforcement officer or such firefighter to take, had they been taken in a jurisdiction where such law enforcement officer or firefighter was authorized to act, in the ordinary course, in an official capacity; and

(iii) would have resulted in the payment of full line-of-duty death or disability benefits (as applicable), if any such benefits typically were payable by (or with respect to or on behalf of) such public agency, as of the date the actions were taken;

(B) a candidate officer who is engaging in an activity or exercise that itself is a formal or required part of the program in which the candidate officer is enrolled or admitted, as provided in this section;

(C) an employee of the Federal Emergency Management Agency who is performing official duties of the Agency in an area, if those official duties—

(i) are related to a major disaster or emergency that has been, or is later, declared to exist with respect to the area under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 5121](/us/usc/t42/s5121) et seq.); and

(ii) are determined by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to be hazardous duties;

(D) an employee of a State, local, or tribal emergency management or civil defense agency who is performing official duties in cooperation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency in an area, if those official duties—

(i) are related to a major disaster or emergency that has been, or is later, declared to exist with respect to the area under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 5121](/us/usc/t42/s5121) et seq.); and

(ii) are determined by the head of the agency to be hazardous duties;

(E) a member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew who, as authorized or licensed by law and by the applicable agency or entity, is engaging in rescue activity or in the provision of emergency medical services: Provided, That (notwithstanding section 10285(b)(2) or (3) of this title) the Bureau shall, absent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary as determined by the Bureau, deem the actions outside of jurisdiction taken by any such member to have been thus authorized or licensed, in any case in which the principal legal officer of such agency or entity, and the head of such agency or entity, together, certify that such actions—

(i) were not unreasonable;

(ii) would have been within the authority and line of duty of such member to take, had they been taken in a jurisdiction where such member was authorized or licensed by law and by a pertinent agency or entity to act, in the ordinary course; and

(iii) would have resulted in the payment of full line-of-duty death or disability benefits (as applicable), if any such benefits typically were payable by (or with respect to or on behalf of) such applicable agency or entity, as of the date the action was taken;

(F) omitted

(G) an employee or contractor of the Department of Energy who—

(i) is—

(I) a nuclear materials courier (as defined in [section 8331(27) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s8331/27)); or

(II) designated by the Secretary of Energy as a member of an emergency response team; and

(ii) is performing official duties of the Department, pursuant to a deployment order issued by the Secretary, to protect the public, property, or the interests of the United States by—

(I) assessing, locating, identifying, securing, rendering safe, or disposing of weapons of mass destruction (as defined in [section 2302 of title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2302)); or

(II) managing the immediate consequences of a radiological release or exposure.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1204](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1204), formerly § 1203, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 609F](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s609F), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2099](/us/stat/98/2099); amended [Pub. L. 99–500, § 101(b) [title II, § 207]](/us/pl/99/500/s101/b/tII/s207), Oct. 18, 1986, [100 Stat. 1783–39](/us/stat/100/1783-39), 1783–56, and [Pub. L. 99–591, § 101(b) [title II, § 207]](/us/pl/99/591/s101/b/tII/s207), Oct. 30, 1986, [100 Stat. 3341–39](/us/stat/100/3341-39), 3341–56; renumbered § 1204 and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI](/us/pl/100/690/tVI), §§ 6105(d), 6106(a)(1), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4341](/us/stat/102/4341); [Pub. L. 101–647, title XIII](/us/pl/101/647/tXIII), §§ 1301(c), 1302, Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4834](/us/stat/104/4834); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330001(e)(2)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330001/e/2), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2139](/us/stat/108/2139); [Pub. L. 106–390, title III, § 305(a)](/us/pl/106/390/tIII/s305/a), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1573](/us/stat/114/1573); [Pub. L. 107–196, § 2(a)](/us/pl/107/196/s2/a), June 24, 2002, [116 Stat. 719](/us/stat/116/719); [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1164(a)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1164/a), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3120](/us/stat/119/3120); [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 612(c)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s612/c), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1410](/us/stat/120/1410); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1086(b)(1)(E)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1086/b/1/E), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/126/1967); [Pub. L. 116–22, title III, § 301(d)(2)](/us/pl/116/22/tIII/s301/d/2), June 24, 2019, [133 Stat. 933](/us/stat/133/933); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. C, title XXXI, § 3142](/us/pl/116/283/dC/tXXXI/s3142), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4386](/us/stat/134/4386); [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3](/us/pl/117/61/s3), Nov. 18, 2021, [135 Stat. 1475](/us/stat/135/1475); [Pub. L. 117–172, § 4(b)](/us/pl/117/172/s4/b), Aug. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2101](/us/stat/136/2101).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in par. (14)(C)(i), (D)(i), is [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143), which is classified principally to chapter 68 (§ 5121 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

#### Codification

Par. (14)(F) of this section, which was originally enacted as par. (9)(E) by [section 301(d)(2) of Pub. L. 116–22](/us/pl/116/22/s301/d/2), ceased to have force or effect on Oct. 1, 2021. Prior to being omitted, par. (14)(F) included within the definition of public safety officer an individual appointed to the National Disaster Medical System under [section 300hh–11 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–11), The Public Health and Welfare, performing official duties of the Department of Health and Human Services that were related to responding to a public health emergency, potential public health emergency, or other activities for which the National Disaster Medical System was activated and that were determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to be hazardous.

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

[Pub. L. 99–591](/us/pl/99/591) is a corrected version of [Pub. L. 99–500](/us/pl/99/500).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 1204 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s1204) was renumbered section 1205 and is classified to [section 10285 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10285).

#### Amendments

2022—Par. (11). [Pub. L. 117–172, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/172/s4/b/1), struck out “and” at end.

Par. (12)(B). [Pub. L. 117–172, § 4(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/172/s4/b/2), substituted semicolon for period at end.

Par. (14)(F), (G). [Pub. L. 117–172, § 4(b)(3)](/us/pl/117/172/s4/b/3), redesignated subpar. (F) relating to an employee or contractor of the Department of Energy as (G).

2021—Pars. (1) to (3). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(8)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/8), added pars. (1) to (3). Former pars. (1) to (3) redesignated (4) to (6), respectively.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(2)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/2), added par. (4) and struck out former par. (4) which read as follows: “ ‘catastrophic injury’ means an injury, the direct and proximate consequences of which permanently prevent an individual from performing any gainful work;”.

[Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), redesignated par. (1) as (4). Former par. (4) redesignated (7).

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), redesignated par. (2) as (5). Former par. (5) redesignated (8).

Par. (6). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), (3), redesignated par. (3) as (6) and substituted “at the time of the public safety officer’s death or fatal injury (in connection with any claim predicated upon such death or injury) or the date of the public safety officer’s catastrophic injury or of the final determination by the Bureau of any claim predicated upon such catastrophic injury” for “at the time of the public safety officer’s fatal or catastrophic injury” in introductory provisions. Former par. (6) redesignated (9).

Par. (7). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), (4), redesignated par. (4) as (7) and inserted “, including an individual who, as such a member, engages in scene security or traffic management as the primary or only duty of the individual during emergency response” before semicolon at end. Former par. (7) redesignated (10).

Par. (8). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), redesignated par. (5) as (8). Former par. (8) redesignated (13).

Par. (9). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), (5), redesignated par. (6) as (9) and substituted “delinquency),” for “delinquency).,”. Former par. (9) redesignated (14).

Par. (9)(F). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) added subpar. (F) relating to an employee or contractor of the Department of Energy. Par. (9) was subsequently redesignated (14) by [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1).

Par. (10). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), redesignated par. (7) as (10).

Pars. (11), (12). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(9)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/9), added pars. (11) and (12).

Par. (13). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), (6), redesignated par. (8) as (13) and inserted “, and includes (as may be prescribed by regulation hereunder) a legally organized volunteer fire department that is a nonprofit entity and provides services without regard to any particular relationship (such as a subscription) a member of the public may have with such a department” before “; and”.

Par. (14). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(1)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/1), redesignated par. (9) as (14).

Par. (14)(A). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(7)(A)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/7/A), added subpar. (A) and struck out former subpar. (A) which read as follows: “an individual serving a public agency in an official capacity, with or without compensation, as a law enforcement officer, as a firefighter, or as a chaplain;”.

Par. (14)(B). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(7)(C)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/7/C), added subpar. (B). Former subpar. (B) redesignated (C).

Par. (14)(C), (D). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(7)(B)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/7/B), redesignated subpars. (B) and (C) as (C) and (D), respectively.

Par. (14)(E). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(7)(D)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/7/D), added subpar. (E) and struck out former subpar. (E) which read as follows: “a member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew who, as authorized or licensed by law and by the applicable agency or entity, is engaging in rescue activity or in the provision of emergency medical services;”.

[Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(7)(B)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/7/B), redesignated subpar. (D) as (E). Former subpar. (E), relating to an individual appointed to the National Disaster Medical System under [section 300hh–11 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–11) and whose effect ceased Oct. 1, 2021, redesignated (F).

Par. (14)(F). [Pub. L. 117–61, § 3(7)(B)](/us/pl/117/61/s3/7/B), redesignated omitted subpar. (E), relating to an individual appointed to the National Disaster Medical System under [section 300hh–11 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–11) and whose effect ceased on Oct. 1, 2021, as (F). See Codification note above.

2019—Par. (9)(E). [Pub. L. 116–22, § 301(d)(2)](/us/pl/116/22/s301/d/2), (3), temporarily added subpar. (E) which related to an individual appointed to the National Disaster Medical System under [section 300hh–11 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–11). See Codification note above and Termination Date of 2019 Amendment note below.

2013—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1086(b)(1)(E)(i)](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/b/1/E/i), substituted “an injury, the direct and proximate consequences of which” for “consequences of an injury that”.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1086(b)(1)(E)(ii)](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/b/1/E/ii), inserted “or permanently and totally disabled” after “deceased” and substituted “fatal or catastrophic injury” for “death” in introductory provisions and redesignated cls. (i) to (iii) as subpars. (A) to (C), respectively.

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1086(b)(1)(E)(iii)(II)](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/b/1/E/iii/II), (III), redesignated cls. (i) and (ii) as subpars. (A) and (B), respectively, and, in subpar. (B), substituted “fatal or catastrophic injury” for “death”.

[Pub. L. 112–239, § 1086(b)(1)(E)(iii)(I)](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/b/1/E/iii/I), substituted “post-injury” for “post-mortem” in cls. (i) and (ii).

Par. (7). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1086(b)(1)(E)(iv)](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/b/1/E/iv), substituted “employee or volunteer member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew (including a ground or air ambulance service) that—” for “public employee member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew;” and added subpars. (A) and (B).

Par. (9)(A). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1086(b)(1)(E)(v)(I)](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/b/1/E/v/I), substituted “or as a chaplain;” for “as a chaplain, or as a member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew;”.

Par. (9)(D). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1086(b)(1)(E)(v)(II)](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/b/1/E/v/II)–(IV), added subpar. (D).

2006—Par. (4). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1164(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/162/s1164/a/3), struck out “and an officially recognized or designated public employee member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew” before semicolon at end.

Par. (6). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1164(a)(4)](/us/pl/109/162/s1164/a/4), substituted “enforcement of the criminal laws (including juvenile delinquency).” for “enforcement of the laws”.

Pars. (7) to (9). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1164(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/162/s1164/a/1), (2), added par. (7) and redesignated former pars. (7) and (8) as (8) and (9), respectively.

2002—Pars. (2) to (7). [Pub. L. 107–196, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/196/s2/a/1), (2), added par. (2) and redesignated former pars. (2) to (6) as (3) to (7), respectively. Former par. (7) redesignated (8).

Par. (8). [Pub. L. 107–196, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/196/s2/a/1), (3), redesignated par. (7) as (8) and inserted “as a chaplain,” after “firefighter,” in subpar. (A).

2000—Par. (7). [Pub. L. 106–390](/us/pl/106/390) added par. (7) and struck out former par. (7) which read as follows: “ ‘public safety officer’ means an individual serving a public agency in an official capacity, with or without compensation, as a law enforcement officer, a firefighter, or rescue squad or ambulance crew”.

1994—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) struck out before semicolon at end “who was responding to a fire, rescue or police emergency”.

1990—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 101–647, § 1301(c)](/us/pl/101/647/s1301/c), added par. (1). Former par. (1) redesignated (2).

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 101–647, § 1302](/us/pl/101/647/s1302), which directed amendment of par. (2) by inserting a period after “ambulance crew” and striking out “who was responding to a fire, rescue or police emergency.”, could not be executed because the phrases “ambulance crew” and “who was responding to a fire, rescue or police emergency.” did not appear in text of par. (2).

[Pub. L. 101–647, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/101/647/s1301/c/1), redesignated par. (1) as (2). Former par. (2) redesignated (3).

Pars. (3) to (7). [Pub. L. 101–647, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/101/647/s1301/c/1), redesignated pars. (2) to (6) as (3) to (7), respectively.

1988—Pars. (2) to (7). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 6105(d)](/us/pl/100/690/s6105/d), redesignated pars. (3) to (7) as (2) to (6), respectively, and struck out former par. (2) defining a “dependent” as any individual substantially reliant for support upon income of deceased public safety officer.

1986—[Pub. L. 99–500](/us/pl/99/500) and [Pub. L. 99–591](/us/pl/99/591) inserted “and an officially recognized or designated public employee member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew who was responding to a fire, rescue or police emergency” in par. (3), and substituted “, a firefighter, or rescue squad or ambulance crew” for “or a firefighter.” in par. (7).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency” substituted for “Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency” in par. (9)(B)(ii) (now (14)(C)(ii)) on authority of [section 612(c) of Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295/s612/c), set out as a note under [section 313 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s313), Domestic Security. Any reference to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in title VI of [Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295) or an amendment by title VI to be considered to refer and apply to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency until Mar. 31, 2007, see [section 612(f)(2) of Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295/s612/f/2), set out as a note under [section 313 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s313).

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–61](/us/pl/117/61) effective Nov. 18, 2021, and applicable to any matter pending, before the Bureau or otherwise, on Nov. 18, 2021, or filed (consistent with pre-existing effective dates) or accruing after that date, except that amendments to pars. (2) and (7) of this section by [Pub. L. 117–61](/us/pl/117/61) applicable with respect to injuries occurring on or after Jan. 1, 2008, see section 8(a) and (b) of [Pub. L. 117–61](/us/pl/117/61), set out in a note under [section 10281 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10281).

#### Termination Date of 2019 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–22, title III, § 301(d)(3)](/us/pl/116/22/tIII/s301/d/3), June 24, 2019, [133 Stat. 933](/us/stat/133/933), provided that: “The amendments made by paragraphs (1) and (2) [amending this section and [section 300hh–11 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–11), The Public Health and Welfare] shall cease to have force or effect on October 1, 2021.”

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) effective Jan. 2, 2013, and applicable to matters pending on Jan. 2, 2013, or filed or accruing after that date, with certain exceptions, see [section 1086(d) of Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/d), set out as a note under [section 10251 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10251).

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–196](/us/pl/107/196) effective Sept. 11, 2001, and applicable to injuries or deaths that occur in the line of duty on or after such date, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 107–196](/us/pl/107/196/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 10281 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10281).

#### Effective Date of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–390, title III, § 305(b)](/us/pl/106/390/tIII/s305/b), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1574](/us/stat/114/1574), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] applies only to employees described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 1204(7) [now 1204(14)(C) and (D)] of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 [[34 U.S.C. 10284(14)(C)](/us/usc/t34/s10284/14/C), (D)] (as amended by subsection (a)) who are injured or who die in the line of duty on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 2000].”

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647) effective Nov. 29, 1990, and not applicable with respect to injuries occurring before Nov. 29, 1990, see [section 1303 of Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647/s1303), set out as a note under [section 10281 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10281).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [section 6105(d) of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s6105/d) effective June 1, 1988, see [section 6105(e) of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s6105/e), set out as a note under [section 10281 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10281).

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see [section 315(a)(1) of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s315/a/1), Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding [section 1681 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1681), Territories and Insular Possessions.
