---
title: "§ 20903. Tribal registry"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–162, title IX, § 905(b)](/us/pl/109/162/tIX/s905/b), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3080](/us/stat/119/3080); [Pub. L. 113–4, title IX, § 907(b)](/us/pl/113/4/tIX/s907/b), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 125](/us/stat/127/125).)"
---
# § 20903. Tribal registry

##### § 20903. Tribal registry

(1) Establishment The Attorney General shall contract with any interested Indian tribe, tribal organization, or tribal nonprofit organization to develop and maintain—

(A) a national tribal sex offender registry; and

(B) a tribal protection order registry containing civil and criminal orders of protection issued by Indian tribes and participating jurisdictions.

(2) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018, to remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 109–162, title IX, § 905(b)](/us/pl/109/162/tIX/s905/b), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3080](/us/stat/119/3080); [Pub. L. 113–4, title IX, § 907(b)](/us/pl/113/4/tIX/s907/b), Mar. 7, 2013, [127 Stat. 125](/us/stat/127/125).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of subsec. (b) of [section 905 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s905). Subsec. (a) of [section 905 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s905) amended [section 534 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

Section was enacted as part of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, and not as part of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act which comprises this subchapter, or as part of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 534 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2013—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 113–4](/us/pl/113/4) substituted “fiscal years 2014 through 2018” for “fiscal years 2007 through 2011”.
