---
title: "§ 3013. Semiannual reports on investigative activities of the Postal Service"
identifier: "USC-T39-S3013"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section3013"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 98–186, § 3(a)](/us/pl/98/186/s3/a), Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/97/1317); amended [Pub. L. 104–66, title II, § 2211(b)](/us/pl/104/66/tII/s2211/b), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 733](/us/stat/109/733); [Pub. L. 106–168, title I](/us/pl/106/168/tI), §§ 107(c), 110(b)(1), Dec. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1813](/us/stat/113/1813), 1817; [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(69)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/69), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4350](/us/stat/136/4350).)"
---
# § 3013. Semiannual reports on investigative activities of the Postal Service

##### § 3013. Semiannual reports on investigative activities of the Postal Service

(1) a summary of any proceedings instituted under [section 3005 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s3005), and the results of those and of any other such proceedings decided, settled, or otherwise concluded during such period;

(2) the number of cases in which the authority described in [section 3005(e) of this title](/us/usc/t39/s3005/e) was used;

(3) the number of applications for temporary restraining orders or preliminary injunctions submitted under [section 3007 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s3007) and, of those applications, the number granted;

(4) the total amount of expenditures and obligations incurred in carrying out the investigative activities of the Postal Service;

(5) the number of cases in which the authority described in section 3016 was used, and a comprehensive statement describing how that authority was used in each of those cases; and

(6) such other information relating to the investigative activities of the Postal Service as the Inspector General may require.

*(Added [Pub. L. 98–186, § 3(a)](/us/pl/98/186/s3/a), Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1317](/us/stat/97/1317); amended [Pub. L. 104–66, title II, § 2211(b)](/us/pl/104/66/tII/s2211/b), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 733](/us/stat/109/733); [Pub. L. 106–168, title I](/us/pl/106/168/tI), §§ 107(c), 110(b)(1), Dec. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1813](/us/stat/113/1813), 1817; [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(69)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/69), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4350](/us/stat/136/4350).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “[section 405 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s405)” for “section 5 of the Inspector General Act of 1978” in concluding provisions.

1999—[Pub. L. 106–168, § 110(b)(1)](/us/pl/106/168/s110/b/1), in introductory provisions, substituted “Inspector General” for “Board” and “1 month (or such shorter length of time as the Inspector General may specify)” for “sixty days” and substituted concluding provisions for former concluding provisions which read as follows: “Upon approval of a report submitted under the first sentence of this section, the information in such report shall be included in the next semiannual report required under section 5 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).”

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 106–168, § 107(c)](/us/pl/106/168/s107/c), added par. (5). Former par. (5) redesignated (6).

Par. (6). [Pub. L. 106–168, § 110(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/106/168/s110/b/1/A), substituted “Inspector General” for “Board”.

[Pub. L. 106–168, § 107(c)](/us/pl/106/168/s107/c), redesignated par. (5) as (6).

1995—[Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66) substituted at end “the information in such report shall be included in the next semiannual report required under section 5 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)” for “the Board shall transmit such report to the Congress”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1999 Amendment

Amendment by [section 107(c) of Pub. L. 106–168](/us/pl/106/168/s107/c) effective 120 days after Dec. 12, 1999, see [section 111 of Pub. L. 106–168](/us/pl/106/168/s111), set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s3001).

[Pub. L. 106–168, title I, § 110(b)(2)](/us/pl/106/168/tI/s110/b/2), (3), Dec. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1817](/us/stat/113/1817), provided that: “(2) Effective date.—This subsection [amending this section] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 12, 1999], and the amendments made by this subsection shall apply with respect to semiannual reporting periods beginning on or after such date of enactment. “(3) Savings provision.—For purposes of any semiannual reporting period preceding the first semiannual reporting period referred to in paragraph (2), the provisions of title 39, United States Code, shall continue to apply as if the amendments made by this subsection had not been enacted.”
