---
title: "§ 20216. Reports of selection boards"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20216"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20216"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 637](/us/stat/137/637); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521(p)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521/p), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1882](/us/stat/138/1882).)"
---
# § 20216. Reports of selection boards

##### § 20216. Reports of selection boards

(a) In General.— Each selection board convened under [section 20211 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20211) shall submit to the Secretary of the Air Force a written report, signed by each member of the board, containing a list of the names of the officers it recommends for promotion and certifying—

(1) that the board has carefully considered the record of each officer whose name was furnished to it under [section 615 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s615); and

(2) that, in the opinion of a majority of the members of the board, the officers recommended for promotion by the board are best qualified for promotion to meet the needs of the Space Force (as noted in the guidelines or information furnished the board under [section 615(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s615/b)) among those officers whose names were furnished to the selection board.

(b) Officers Who Should Be Required to Show Cause for Retention.— A selection board convened under [section 20211 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20211) shall include in its report the name of any officer before it for consideration for promotion whose record, in the opinion of a majority of the members of the board, indicates that the officer should be required under [section 20503 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20503) to show cause for the officer’s retention in a space force active status.

(c) Officers Recommended to Be Placed Higher on the Promotion List.— A selection board convened under [section 20211 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20211) shall, when authorized under [section 20215(g) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20215/g), include in its report the names of those officers recommended by the board to be placed higher on the promotion list and the order in which the board recommends that those officers should be placed on the list.

(d) Recommendation for Officers to Be Excluded From Future Consideration for Promotion.— A selection board convened under [section 20211 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20211) may include in its report a recommendation that an officer considered by the board be excluded from future consideration for promotion under this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1716(c)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1716/c), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 637](/us/stat/137/637); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521(p)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521/p), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1882](/us/stat/138/1882).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) substituted “20215(g)” for “20214(g)”.
