---
title: "§ 3308a. Provision of certain information to Government Accountability Office by National Reconnaissance Office"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3308a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3308a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XVI, § 1620](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXVI/s1620), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2596](/us/stat/130/2596).)"
---
# § 3308a. Provision of certain information to Government Accountability Office by National Reconnaissance Office

##### § 3308a. Provision of certain information to Government Accountability Office by National Reconnaissance Office

(a) In general The Director of the National Reconnaissance Office shall provide to the Comptroller General of the United States, in a timely manner, access to the cost, schedule, and performance information the Comptroller General requires to conduct assessments, as required by any of the appropriate congressional committees, of programs of the National Reconnaissance Office.

(b) Appropriate congressional committees defined In this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(1) the congressional defense committees; and

(2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XVI, § 1620](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXVI/s1620), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2596](/us/stat/130/2596).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Congressional Defense Committees” Defined

Congressional defense committees means the Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s3), [130 Stat. 2025](/us/stat/130/2025). See note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.
