---
title: "§ 3979. Review of findings of fact and conclusions of law"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3979"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3979"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title IV, § 409, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2854](/us/stat/117/2854).)"
---
# § 3979. Review of findings of fact and conclusions of law

##### § 3979. Review of findings of fact and conclusions of law

The findings of fact and conclusions of law made by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in administering this subchapter are subject to review on appeal to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals pursuant to chapter 71 of title 38 and to judicial review only as provided in chapter 72 of such title.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title IV, § 409, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2854](/us/stat/117/2854).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 549 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 409 to 414 of article IV of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), [54 Stat. 1185](/us/stat/54/1185), 1186, were omitted in the general amendment of article IV by [act Oct. 6, 1942, ch. 581, § 13](/us/act/1942-10-06/ch581/s13), [56 Stat. 773](/us/stat/56/773).

Section 409 related to deduction of unpaid premiums from proceeds of policies.

Section 410 related to lapsing of policy for failure to pay past due premiums upon termination of service.

Section 411 related to accounts stated between insurers and United States.

Section 412 related to payment of balances due insurers by Secretary of the Treasury.

Section 413 related to policies excepted from application of article.

Section 414 related to insurers within application of article.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
