---
title: "§ 8221. Strategies, priorities, and annual report"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8221"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8221"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–53, title XXI, § 2121](/us/pl/110/53/tXXI/s2121), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 531](/us/stat/121/531); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXVII, § 6707(b)(3)](/us/pl/118/31/dF/tLXVII/s6707/b/3), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1018](/us/stat/137/1018).)"
---
# § 8221. Strategies, priorities, and annual report

##### § 8221. Strategies, priorities, and annual report

(a) Expansion of country-specific strategies to promote democracy

(1) Commendation Congress commends the Secretary for the ongoing work by the Department to develop country-specific strategies for promoting democracy.

(2) Expansion The Secretary shall expand the development of such strategies to all nondemocratic countries and democratic transition countries.

(3) Briefings The Secretary shall keep the appropriate congressional committees fully and currently informed as such strategies are developed.

(b) to (d) Omitted or repealed

*([Pub. L. 110–53, title XXI, § 2121](/us/pl/110/53/tXXI/s2121), Aug. 3, 2007, [121 Stat. 531](/us/stat/121/531); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXVII, § 6707(b)(3)](/us/pl/118/31/dF/tLXVII/s6707/b/3), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1018](/us/stat/137/1018).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 2121 of Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53/s2121). Subsecs. (b) and (d) of [section 2121 of Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53/s2121) amended [section 665(c) of Pub. L. 107–228](/us/pl/107/228/s665/c), which is set out as a note under [section 2151n of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151n). Subsec. (c) of [section 2121 of Pub. L. 110–53](/us/pl/110/53/s2121) was repealed by [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31), see 2023 Amendment note below.

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) struck out subsec. (c). Text read as follows: “The Annual Report on Advancing Freedom and Democracy shall include, as appropriate—

“(1) United States priorities for the promotion of democracy and the protection of human rights for each nondemocratic country and democratic transition country, developed in consultation with relevant parties in such countries; and

“(2) specific actions and activities of chiefs of missions and other United States officials to promote democracy and protect human rights in each such country.”
