---
title: "§ 5015. Study and report on funds availability"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5015"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5015"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–100, § 16](/us/pl/108/100/s16), Oct. 28, 2003, [117 Stat. 1190](/us/stat/117/1190).)"
---
# § 5015. Study and report on funds availability

##### § 5015. Study and report on funds availability

(a) Study In order to evaluate the implementation and the impact of this chapter, the Board shall conduct a study of—

(1) the percentage of total checks cleared in which the paper check is not returned to the paying bank;

(2) the extent to which banks make funds available to consumers for local and nonlocal checks prior to the expiration of maximum hold periods;

(3) the length of time within which depositary banks learn of the nonpayment of local and nonlocal checks;

(4) the increase or decrease in check-related losses over the study period; and

(5) the appropriateness of the time periods and amount limits applicable under sections 4002 and 4003 of this title, as in effect on October 28, 2003.

(b) Report to Congress Before the end of the 30-month period beginning on the effective date of this chapter, the Board shall submit a report to the Congress containing the results of the study conducted under this section, together with recommendations for legislative action.

*([Pub. L. 108–100, § 16](/us/pl/108/100/s16), Oct. 28, 2003, [117 Stat. 1190](/us/stat/117/1190).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 108–100](/us/pl/108/100), Oct. 28, 2003, [117 Stat. 1177](/us/stat/117/1177), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5001) and Tables.

The effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), is at the end of the 12-month period beginning on Oct. 28, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, see [section 20 of Pub. L. 108–100](/us/pl/108/100/s20), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 5001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5001).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective at the end of the 12-month period beginning on Oct. 28, 2003, see [section 20 of Pub. L. 108–100](/us/pl/108/100/s20), set out as a note under [section 5001 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5001).
