---
title: "§ 32511. Relationship to other motor vehicle standards"
identifier: "USC-T49-S32511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section32511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1047](/us/stat/108/1047).)"
---
# § 32511. Relationship to other motor vehicle standards

##### § 32511. Relationship to other motor vehicle standards

(a) Preemption.— Except as provided in this section, a State or a political subdivision of a State may prescribe or enforce a bumper standard for a passenger motor vehicle or passenger motor vehicle equipment only if the standard is identical to a standard prescribed under [section 32502 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s32502).

(b) Enforcement.— This chapter and chapter 301 of this title do not affect the authority of a State to enforce a bumper standard about an aspect of performance of a passenger motor vehicle or passenger motor vehicle equipment not covered by a standard prescribed under [section 32502 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s32502) if the State bumper standard—

(1) does not conflict with a standard prescribed under chapter 301 of this title; and

(2) was in effect or prescribed by the State on October 20, 1972.

(c) Additional and Higher Standards of Performance.— The United States Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State may prescribe a bumper standard for a passenger motor vehicle or passenger motor vehicle equipment obtained for its own use that imposes additional or higher standards of performance than a standard prescribed under [section 32502 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s32502).

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1047](/us/stat/108/1047).)*

In subsection (a), the words “may prescribe or enforce . . . only if the standard is identical” are substituted for “no . . . shall have any authority to establish or enforce with respect to . . . which is not identical” to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “a standard prescribed under [section 32502 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s32502)” are substituted for “Federal bumper standard” for clarity.

In subsection (b), before clause (1), the words “to continue” are omitted as surplus. The words “a bumper standard about an aspect of performance . . . not covered by a standard prescribed under [section 32502 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s32502)” are substituted for “Until a Federal bumper standard takes effect with respect to an aspect of performance” and “any bumper standard which is applicable to the same aspect of performance of such vehicle or item of equipment” to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “if the State bumper standard” are added for clarity.

In subsection (c), the words “that imposes additional or higher standards of performance than” are substituted for “which is not identical to . . . if such requirement imposes an additional or higher standard of performance” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 32511(a) | 15:1920(a). | Oct. 20, 1972, Pub. L. 92–513, § 110, 86 Stat. 955. |
| 32511(b) | 15:1920(b)(1). |  |
| 32511(c) | 15:1920(b)(2). |  |
