---
title: "§ 2274. Destruction or misuse of vessel by person in charge"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2274"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2274"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 804](/us/stat/62/804); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 2274. Destruction or misuse of vessel by person in charge

##### § 2274. Destruction or misuse of vessel by person in charge

Whoever, being the owner, master or person in charge or command of any private vessel, foreign or domestic, or a member of the crew or other person, within the territorial waters of the United States, willfully causes or permits the destruction or injury of such vessel or knowingly permits said vessel to be used as a place of resort for any person conspiring with another or preparing to commit any offense against the United States, or any offense in violation of the treaties of the United States or of the obligations of the United States under the law of nations, or to defraud the United States; or knowingly permits such vessels to be used in violation of the rights and obligations of the United States under the law of nations, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.

In case such vessels are so used, with the knowledge of the owner or master or other person in charge or command thereof, the vessel, together with her tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture to the United States in the same manner as merchandise is forfeited for violation of the customs revenue laws.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 804](/us/stat/62/804); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on [section 193 of title 50](/us/usc/t50/s193), U.S.C., 1940 ed., War and National Defense ([June 15, 1917, ch. 30](/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30), title II, § 3, [40 Stat. 220](/us/stat/40/220); [Mar. 28, 1940, ch. 72, § 3(b)](/us/act/1940-03-28/ch72/s3/b), [54 Stat. 79](/us/stat/54/79)).

Mandatory punishment provision was rephrased in the alternative.

Minor changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $10,000” in first par.
