---
title: "§ 2101. Congressional statement of findings and purpose"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–623, title II, § 202](/us/pl/98/623/tII/s202), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3394](/us/stat/98/3394).)"
---
# § 2101. Congressional statement of findings and purpose

##### § 2101. Congressional statement of findings and purpose

(a) The Congress finds that—

(1) although fishery products provide an important source of protein and industrial products for United States consumption, United States fishery production annually falls far short of satisfying United States demand;

(2) overfishing and the degradation of vital fishery resource habitats have caused a reduction in the abundance and diversity of United States fishery resources;

(3) escalated energy costs have had a negative effect on the economics of United States commercial and recreational fisheries;

(4) commercial and recreational fisheries are a prominent factor in United States coastal economies and the direct and indirect returns to the United States economy from commercial and recreational fishing expenditures are threefold; and

(5) properly designed, constructed, and located artificial reefs in waters covered under this chapter can enhance the habitat and diversity of fishery resources; enhance United States recreational and commercial fishing opportunities; increase the production of fishery products in the United States; increase the energy efficiency of recreational and commercial fisheries; and contribute to the United States and coastal economies.

(b) The purpose of this chapter is to promote and facilitate responsible and effective efforts to establish artificial reefs in waters covered under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 98–623, title II, § 202](/us/pl/98/623/tII/s202), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3394](/us/stat/98/3394).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title II of [Pub. L. 98–623](/us/pl/98/623), which in addition to enacting this chapter also enacted [section 1220d of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1220d), Conservation, and amended sections 1220, 1220a, 1220b, and 1220c of Title 16.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 98–623, title II, § 201](/us/pl/98/623/tII/s201), Nov. 8, 1984, [98 Stat. 3394](/us/stat/98/3394), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter and [section 1220d of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1220d), Conservation, and amending sections 1220 to 1220c of Title 16] may be cited as the ‘National Fishing Enhancement Act of 1984’.”
