---
title: "§ 300x–54. Disposition of certain funds appropriated for allotments"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300x–54"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300x–54"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1944, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s203/a), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 404](/us/stat/106/404).)"
---
# § 300x–54. Disposition of certain funds appropriated for allotments

##### § 300x–54. Disposition of certain funds appropriated for allotments

(a) In general Amounts described in subsection (b) and available for a fiscal year pursuant to section 300x or 300x–21 of this title, as the case may be, shall be allotted by the Secretary and paid to the States receiving a grant under the program involved, other than any State referred to in subsection (b) with respect to such program. Such amounts shall be allotted in a manner equivalent to the manner in which the allotment under the program involved was determined.

(b) Specification of amounts The amounts referred to in subsection (a) are any amounts that—

(1) are not paid to States under the program involved as a result of—

(A) the failure of any State to submit an application in accordance with the program;

(B) the failure of any State to prepare such application in compliance with the program; or

(C) any State informing the Secretary that the State does not intend to expend the full amount of the allotment made to the State under the program;

(2) are terminated, repaid, or offset under [section 300x–55 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–55);

(3) in the case of the program established in [section 300x of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x), are available as a result of reductions in allotments under such section pursuant to section 300x–1(d) or 300x–4(b) of this title; or

(4) in the case of the program established in [section 300x–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300x–21), are available as a result of reductions in allotments under such section pursuant to section 300x–26 or 300x–30 of this title.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XIX, § 1944, as added [Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 203(a)](/us/pl/102/321/tII/s203/a), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 404](/us/stat/106/404).)*
