---
title: "§ 3172. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program advisory board"
identifier: "USC-T5-S3172"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section3172"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–1, § 2(a)](/us/pl/115/1/s2/a), Jan. 20, 2017, [131 Stat. 4](/us/stat/131/4).)"
---
# § 3172. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program advisory board

##### § 3172. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program advisory board

(a) In General.— The Administrator of General Services shall continue an advisory board to advise the Director of the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program by recommending such priorities and standards as may be beneficial to fulfill the mission of the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program and assist in identifying potential projects and placements for fellows. The advisory board may not participate in the selection process under section 3171(f).

(b) Chair; Membership.— The Administrator shall designate a representative to serve as the Chair of the advisory board. In addition to the Chair, the membership of the advisory board shall include—

(1) the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget;

(2) the Director of the Office of Personnel Management;

(3) the Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government of the Office of Management and Budget;

(4) the Assistant to the President and Chief Technology Officer; and

(5) other individuals as may be designated by the Administrator.

(c) Consultation.— The advisory board may consult with industry, academia, or nonprofits to ensure the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program is continually identifying opportunities to apply advanced skillsets and innovative practices in effective ways to address the Nation’s most significant challenges.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–1, § 2(a)](/us/pl/115/1/s2/a), Jan. 20, 2017, [131 Stat. 4](/us/stat/131/4).)*
