---
title: "§ 1446c–2. Domestic casein industry"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1446c–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1446c–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–198, title I, § 105](/us/pl/99/198/tI/s105), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1367](/us/stat/99/1367).)"
---
# § 1446c–2. Domestic casein industry

##### § 1446c–2. Domestic casein industry

(a) Annual availability of surplus stocks of nonfat dry milk; bid basis The Commodity Credit Corporation shall provide surplus stocks of nonfat dry milk of not less than 1,000,000 pounds annually to individuals or entities on a bid basis.

(b) Acceptance of bids at lower than resale price The Commodity Credit Corporation may accept bids at lower than the resale price otherwise required by law, in order to promote the strengthening of the domestic casein industry.

(c) Nonfat dry milk sold to be used only for manufacture of casein The Commodity Credit Corporation shall take appropriate action to ensure that the nonfat dry milk sold by the Corporation under this section is used only for the manufacture of casein.

*([Pub. L. 99–198, title I, § 105](/us/pl/99/198/tI/s105), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1367](/us/stat/99/1367).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Food Security Act of 1985, and not as part of the Agricultural Act of 1949 which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of the 1949 Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1421 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1421) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Application of Section

This section not to affect any liability of any person under [section 1446 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1446) as in effect before Dec. 23, 1985, see [section 108 of Pub. L. 99–198](/us/pl/99/198/s108), set out as an Application of 1985 Amendments note under [section 1446 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1446).
