---
title: "§ 3123. Periodic reports"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–487, title VIII, § 813](/us/pl/96/487/tVIII/s813), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2428](/us/stat/94/2428).)"
---
# § 3123. Periodic reports

##### § 3123. Periodic reports

(1) an evaluation of the results of the monitoring undertaken by the Secretary as required by [section 3116 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3116);

(2) the status of fish and wildlife populations on public lands that are subject to subsistence uses;

(3) a description of the nature and extent of subsistence uses and other uses of fish and wildlife on the public lands;

(4) the role of subsistence uses in the economy and culture of rural Alaska;

(5) comments on the Secretary’s report by the State, the local advisory councils and regional advisory councils established by the Secretary or the State pursuant to [section 3115 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3115), and other appropriate persons and organizations;

(6) a description of those actions taken, or which may need to be taken in the future, to permit the opportunity for continuation of activities relating to subsistence uses on the public lands; and

(7) such other recommendations the Secretary deems appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 96–487, title VIII, § 813](/us/pl/96/487/tVIII/s813), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2428](/us/stat/94/2428).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in this section relating to submitting, within every three-year period, a report on the implementation of this subchapter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance, and page 112 of House Document No. 103–7.
