---
title: "§ 1979. Fishermen’s Protective Fund"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1979"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1979"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Aug. 27, 1954, ch. 1018, § 9](/us/act/1954-08-27/ch1018/s9), as added [Pub. L. 92–569, § 5](/us/pl/92/569/s5), Oct. 26, 1972, [86 Stat. 1183](/us/stat/86/1183); amended [Pub. L. 98–364, title III, § 302(c)](/us/pl/98/364/tIII/s302/c), July 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 444](/us/stat/98/444).)"
---
# § 1979. Fishermen’s Protective Fund

##### § 1979. Fishermen’s Protective Fund

There is created a Fishermen’s Protective Fund which shall be used by the Secretary of State to reimburse owners of vessels for amounts determined and certified by him under [section 1973 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1973). The amount of any claim or portion thereof collected by the Secretary of State from any foreign country pursuant to [section 1975(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1975/a) shall be deposited in the fund and shall be available for the purpose of reimbursing vessel owners under [section 1973 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1973); except that if a transfer to the fund was made pursuant to [section 1975(b)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1975/b/1) with respect to any such claim, an amount from the fund equal to the amount so collected shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. There is authorized to be appropriated to the fund (1) the sum of $3,000,000 to provide initial capital, and (2) such additional sums as may be necessary from time to time to supplement the fund in order to meet the requirements of the fund.

*([Aug. 27, 1954, ch. 1018, § 9](/us/act/1954-08-27/ch1018/s9), as added [Pub. L. 92–569, § 5](/us/pl/92/569/s5), Oct. 26, 1972, [86 Stat. 1183](/us/stat/86/1183); amended [Pub. L. 98–364, title III, § 302(c)](/us/pl/98/364/tIII/s302/c), July 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 444](/us/stat/98/444).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–364](/us/pl/98/364) substituted “Secretary of State” for “Secretary of the Treasury” and “determined and certified by him” for “certified to him by the Secretary of State”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to seizure of vessels of the United States occurring on or after Oct. 26, 1972, except that reimbursements under [section 1973 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1973) may be made from the fund established by this section with respect to seizure of vessels occurring after Dec. 31, 1970 and before Oct. 26, 1972, if no reimbursement was made before Oct. 26, 1972, see [section 6 of Pub. L. 92–569](/us/pl/92/569/s6), set out as an Effective Date of 1972 Amendment note under [section 1972 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1972).
