---
title: "§ 3206. Experimental projects and technical assistance"
identifier: "USC-T29-S3206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section3206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 156](/us/pl/113/128/tI/s156), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/128/1552).)"
---
# § 3206. Experimental projects and technical assistance

##### § 3206. Experimental projects and technical assistance

(a) Projects The Secretary may carry out experimental, research, or demonstration projects relating to carrying out the Job Corps program. The Secretary may waive any provisions of this part that the Secretary finds would prevent the Secretary from carrying out the projects if the Secretary informs the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, in writing, not less than 90 days in advance of issuing such waiver.

(b) Technical assistance From the funds provided under [section 3212 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3212) (for the purposes of administration), the Secretary may reserve ¼ of 1 percent to provide, directly or through grants, contracts, or other agreements or arrangements as the Secretary considers appropriate, technical assistance for the Job Corps program for the purpose of improving program quality. Such assistance shall include—

(1) assisting Job Corps centers and programs—

(A) in correcting deficiencies under, and violations of, this part;

(B) in meeting or exceeding the expected levels of performance under [section 3209(c)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3209/c/1) for the indicators of performance described in [section 3141(b)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3141/b/2/A);

(C) in the development of sound management practices, including financial management procedures; and

(2) assisting entities, including entities not currently operating a Job Corps center, in developing the additional selection factors information described in [section 3197(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3197/a/3).

*([Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 156](/us/pl/113/128/tI/s156), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/128/1552).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 (July 1, 2015), see [section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128](/us/pl/113/128/s506), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s3101).
