---
title: "§ 1324. Certain enforcement relief"
identifier: "USC-T45-S1324"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title45-section1324"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "45"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–509, title IV, § 4025](/us/pl/99/509/tIV/s4025), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1905](/us/stat/100/1905).)"
---
# § 1324. Certain enforcement relief

##### § 1324. Certain enforcement relief

(a) Enforcement actions The Secretary of Transportation, with respect to any provision of section 1321 or 1322 of this title, and any person who suffers direct and substantial economic injury as a result of an alleged violation by the Corporation, with respect to the provisions of section 1321(a)(1) and (2) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, and [section 1322 of this title](/us/usc/t45/s1322), may bring an action to require compliance with such provision.

(b) Special court Any action brought under this subchapter shall be brought before the special court established under [section 719 of this title](/us/usc/t45/s719). Such special court may limit the enforcement of a restriction under [section 1321 of this title](/us/usc/t45/s1321), if the effect of such restriction would be to substantially impair the continued viability of the Corporation.

*([Pub. L. 99–509, title IV, § 4025](/us/pl/99/509/tIV/s4025), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1905](/us/stat/100/1905).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1321(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t45/s1321/a/2), referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by [Pub. L. 101–213, § 2(b)(3)](/us/pl/101/213/s2/b/3), Dec. 11, 1989, [103 Stat. 1843](/us/stat/103/1843).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Special Court, Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973, and Transfer of Functions

Special court abolished and all jurisdiction and functions transferred to United States District Court for District of Columbia, see [section 719(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t45/s719/b/2).
