---
title: "§ 56502. Adjusting obligations and arranging maintenance"
identifier: "USC-T46-S56502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section56502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(c)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/c), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1657](/us/stat/120/1657).)"
---
# § 56502. Adjusting obligations and arranging maintenance

##### § 56502. Adjusting obligations and arranging maintenance

(a) General Authority.— On written application, the Secretary of Transportation may adjust obligations and arrange for maintenance of an essential vessel as provided in this chapter if the Secretary determines, after any investigation or proceeding the Secretary considers desirable, that—

(1) the operation of the vessel in the service, route, or line to which it is assigned under this subtitle, or in which it otherwise would be operated, is not—

(A) lawful under the Neutrality Act of 1939 ([22 U.S.C. 441](/us/usc/t22/s441) et seq.) or a proclamation issued under that Act; or

(B) compatible with maintaining the availability of the vessel for national defense and commerce;

(2) it is not feasible under existing law to employ the vessel in any other service or operation in foreign or domestic trade (except temporary or emergency operation under [section 56503(b)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s56503/b/5)); and

(3) the applicant, because of the restrictions of the Neutrality Act of 1939 ([22 U.S.C. 441](/us/usc/t22/s441) et seq.) or the withdrawal of vessels for national defense under paragraph (1), is not earning or will not earn a reasonable return on the capital necessarily employed in its business.

(b) Effective Period.— Adjustments and arrangements under subsection (a) shall continue in effect only as long as the circumstances described in subsection (a) continue to exist.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 8(c)](/us/pl/109/304/s8/c), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1657](/us/stat/120/1657).)*

The text of 46 App. U.S.C. 1242a(b) (1st sentence) is omitted as surplus. The text of 46 App. U.S.C. 1242a(e) is omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 56502 | 46 App.:1242a(b), (e). | June 29, 1940, ch. 442, subdivs. (b), (e), 54 Stat. 684, 686; Pub. L. 97–31, § 12(132), Aug. 6, 1981, 95 Stat. 165. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Neutrality Act of 1939, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), (3), is [act Nov. 4, 1939, ch. 2](/us/act/1939-11-04/ch2), [54 Stat. 4](/us/stat/54/4), which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 441 et seq.) of chapter 9 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 441 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s441) and Tables.
