---
title: "§ 5911. Acquisition of essential materials"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5911"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5911"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–577, § 12](/us/pl/93/577/s12), Dec. 31, 1974, [88 Stat. 1892](/us/stat/88/1892); [Pub. L. 109–58, title X, § 1009(b)(8)](/us/pl/109/58/tX/s1009/b/8), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 935](/us/stat/119/935).)"
---
# § 5911. Acquisition of essential materials

##### § 5911. Acquisition of essential materials

(a) The President may, by rule or order, require the allocation of, or the performance under contracts or orders (other than contracts of employment) relating to, supplies of materials and equipment if he finds that—

(1) such supplies are scarce, critical, and essential to carry out the purposes of this chapter; and

(2) such supplies cannot reasonably be obtained without exercising the authority granted by this section.

(b) A rule or order under subsection (a) shall be considered to be a major rule subject to chapter 8 of title 5.

*([Pub. L. 93–577, § 12](/us/pl/93/577/s12), Dec. 31, 1974, [88 Stat. 1892](/us/stat/88/1892); [Pub. L. 109–58, title X, § 1009(b)(8)](/us/pl/109/58/tX/s1009/b/8), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 935](/us/stat/119/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2005—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows: “The President shall transmit any rule or order proposed under subsection (a) of this section (bearing an identification number) to each House of Congress on the date on which it is proposed. If such proposed rule or order is transmitted to the Congress such proposed rule or order shall take effect at the end of the first period of thirty calendar days of continuous session of Congress after the date on which such proposed rule or order is transmitted to it unless, between the date of transmittal and the end of the thirty day period, either House passes a resolution stating in substance that such House does not favor such a proposed rule or order.”
