---
title: "§ 1856. Transfer of bartered materials to supplemental stockpile; limitation of acquisition to certain programs; authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1856"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1856"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([May 28, 1956, ch. 327](/us/act/1956-05-28/ch327), title II, § 206, [70 Stat. 200](/us/stat/70/200); [Pub. L. 85–931, § 7](/us/pl/85/931/s7), Sept. 6, 1958, [72 Stat. 1791](/us/stat/72/1791); [Pub. L. 86–341, title II, § 204](/us/pl/86/341/tII/s204), Sept. 21, 1959, [73 Stat. 611](/us/stat/73/611); [Pub. L. 87–456, title III, § 303(c)](/us/pl/87/456/tIII/s303/c), May 24, 1962, [76 Stat. 78](/us/stat/76/78); [Pub. L. 110–246, title III, § 3001(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/246/tIII/s3001/b/1/A), (2)(I), "
---
# § 1856. Transfer of bartered materials to supplemental stockpile; limitation of acquisition to certain programs; authorization of appropriations

##### § 1856. Transfer of bartered materials to supplemental stockpile; limitation of acquisition to certain programs; authorization of appropriations

(a) Strategic and other materials acquired by the Commodity Credit Corporation as a result of barter or exchange of agricultural commodities or products, unless acquired for the national stockpile established pursuant to the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act [[50 U.S.C. 98](/us/usc/t50/s98) et seq.], or for other purposes shall be transferred to the supplemental stockpile established by section 1704(b) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title; but no strategic or critical material shall be acquired by the Commodity Credit Corporation as a result of such barter or exchange except for such national stockpile, for such supplemental stockpile, for foreign economic or military aid or assistance programs, or for offshore construction programs, or to meet requirements of Government agencies.

(b) Repealed. [Pub. L. 87–456, title III, § 303(c)](/us/pl/87/456/tIII/s303/c), May 24, 1962, [76 Stat. 78](/us/stat/76/78).

(c) In order to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for materials transferred to the supplemental stockpile there are hereby authorized to be appropriated amounts equal to the value of any materials so transferred. The value of any such material for the purpose of this subsection, shall be the lower of the domestic market price or the Commodity Credit Corporation’s investment therein as of the date of such transfer as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

*([May 28, 1956, ch. 327](/us/act/1956-05-28/ch327), title II, § 206, [70 Stat. 200](/us/stat/70/200); [Pub. L. 85–931, § 7](/us/pl/85/931/s7), Sept. 6, 1958, [72 Stat. 1791](/us/stat/72/1791); [Pub. L. 86–341, title II, § 204](/us/pl/86/341/tII/s204), Sept. 21, 1959, [73 Stat. 611](/us/stat/73/611); [Pub. L. 87–456, title III, § 303(c)](/us/pl/87/456/tIII/s303/c), May 24, 1962, [76 Stat. 78](/us/stat/76/78); [Pub. L. 110–246, title III, § 3001(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/246/tIII/s3001/b/1/A), (2)(I), June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1820](/us/stat/122/1820).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act June 7, 1939, ch. 190](/us/act/1939-06-07/ch190), as revised generally by [Pub. L. 96–41, § 2](/us/pl/96/41/s2), July 30, 1979, [93 Stat. 319](/us/stat/93/319), which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 98 et seq.) of chapter 5 of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 98 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s98) and Tables.

[Section 1704(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1704/b), referred to in subsec. (a), was amended generally by [Pub. L. 101–624, title XV, § 1512](/us/pl/101/624/tXV/s1512), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3635](/us/stat/104/3635), and, as so amended, no longer contains provisions relating to a supplemental stockpile.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 1704(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1704/b).

1962—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 87–456](/us/pl/87/456) repealed subsec. (b) which permitted strategic materials acquired by Commodity Credit Corporation as a result of barter or exchange of agricultural commodities or products to be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, free of duty.

1959—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 86–341](/us/pl/86/341) authorized acquisition of strategic and critical materials for national stockpile to meet requirements of Government agencies.

1958—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 85–931](/us/pl/85/931) limited acquisition of strategic and critical materials for national stockpile, supplemental stockpile, foreign economic or military aid or assistance programs and offshore construction programs.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, see [section 4(b) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/b), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 8701 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8701).

#### Effective Date of 1962 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 87–456](/us/pl/87/456) effective with respect to articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after Aug. 31, 1963, see [section 501(a) of Pub. L. 87–456](/us/pl/87/456/s501/a).
