---
title: "§ 2277. Explosives or dangerous weapons aboard vessels"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2277"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2277"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 804](/us/stat/62/804); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(H)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/H), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147); [Pub. L. 109–304, § 17(d)(6)](/us/pl/109/304/s17/d/6), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1707](/us/stat/120/1707).)"
---
# § 2277. Explosives or dangerous weapons aboard vessels

##### § 2277. Explosives or dangerous weapons aboard vessels

(a) Whoever brings, carries, or possesses any dangerous weapon, instrument, or device, or any dynamite, nitroglycerin, or other explosive article or compound on board of any vessel documented under the laws of the United States, or any vessel purchased, requisitioned, chartered, or taken over by the United States pursuant to the provisions of [Act June 6, 1941, ch. 174](/us/act/1941-06-06/ch174), [55 Stat. 242](/us/stat/55/242), as amended, without previously obtaining the permission of the owner or the master of such vessel; orWhoever brings, carries, or possesses any such weapon or explosive on board of any vessel in the possession and under the control of the United States or which has been seized and forfeited by the United States or upon which a guard has been placed by the United States pursuant to the provisions of section 191 11 See References in Text note below. of Title 50, without previously obtaining the permission of the captain of the port in which such vessel is located, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.

(b) This section shall not apply to the personnel of the Armed Forces of the United States or to officers or employees of the United States or of a State or of a political subdivision thereof, while acting in the performance of their duties, who are authorized by law or by rules or regulations to own or possess any such weapon or explosive.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 804](/us/stat/62/804); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(H)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/H), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147); [Pub. L. 109–304, § 17(d)(6)](/us/pl/109/304/s17/d/6), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1707](/us/stat/120/1707).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., §§ 503, 504 ([Dec. 31, 1941, ch. 642](/us/act/1941-12-31/ch642), §§ 1, 2, [55 Stat. 876](/us/stat/55/876)).

Section consolidates sections 503 and 504 of title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed.

Words “This section” were substituted in subsection (b) for the words “The provisions of sections 503, 504 of this title”.

Minor changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Act June 6, 1941, ch. 174](/us/act/1941-06-06/ch174), [55 Stat. 242](/us/stat/55/242), referred to in subsec. (a), expired July 1, 1953.

[Section 191 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s191), referred to in subsec. (a), was redesignated and transferred to [section 70051 of Title 46](/us/usc/t46/s70051), Shipping, by [Pub. L. 115–282, title IV, § 407(b)(1)](/us/pl/115/282/tIV/s407/b/1), (5), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4267](/us/stat/132/4267).

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–304](/us/pl/109/304) substituted “documented” for “registered, enrolled, or licensed”.

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $1,000” in second par.
