---
title: "§ 2464. Use of capabilities of national security laboratories by entities outside the Administration"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2464"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2464"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3264](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3264), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 967](/us/stat/113/967); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3145(h)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3145/h), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1072](/us/stat/127/1072).)"
---
# § 2464. Use of capabilities of national security laboratories by entities outside the Administration

##### § 2464. Use of capabilities of national security laboratories by entities outside the Administration

The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Administrator, shall establish appropriate procedures to provide for the use, in a manner consistent with the national security mission of the Administration under [section 2401(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2401/b), of the capabilities of the national security laboratories by elements of the Department of Energy not within the Administration, other Federal agencies, and other appropriate entities, including the use of those capabilities to support efforts to defend against weapons of mass destruction.

*([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3264](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3264), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 967](/us/stat/113/967); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3145(h)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3145/h), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1072](/us/stat/127/1072).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2013—[Pub. L. 113–66](/us/pl/113/66) inserted “of Energy” after “Secretary”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 1, 2000, see [section 3299 of Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65/s3299), set out as a note under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2401).

#### Establishment of Microlab Pilot Program

[Pub. L. 114–92, div. C, title XXXI, § 3120](/us/pl/114/92/dC/tXXXI/s3120), Nov. 25, 2015, [129 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/129/1198), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the directors of the national security laboratories, may establish a microlab pilot program under which the Secretary establishes a microlab for the purposes of—“(1) enhancing collaboration with regional research groups, such as institutions of higher education and industry groups; “(2) accelerating technology transfer from national security laboratories to the marketplace; and “(3) promoting regional workforce development through science, technology, engineering, and mathematics instruction and training. “(b) Criteria.—“(1) In general.—In determining the placement of a microlab under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider—“(A) the interest of a national security laboratory in establishing a microlab; “(B) the existence of an available facility that has the capability to house a microlab; “(C) whether employees of a national security laboratory and persons from academia, industry, and government are available to be assigned to the microlab; and “(D) cost-sharing or in-kind contributions from State and local governments and private industry. “(2) Cost-sharing.—The Secretary shall, to the extent feasible, require cost-sharing or in-kind contributions described in paragraph (1)(D) to cover the full cost of the microlab under subsection (a). “(c) Timing.—If the Secretary, in consultation with the directors of the national security laboratories, elects to establish a microlab pilot program under this section, the Secretary, in collaboration with such directors, shall—“(1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 25, 2015], begin the process of determining the placement of the microlab under subsection (a); and “(2) not later than one year after such date of enactment, implement the microlab pilot program under this section. “(d) Reports Required.—If the Secretary, in consultation with the directors of the national security laboratories, elects to establish a microlab pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees—“(1) not later than 120 days after the date of the implementation of the program, a report that provides an update on the implementation of the program; and “(2) not later than one year after the date of the implementation of the program, a report on the program, including findings and recommendations of the Secretary with respect to the program. “(e) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Appropriate congressional committees.—The term ‘appropriate congressional committees’ means—“(A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate; and “(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives. “(2) Microlab.—The term ‘microlab’ means a facility that is—“(A) in close proximity to, but outside the perimeter of, a national security laboratory; “(B) an extension of or affiliated with a national security laboratory; and “(C) accessible to the public. “(3) National security laboratory.—The term ‘national security laboratory’ has the meaning given that term in section 3281 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act ([50 U.S.C. 2471](/us/usc/t50/s2471)).”
