---
title: "§ 1103. Functions of the Director"
identifier: "USC-T5-S1103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section1103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 399](/us/stat/80/399); [Pub. L. 95–454, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/95/454/tII/s201/a), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1119](/us/stat/92/1119); [Pub. L. 99–251, title III](/us/pl/99/251/tIII), §§ 301, 302, Feb. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 26](/us/stat/100/26); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XIII, § 1304](/us/pl/107/296/tXIII/s1304), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2289](/us/stat/116/2289).)"
---
# § 1103. Functions of the Director

##### § 1103. Functions of the Director

(a) The following functions are vested in the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, and shall be performed by the Director, or subject to [section 1104 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1104), by such employees of the Office as the Director designates:

(1) securing accuracy, uniformity, and justice in the functions of the Office;

(2) appointing individuals to be employed by the Office;

(3) directing and supervising employees of the Office, distributing business among employees and organizational units of the Office, and directing the internal management of the Office;

(4) directing the preparation of requests for appropriations for the Office and the use and expenditure of funds by the Office;

(5) executing, administering, and enforcing—

except with respect to functions for which the Merit Systems Protection Board or the Special Counsel is primarily responsible;

(A) the civil service rules and regulations of the President and the Office and the laws governing the civil service; and

(B) the other activities of the Office including retirement and classification activities;

(6) reviewing the operations under chapter 87 of this title;

(7) aiding the President, as the President may request, in preparing such civil service rules as the President prescribes, and otherwise advising the President on actions which may be taken to promote an efficient civil service and a systematic application of the merit system principles, including recommending policies relating to the selection, promotion, transfer, performance, pay, conditions of service, tenure, and separation of employees;

(8) conducting, or otherwise providing for the conduct of, studies and research under chapter 47 of this title into methods of assuring improvements in personnel management; and

(9) incurring official reception and representation expenses of the Office subject to any limitation prescribed in any law.

(b)

(1) The Director shall publish in the Federal Register general notice of any rule or regulation which is proposed by the Office and the application of which does not apply solely to the Office or its employees. Any such notice shall include the matter required under section 553(b)(1), (2), and (3) of this title.

(2) The Director shall take steps to ensure that—

(A) any proposed rule or regulation to which paragraph (1) of this subsection applies is posted in offices of Federal agencies maintaining copies of the Federal personnel regulations; and

(B) to the extent the Director determines appropriate and practical, exclusive representatives of employees affected by such proposed rule or regulation and interested members of the public are notified of such proposed rule or regulation.

(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection shall not apply to any proposed rule or regulation which is temporary in nature and which is necessary to be implemented expeditiously as a result of an emergency.

(4) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection and [section 1105 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1105) shall not apply to the establishment of any schedules or rates of basic pay or allowances under subpart D of part III of this title. The preceding sentence does not apply to the establishment of the procedures, methodology, or criteria used to establish such schedules, rates, or allowances.

(c)

(1) The Office of Personnel Management shall design a set of systems, including appropriate metrics, for assessing the management of human capital by Federal agencies.

(2) The systems referred to under paragraph (1) shall be defined in regulations of the Office of Personnel Management and include standards for—

(A)

(i) aligning human capital strategies of agencies with the missions, goals, and organizational objectives of those agencies; and

(ii) integrating those strategies into the budget and strategic plans of those agencies;

(B) closing skill gaps in mission critical occupations;

(C) ensuring continuity of effective leadership through implementation of recruitment, development, and succession plans;

(D) sustaining a culture that cultivates and develops a high performing workforce;

(E) developing and implementing a knowledge management strategy supported by appropriate investment in training and technology; and

(F) holding managers and human resources officers accountable for efficient and effective human resources management in support of agency missions in accordance with merit system principles.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 399](/us/stat/80/399); [Pub. L. 95–454, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/95/454/tII/s201/a), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1119](/us/stat/92/1119); [Pub. L. 99–251, title III](/us/pl/99/251/tIII), §§ 301, 302, Feb. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 26](/us/stat/100/26); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XIII, § 1304](/us/pl/107/296/tXIII/s1304), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2289](/us/stat/116/2289).)*

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | [Uncodified]. | 1949 Reorg. Plan No. 5, §§ 1, 2(a) (35th through 46th words), 3, eff. Aug. 20, 1949, 63 Stat. 1067, 1069. |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 632 (5th par.). | July 31, 1956, ch. 804, § 201(b), 70 Stat. 742. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) added subsec. (c).

1986—Subsec. (a)(9). [Pub. L. 99–251, § 301](/us/pl/99/251/s301), added par. (9).

Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 99–251, § 302](/us/pl/99/251/s302), added par. (4).

1978—[Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) substituted “Functions of the Director” for “Chairman; Vice Chairman; Executive Director” in section catchline, and in text provisions relating to the functions of the Director of the Office of Personnel Management for provisions relating to the Chairman, Vice Chairman, and Executive Director of the United States Civil Service Commission.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

[Pub. L. 107–296, title XIII, § 1305](/us/pl/107/296/tXIII/s1305), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2289](/us/stat/116/2289), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle A (§§ 1301–1305) of title XIII of [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296), enacting chapter 14 of this title, amending this section, and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 1401 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1401)] shall take effect 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 25, 2002].”

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
