---
title: "§ 12371. Grants authorized"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12371"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12371"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40411](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40411), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1942](/us/stat/108/1942); [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title IV, § 1406(c)(2)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tIV/s1406/c/2), (d)(1), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1516](/us/stat/114/1516).)"
---
# § 12371. Grants authorized

##### § 12371. Grants authorized

The State Justice Institute may award grants for the purpose of developing, testing, presenting, and disseminating model programs to be used by States (as defined in [section 10701 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10701)) in training judges and court personnel in the laws of the States and by Indian tribes in training tribal judges and court personnel in the laws of the tribes on rape, sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and other crimes of violence motivated by the victim’s gender. Nothing shall preclude the attendance of tribal judges and court personnel at programs funded under this section for States to train judges and court personnel on the laws of the States.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40411](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40411), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1942](/us/stat/108/1942); [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title IV, § 1406(c)(2)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tIV/s1406/c/2), (d)(1), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1516](/us/stat/114/1516).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13991 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13991), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2000—[Pub. L. 106–386](/us/pl/106/386) inserted “dating violence,” after “domestic violence,” and “Nothing shall preclude the attendance of tribal judges and court personnel at programs funded under this section for States to train judges and court personnel on the laws of the States.” at end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of subtitle D of title IV of [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), which is classified to this part, as the “Equal Justice for Women in the Courts Act of 1994”, see [section 40401 of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s40401), set out as a Short Title of 1994 Act note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
