---
title: "§ 5112. Denominations, specifications, and design of coins"
identifier: "USC-T31-S5112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section5112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 981](/us/stat/96/981); [Pub. L. 97–452, § 1(20)](/us/pl/97/452/s1/20), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2477](/us/stat/96/2477); [Pub. L. 99–61, title II, § 202](/us/pl/99/61/tII/s202), July 9, 1985, [99 Stat. 115](/us/stat/99/115); [Pub. L. 99–185, § 2(a)](/us/pl/99/185/s2/a), (b), Dec. 17, 1985, [99 Stat. 1177](/us/stat/99/1177); [Pub. L. 100–274](/us/pl/100/274), §§ 4(a), 6, Mar. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 50](/us/stat/102/50); [Pub. L. 102–390, t"
---
# § 5112. Denominations, specifications, and design of coins

##### § 5112. Denominations, specifications, and design of coins

(a) The Secretary of the Treasury may mint and issue only the following coins:

(1) a dollar coin that is 1.043 inches in diameter.

(2) a half dollar coin that is 1.205 inches in diameter and weighs 11.34 grams.

(3) a quarter dollar coin that is 0.955 inch in diameter and weighs 5.67 grams.

(4) a dime coin that is 0.705 inch in diameter and weighs 2.268 grams.

(5) a 5-cent coin that is 0.835 inch in diameter and weighs 5 grams.

(6) except as provided under subsection (c) of this section, a one-cent coin that is 0.75 inch in diameter and weighs 3.11 grams.

(7) A fifty dollar gold coin that is 32.7 millimeters in diameter, weighs 33.931 grams, and contains one troy ounce of fine gold.

(8) A twenty-five dollar gold coin that is 27.0 millimeters in diameter, weighs 16.966 grams, and contains one-half troy ounce of fine gold.

(9) A ten dollar gold coin that is 22.0 millimeters in diameter, weighs 8.483 grams, and contains one-fourth troy ounce of fine gold.

(10) A five dollar gold coin that is 16.5 millimeters in diameter, weighs 3.393 grams, and contains one-tenth troy ounce of fine gold.

(11) A $50 gold coin that is of an appropriate size and thickness, as determined by the Secretary, weighs 1 ounce, and contains 99.99 percent pure gold.

(12) A $25 coin of an appropriate size and thickness, as determined by the Secretary, that weighs 1 troy ounce and contains .9995 fine palladium.

(b) The half dollar, quarter dollar, and dime coins are clad coins with 3 layers of metal. The 2 identical outer layers are an alloy of 75 percent copper and 25 percent nickel. The inner layer is copper. The outer layers are metallurgically bonded to the inner layer and weigh at least 30 percent of the weight of the coin. The dollar coin shall be golden in color, have a distinctive edge, have tactile and visual features that make the denomination of the coin readily discernible, be minted and fabricated in the United States, and have similar metallic, anti-counterfeiting properties as United States coinage in circulation on the date of enactment of the United States $1 Coin Act of 1997. The 5-cent coin is an alloy of 75 percent copper and 25 percent nickel. In minting 5-cent coins, the Secretary shall use bars that vary not more than 2.5 percent from the percent of nickel required. Except as provided under subsection (c) of this section, the one-cent coin is an alloy of 95 percent copper and 5 percent zinc. In minting gold coins, the Secretary shall use alloys that vary not more than 0.1 percent from the percent of gold required. The specifications for alloys are by weight.

(c) The Secretary may prescribe the weight and the composition of copper and zinc in the alloy of the one-cent coin that the Secretary decides are appropriate when the Secretary decides that a different weight and alloy of copper and zinc are necessary to ensure an adequate supply of one-cent coins to meet the needs of the United States.

(d)

(1) United States coins shall have the inscription “In God We Trust”. The obverse side of each coin shall have the inscription “Liberty”. The reverse side of each coin shall have the inscriptions “United States of America” and “E Pluribus Unum” and a designation of the value of the coin. The design on the reverse side of the dollar, half dollar, and quarter dollar is an eagle. Subject to other provisions of this subsection, the obverse of any 5-cent coin issued after December 31, 2005, shall bear the likeness of Thomas Jefferson and the reverse of any such 5-cent coin shall bear an image of the home of Thomas Jefferson at Monticello. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Congress, shall select appropriate designs for the obverse and reverse sides of the dollar coin. The coins have an inscription of the year of minting or issuance. However, to prevent or alleviate a shortage of a denomination, the Secretary may inscribe coins of the denomination with the year that was last inscribed on coins of the denomination.

(2) The Secretary shall prepare the devices, models, hubs, and dies for coins, emblems, devices, inscriptions, and designs authorized under this chapter. The Secretary may, after consulting with the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee and the Commission of Fine Arts, adopt and prepare new designs or models of emblems or devices that are authorized in the same way as when new coins or devices are authorized. The Secretary may change the design or die of a coin only once within 25 years of the first adoption of the design, model, hub, or die for that coin. The Secretary may procure services under [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109) in carrying out this paragraph.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall mint and issue, in qualities and quantities that the Secretary determines are sufficient to meet public demand, coins which—

(1) are 40.6 millimeters in diameter and weigh 31.103 grams;

(2) contain .999 fine silver;

(3) have a design—

(A) symbolic of Liberty on the obverse side; and

(B) of an eagle on the reverse side;

(4) have inscriptions of the year of minting or issuance, and the words “Liberty”, “In God We Trust”, “United States of America”, “1 Oz. Fine Silver”, “E Pluribus Unum”, and “One Dollar”; and

(5) have reeded edges.

(f) Silver Coins.—

(1) Sale price.— The Secretary shall sell the coins minted under subsection (e) to the public at a price equal to the market value of the bullion at the time of sale, plus the cost of minting, marketing, and distributing such coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and promotional and overhead expenses).

(2) Bulk sales.— The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins minted under subsection (e) at a reasonable discount.

(3) Numismatic items.— For purposes of [section 5132(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5132/a/1), all coins minted under subsection (e) shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(g) For purposes of [section 5132(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5132/a/1), all coins minted under subsection (e) of this section shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(h) The coins issued under this title shall be legal tender as provided in [section 5103 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5103).

(i)

(1) Notwithstanding [section 5111(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5111/a/1), the Secretary shall mint and issue the gold coins described in paragraphs (7), (8), (9), and (10) of subsection (a) of this section, in qualities and quantities that the Secretary determines are sufficient to meet public demand, and such gold coins shall—

(A) have a design determined by the Secretary, except that the fifty dollar gold coin shall have—

(i) on the obverse side, a design symbolic of Liberty; and

(ii) on the reverse side, a design representing a family of eagles, with the male carrying an olive branch and flying above a nest containing a female eagle and hatchlings;

(B) have inscriptions of the denomination, the weight of the fine gold content, the year of minting or issuance, and the words “Liberty”, “In God We Trust”, “United States of America”, and “E Pluribus Unum”; and

(C) have reeded edges.

(2)

(A) The Secretary shall sell the coins minted under this subsection to the public at a price equal to the market value of the bullion at the time of sale, plus the cost of minting, marketing, and distributing such coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and promotional and overhead expenses).

(B) The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins minted under this subsection at a reasonable discount.

(3) For purposes of [section 5132(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5132/a/1), all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(4)

(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary of the Treasury may change the diameter, weight, or design of any coin minted under this subsection or the fineness of the gold in the alloy of any such coin if the Secretary determines that the specific diameter, weight, design, or fineness of gold which differs from that otherwise required by law is appropriate for such coin.

(B) The Secretary may not mint any coin with respect to which a determination has been made by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date a notice of such determination is published in the Federal Register.

(C) The Secretary may continue to mint and issue coins in accordance with the specifications contained in paragraphs (7), (8), (9), and (10) of subsection (a) and paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection at the same time the Secretary in minting and issuing other bullion and proof gold coins under this subsection in accordance with such program procedures and coin specifications, designs, varieties, quantities, denominations, and inscriptions as the Secretary, in the Secretary’s discretion, may prescribe from time to time.

(j) General Waiver of Procurement Regulations.—

(1) In general.— Except as provided in paragraph (2), no provision of law governing procurement or public contracts shall be applicable to the procurement of goods or services necessary for minting, marketing, or issuing any coin authorized under paragraph (7), (8), (9), or (10) of subsection (a) or subsection (e), including any proof version of any such coin.

(2) Equal employment opportunity.— Paragraph (1) shall not relieve any person entering into a contract with respect to any coin referred to in such paragraph from complying with any law relating to equal employment opportunity.

(k) The Secretary may mint and issue platinum bullion coins and proof platinum coins in accordance with such specifications, designs, varieties, quantities, denominations, and inscriptions as the Secretary, in the Secretary’s discretion, may prescribe from time to time.

(l) Redesign and Issuance of Quarter Dollar in Commemoration of Each of the 50 States.—

(1) Redesign beginning in 1999.—

(A) In general.— Notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2), quarter dollar coins issued during the 10-year period beginning in 1999, shall have designs on the reverse side selected in accordance with this subsection which are emblematic of the 50 States.

(B) Transition provision.— Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the Secretary may continue to mint and issue quarter dollars in 1999 which bear the design in effect before the redesign required under this subsection and an inscription of the year “1998” as required to ensure a smooth transition into the 10-year program under this subsection.

(C) Flexibility with regard to placement of inscriptions.— Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), the Secretary may select a design for quarter dollars issued during the 10-year period referred to in subparagraph (A) in which—

(i) the inscription described in the second sentence of subsection (d)(1) appears on the reverse side of any such quarter dollars; and

(ii) any inscription described in the third sentence of subsection (d)(1) or the designation of the value of the coin appears on the obverse side of any such quarter dollars.

(2) Single state designs.— The design on the reverse side of each quarter dollar issued during the 10-year period referred to in paragraph (1) shall be emblematic of 1 of the 50 States.

(3) Issuance of coins commemorating 5 states during each of the 10 years.—

(A) In general.— The designs for the quarter dollar coins issued during each year of the 10-year period referred to in paragraph (1) shall be emblematic of 5 States selected in the order in which such States ratified the Constitution of the United States or were admitted into the Union, as the case may be.

(B) Number of each of 5 coin designs in each year.— Of the quarter dollar coins issued during each year of the 10-year period referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the number of quarter dollars which shall be issued with each of the 5 designs selected for such year.

(4) Selection of design.—

(A) In general.— Each of the 50 designs required under this subsection for quarter dollars shall be—

(i) selected by the Secretary after consultation with—

(I) the Governor of the State being commemorated, or such other State officials or group as the State may designate for such purpose; and

(II) the Commission of Fine Arts; and

(ii) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(B) Selection and approval process.— Designs for quarter dollars may be submitted in accordance with the design selection and approval process developed by the Secretary in the sole discretion of the Secretary.

(C) Participation.— The Secretary may include participation by State officials, artists from the States, engravers of the United States Mint, and members of the general public.

(D) Standards.— Because it is important that the Nation’s coinage and currency bear dignified designs of which the citizens of the United States can be proud, the Secretary shall not select any frivolous or inappropriate design for any quarter dollar minted under this subsection.

(E) Prohibition on certain representations.— No head and shoulders portrait or bust of any person, living or dead, and no portrait of a living person may be included in the design of any quarter dollar under this subsection.

(5) Treatment as numismatic items.— For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136, all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(6) Issuance.—

(A) Quality of coins.— The Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter dollars of each design selected under paragraph (4) in uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(B) Silver coins.— Notwithstanding subsection (b), the Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter dollars of each design selected under paragraph (4) as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, with a content of 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.

(C) Sources of bullion.— The Secretary shall obtain silver for minting coins under subparagraph (B) from available resources, including stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act.

(7) Application in event of the admission of additional states.— If any additional State is admitted into the Union before the end of the 10-year period referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Treasury may issue quarter dollar coins, in accordance with this subsection, with a design which is emblematic of such State during any 1 year of such 10-year period, in addition to the quarter dollar coins issued during such year in accordance with paragraph (3)(A).

(m) Commemorative Coin Program Restrictions.—

(1) Maximum number.— Beginning January 1, 1999, the Secretary may mint and issue commemorative coins under this section during any calendar year with respect to not more than 2 commemorative coin programs.

(2) Mintage levels.—

(A) In general.— Except as provided in subparagraph (B), in carrying out any commemorative coin program, the Secretary shall mint—

(i) not more than 750,000 clad half-dollar coins;

(ii) not more than 500,000 silver one-dollar coins; and

(iii) not more than 100,000 gold five-dollar or ten-dollar coins.

(B) Exception.— If the Secretary determines, based on independent, market-based research conducted by a designated recipient organization of a commemorative coin program, that the mintage levels described in subparagraph (A) are not adequate to meet public demand for that commemorative coin, the Secretary may waive one or more of the requirements of subparagraph (A) with respect to that commemorative coin program.

(C) Designated recipient organization defined.— For purposes of this paragraph, the term “designated recipient organization” means any organization designated, under any provision of law, as the recipient of any surcharge imposed on the sale of any numismatic item.

(n) Redesign and Issuance of Circulating $1 Coins Honoring Each of the Presidents of the United States.—

(1) Redesign beginning in 2007.— Notwithstanding subsection (d) and in accordance with the provisions of this subsection, $1 coins issued during the period beginning January 1, 2007, and ending upon the termination of the program under paragraph (8), shall—

(A) have designs on the obverse selected in accordance with paragraph (2)(B) which are emblematic of the Presidents of the United States; and

(B) have a design on the reverse selected in accordance with paragraph (2)(A).

(2) Design requirements.— The $1 coins issued in accordance with paragraph (1)(A) shall meet the following design requirements:

(A) Coin reverse.— The design on the reverse shall bear—

(i) a likeness of the Statue of Liberty extending to the rim of the coin and large enough to provide a dramatic representation of Liberty while not being large enough to create the impression of a “2-headed” coin;

(ii) the inscription “$1”; and

(iii) the inscription “United States of America”.

(B) Coin obverse.— The design on the obverse shall contain—

(i) the name and likeness of a President of the United States; and

(ii) basic information about the President, including—

(I) the dates or years of the term of office of such President; and

(II) a number indicating the order of the period of service in which the President served.

(C) Edge-incused inscriptions.—

(i) In general.— The inscription of the year of minting or issuance of the coin and the inscription “E Pluribus Unum” shall be edge-incused into the coin.

(ii) Preservation of distinctive edge.— The edge-incusing of the inscriptions under clause (i) on coins issued under this subsection shall be done in a manner that preserves the distinctive edge of the coin so that the denomination of the coin is readily discernible, including by individuals who are blind or visually impaired.

(D) Inscriptions of “liberty”.— Notwithstanding the second sentence of subsection (d)(1), because the use of a design bearing the likeness of the Statue of Liberty on the reverse of the coins issued under this subsection adequately conveys the concept of Liberty, the inscription of “Liberty” shall not appear on the coins.

(E) Limitation in series to deceased presidents.— No coin issued under this subsection may bear the image of a living former or current President, or of any deceased former President during the 2-year period following the date of the death of that President.

(F) Inscription of “in god we trust”.— The design on the obverse or the reverse shall bear the inscription “In God We Trust”.

(3) Issuance of coins commemorating presidents.—

(A) Order of issuance.— The coins issued under this subsection commemorating Presidents of the United States shall be issued in the order of the period of service of each President, beginning with President George Washington.

(B) Treatment of period of service.—

(i) In general.— Subject to clause (ii), only 1 coin design shall be issued for a period of service for any President, no matter how many consecutive terms of office the President served.

(ii) Nonconsecutive terms.— If a President has served during 2 or more nonconsecutive periods of service, a coin shall be issued under this subsection for each such nonconsecutive period of service.

(4) Issuance of coins commemorating 4 presidents during each year of the period.—

(A) In general.— The designs for the $1 coins issued during each year of the period referred to in paragraph (1) shall be emblematic of 4 Presidents until each President has been so honored, subject to paragraph (2)(E).

(B) Number of 4 circulating coin designs in each year.— The Secretary shall prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the number of $1 coins that shall be issued with each of the designs selected for each year of the period referred to in paragraph (1).

(5) Legal tender.— The coins minted under this title shall be legal tender, as provided in section 5103.

(6) Treatment as numismatic items.— For purposes of section 11 So in original. Probably should be “sections”. 5134 and 5136, all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(7) Issuance of numismatic coins.— The Secretary may mint and issue such number of $1 coins of each design selected under this subsection in uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(8) Termination of program.— The issuance of coins under this subsection shall terminate when each President has been so honored, subject to paragraph (2)(E), and may not be resumed except by an Act of Congress.

(9) Reversion to preceding design.— Upon the termination of the issuance of coins under this subsection, the design of all $1 coins shall revert to the so-called “Sacagawea-design” $1 coins.

(o) First Spouse Bullion Coin Program.—

(1) In general.— During the same period described in subsection (n), the Secretary shall issue bullion coins under this subsection that are emblematic of the spouse of each such President.

(2) Specifications.— The coins issued under this subsection shall—

(A) have the same diameter as the $1 coins described in subsection (n);

(B) weigh 0.5 ounce; and

(C) contain 99.99 percent pure gold.

(3) Design requirements.—

(A) Coin obverse.— The design on the obverse of each coin issued under this subsection shall contain—

(i) the name and likeness of a person who was a spouse of a President during the President’s period of service;

(ii) an inscription of the years during which such person was the spouse of a President during the President’s period of service; and

(iii) a number indicating the order of the period of service in which such President served.

(B) Coin reverse.— The design on the reverse of each coin issued under this subsection shall bear—

(i) images emblematic of the life and work of the First Spouse whose image is borne on the obverse; and

(ii) the inscription “United States of America”.

(C) Designated denomination.— Each coin issued under this subsection shall bear, on the reverse, an inscription of the nominal denomination of the coin which shall be “$10”.

(D) Design in case of no first spouse.— In the case of any President who served without a spouse—

(i) the image on the obverse of the bullion coin corresponding to the $1 coin relating to such President shall be an image emblematic of the concept of “Liberty”—

(I) as represented on a United States coin issued during the period of service of such President; or

(II) as represented, in the case of President Chester Alan Arthur, by a design incorporating the name and likeness of Alice Paul, a leading strategist in the suffrage movement, who was instrumental in gaining women the right to vote upon the adoption of the 19th amendment and thus the ability to participate in the election of future Presidents, and who was born on January 11, 1885, during the term of President Arthur; and

(ii) the reverse of such bullion coin shall be of a design representative of themes of such President, except that in the case of the bullion coin referred to in clause (i)(II) the reverse of such coin shall be representative of the suffrage movement.

(E) Design and coin for each spouse.— A separate coin shall be designed and issued under this section for each person who was the spouse of a President during any portion of a term of office of such President.

(F) Inscriptions.— Each bullion coin issued under this subsection shall bear the inscription of the year of minting or issuance of the coin and such other inscriptions as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate.

(4) Sale of bullion coins.— Each bullion coin issued under this subsection shall be sold by the Secretary at a price that is equal to or greater than the sum of—

(A) the face value of the coins; and

(B) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping).

(5) Issuance of coins commemorating first spouses.—

(A) In general.— The bullion coins issued under this subsection with respect to any spouse of a President shall be issued on the same schedule as the $1 coin issued under subsection (n) with respect to each such President.

(B) Maximum number of bullion coins for each design.— The Secretary shall—

(i) prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the maximum number of bullion coins that shall be issued with each of the designs selected under this subsection; and

(ii) announce, before the issuance of the bullion coins of each such design, the maximum number of bullion coins of that design that will be issued.

(C) Termination of program.— No bullion coin may be issued under this subsection after the termination, in accordance with subsection (n)(8), of the $1 coin program established under subsection (n).

(6) Quality of coins.— The bullion coins minted under this Act shall be issued in both proof and uncirculated qualities.

(7) Source of gold bullion.—

(A) In general.— The Secretary shall acquire gold for the coins issued under this subsection by purchase of gold mined from natural deposits in the United States, or in a territory or possession of the United States, within 1 year after the month in which the ore from which it is derived was mined.

(B) Price of gold.— The Secretary shall pay not more than the average world price for the gold mined under subparagraph (A).

(8) Bronze medals.— The Secretary may strike and sell bronze medals that bear the likeness of the bullion coins authorized under this subsection, at a price, size, and weight, and with such inscriptions, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(9) Legal tender.— The coins minted under this title shall be legal tender, as provided in section 5103.

(10) Treatment as numismatic items.— For purposes of section ^1 5134 and 5136, all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(p) Removal of Barriers to Circulation of $1 Coin.—

This paragraph does not apply with respect to business operations conducted by any entity under a contract with an agency or instrumentality of the United States, including with any nonappropriated fund instrumentality established under title 10.

(1) Acceptance by agencies and instrumentalities.— Beginning January 1, 2006, all agencies and instrumentalities of the United States, the United States Postal Service, all nonappropriated fund instrumentalities established under title 10, and all transit systems that receive operational subsidies or any disbursement of funds from the Federal Government, such as funds from the Federal Highway Trust Fund, including the Mass Transit Account, shall take such action as may be appropriate to ensure that by the end of the 2-year period beginning on such date—

(A) any business operations conducted by any such agency, instrumentality, system, or entity that involve coins or currency will be fully capable of—

(i) accepting $1 coins in connection with such operations; and

(ii) other than vending machines that do not receive currency denominations higher than $1, dispensing $1 coins in connection with such operations; and

(B) display signs and notices denoting such capability on the premises where coins or currency are accepted or dispensed, including on each vending machine.

(2) Publicity.— The Director of the United States Mint,22 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. shall work closely with consumer groups, media outlets, and schools to ensure an adequate amount of news coverage, and other means of increasing public awareness, of the inauguration of the Presidential $1 Coin Program established in subsection (n) to ensure that consumers know of the availability of the coin.

(3) Coordination.— The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Secretary shall take steps to ensure that an adequate supply of $1 coins is available for commerce and collectors at such places and in such quantities as are appropriate by—

(A) consulting, to accurately gauge demand for coins and to anticipate and eliminate obstacles to the easy and efficient distribution and circulation of $1 coins as well as all other circulating coins, from time to time but no less frequently than annually, with a coin users group, which may include—

(i) representatives of merchants who would benefit from the increased usage of $1 coins;

(ii) vending machine and other coin acceptor manufacturers;

(iii) vending machine owners and operators;

(iv) transit officials;

(v) municipal parking officials;

(vi) depository institutions;

(vii) coin and currency handlers;

(viii) armored-car operators;

(ix) car wash operators; and

(x) coin collectors and dealers;

(B) submitting an annual report to the Congress containing—

(i) an assessment of the remaining obstacles to the efficient and timely circulation of coins, particularly $1 coins;

(ii) an assessment of the extent to which the goals of subparagraph (C) are being met; and

(iii) such recommendations for legislative action the Board and the Secretary may determine to be appropriate;

(C) consulting with industry representatives to encourage operators of vending machines and other automated coin-accepting devices in the United States to accept coins issued under the Presidential $1 Coin Program established under subsection (n) and any coins bearing any design in effect before the issuance of coins required under subsection (n) (including the so-called “Sacagawea-design” $1 coins), and to include notices on the machines and devices of such acceptability;

(D) ensuring that—

(i) during an introductory period, all institutions that want unmixed supplies of each newly-issued design of $1 coins minted under subsections (n) and (*o*) are able to obtain such unmixed supplies; and

(ii) circulating coins will be available for ordinary commerce in packaging of sizes and types appropriate for and useful to ordinary commerce, including rolled coins;

(E) working closely with any agency, instrumentality, system, or entity referred to in paragraph (1) to facilitate compliance with the requirements of such paragraph; and

(F) identifying, analyzing, and overcoming barriers to the robust circulation of $1 coins minted under subsections (n) and (*o*), including the use of demand prediction, improved methods of distribution and circulation, and improved public education and awareness campaigns.

(4) Bullion dealers.— The Director of the United States Mint shall take all steps necessary to ensure that a maximum number of reputable, reliable, and responsible dealers are qualified to offer for sale all bullion coins struck and issued by the United States Mint.

(5) Review of co-circulation.— At such time as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, and after consultation with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Secretary shall notify the Congress of its assessment of issues related to the co-circulation of any circulating $1 coin bearing any design, other than the so-called “Sacagawea-design” $1 coin, in effect before the issuance of coins required under subsection (n), including the effect of co-circulation on the acceptance and use of $1 coins, and make recommendations to the Congress for improving the circulation of $1 coins.

(q) Gold Bullion Coins.—

(1) In general.— Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of the Presidential $1 Coin Act of 2005, the Secretary shall commence striking and issuing for sale such number of $50 gold bullion and proof coins as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate, in such quantities, as the Secretary, in the Secretary’s discretion, may prescribe.

(2) Initial design.—

(A) In general.— Except as provided under subparagraph (B), the obverse and reverse of the gold bullion coins struck under this subsection during the first year of issuance shall bear the original designs by James Earle Fraser, which appear on the 5-cent coin commonly referred to as the “Buffalo nickel” or the “1913 Type 1”.

(B) Variations.— The coins referred to in subparagraph (A) shall—

(i) have inscriptions of the weight of the coin and the nominal denomination of the coin incused in that portion of the design on the reverse of the coin commonly known as the “grassy mound”; and

(ii) bear such other inscriptions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(3) Source of gold bullion.—

(A) In general.— The Secretary shall acquire gold for the coins issued under this subsection by purchase of gold mined from natural deposits in the United States, or in a territory or possession of the United States, within 1 year after the month in which the ore from which it is derived was mined.

(B) Price of gold.— The Secretary shall pay not more than the average world price for the gold mined under subparagraph (A).

(4) Sale of coins.— Each gold bullion coin issued under this subsection shall be sold for an amount the Secretary determines to be appropriate, but not less than the sum of—

(A) the market value of the bullion at the time of sale; and

(B) the cost of designing and issuing the coins, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping.

(5) Legal tender.— The coins minted under this title shall be legal tender, as provided in section 5103.

(6) Treatment as numismatic items.— For purposes of section ^1 5134 and 5136, all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(r) Redesign and Issuance of Circulating $1 Coins Honoring Native Americans and the Important Contributions Made by Indian Tribes and Individual Native Americans in United States History.—

(1) Redesign beginning in 2008.—

(A) In general.— Effective beginning January 1, 2008, notwithstanding subsection (d), in addition to the coins to be issued pursuant to subsection (n), and in accordance with this subsection, the Secretary shall mint and issue $1 coins that—

(i) have as the designs on the obverse the so-called “Sacagawea design”; and

(ii) have a design on the reverse selected in accordance with paragraph (2)(A), subject to paragraph (3)(A).

(B) Delayed date.— If the date of the enactment of the Native American $1 Coin Act is after August 25, 2007, subparagraph (A) shall be applied by substituting “2009” for “2008”.

(2) Design requirements.— The $1 coins issued in accordance with paragraph (1) shall meet the following design requirements:

(A) Coin reverse.— The design on the reverse shall bear—

(i) images celebrating the important contributions made by Indian tribes and individual Native Americans to the development of the United States and the history of the United States;

(ii) the inscription “$1”; and

(iii) the inscription “United States of America”.

(B) Coin obverse.— The design on the obverse shall—

(i) be chosen by the Secretary, after consultation with the Commission of Fine Arts and review by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee; and

(ii) contain the so-called “Sacagawea design” and the inscription “Liberty”.

(C) Edge-incused inscriptions.—

(i) In general.— The inscription of the year of minting and issuance of the coin and the inscription “E Pluribus Unum” shall be edge-incused into the coin.

(ii) Preservation of distinctive edge.— The edge-incusing of the inscriptions under clause (i) on coins issued under this subsection shall be done in a manner that preserves the distinctive edge of the coin so that the denomination of the coin is readily discernible, including by individuals who are blind or visually impaired.

(D) Reverse design selection.— The designs selected for the reverse of the coins described under this subsection—

(i) shall be chosen by the Secretary after consultation with the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate, the Congressional Native American Caucus of the House of Representatives, the Commission of Fine Arts, and the National Congress of American Indians;

(ii) shall be reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee;

(iii) may depict individuals and events such as—

(I) the creation of Cherokee written language;

(II) the Iroquois Confederacy;

(III) Wampanoag Chief Massasoit;

(IV) the “Pueblo Revolt”;

(V) Olympian Jim Thorpe;

(VI) Ely S. Parker, a general on the staff of General Ulysses S. Grant and later head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs; and

(VII) code talkers who served the United States Armed Forces during World War I and World War II; and

(iv) in the case of a design depicting the contribution of an individual Native American to the development of the United States and the history of the United States, shall not depict the individual in a size such that the coin could be considered to be a “2-headed” coin.

(E) Inscription of “in god we trust”.— The design on the obverse or the reverse shall bear the inscription “In God We Trust”.

(3) Issuance of coins commemorating 1 native american event during each year.—

(A) In general.— Each design for the reverse of the $1 coins issued during each year shall be emblematic of 1 important Native American or Native American contribution each year.

(B) Issuance period.— Each $1 coin minted with a design on the reverse in accordance with this subsection for any year shall be issued during the 1-year period beginning on January 1 of that year and shall be available throughout the entire 1-year period.

(C) Order of issuance of designs.— Each coin issued under this subsection commemorating Native Americans and their contributions—

(i) shall be issued, to the maximum extent practicable, in the chronological order in which the Native Americans lived or the events occurred, until the termination of the coin program described in subsection (n); and

(ii) thereafter shall be issued in any order determined to be appropriate by the Secretary, after consultation with the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate, the Congressional Native American Caucus of the House of Representatives, and the National Congress of American Indians.

(4) Issuance of numismatic coins.— The Secretary may mint and issue such number of $1 coins of each design selected under this subsection in uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(5) Quantity.— The number of $1 coins minted and issued in a year with the Sacagawea-design on the obverse shall be not less than 20 percent of the total number of $1 coins minted and issued in such year.

(s) Redesign and Issuance of Circulating Quarter Dollar Honoring the District of Columbia and Each of the Territories.—

(1) Redesign in 2009.—

(A) In general.— Notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2) and subject to paragraph (6)(B), quarter dollar coins issued during 2009, shall have designs on the reverse side selected in accordance with this subsection which are emblematic of the District of Columbia and the territories.

(B) Flexibility with regard to placement of inscriptions.— Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), the Secretary may select a design for quarter dollars issued during 2009 in which—

(i) the inscription described in the second sentence of subsection (d)(1) appears on the reverse side of any such quarter dollars; and

(ii) any inscription described in the third sentence of subsection (d)(1) or the designation of the value of the coin appears on the obverse side of any such quarter dollars.

(2) Single district or territory design.— The design on the reverse side of each quarter dollar issued during 2009 shall be emblematic of one of the following: The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(3) Selection of design.—

(A) In general.— Each of the 6 designs required under this subsection for quarter dollars shall be—

(i) selected by the Secretary after consultation with—

(I) the chief executive of the District of Columbia or the territory being honored, or such other officials or group as the chief executive officer of the District of Columbia or the territory may designate for such purpose; and

(II) the Commission of Fine Arts; and

(ii) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(B) Selection and approval process.— Designs for quarter dollars may be submitted in accordance with the design selection and approval process developed by the Secretary in the sole discretion of the Secretary.

(C) Participation.— The Secretary may include participation by District or territorial officials, artists from the District of Columbia or the territory, engravers of the United States Mint, and members of the general public.

(D) Standards.— Because it is important that the Nation’s coinage and currency bear dignified designs of which the citizens of the United States can be proud, the Secretary shall not select any frivolous or inappropriate design for any quarter dollar minted under this subsection.

(E) Prohibition on certain representations.— No head and shoulders portrait or bust of any person, living or dead, and no portrait of a living person may be included in the design of any quarter dollar under this subsection.

(4) Treatment as numismatic items.— For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136, all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(5) Issuance.—

(A) Quality of coins.— The Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter dollars of each design selected under paragraph (3) in uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(B) Silver coins.— Notwithstanding subsection (b), the Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter dollars of each design selected under paragraph (3) as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, with a content of 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.

(C) Timing and order of issuance.— Coins minted under this subsection honoring the District of Columbia and each of the territories shall be issued in equal sequential intervals during 2009 in the following order: the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(6) Other provisions.—

(A) Application in event of admission as a state.— If the District of Columbia or any territory becomes a State before the end of the 10-year period referred to in subsection (*l*)(1), subsection (*l*)(7) shall apply, and this subsection shall not apply, with respect to such State.

(B) Application in event of independence.— If any territory becomes independent or otherwise ceases to be a territory or possession of the United States before quarter dollars bearing designs which are emblematic of such territory are minted pursuant to this subsection, this subsection shall cease to apply with respect to such territory.

(7) Territory defined.— For purposes of this subsection, the term “territory” means the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(t) Redesign and Issuance of Quarter Dollars Emblematic of National Sites in Each State, the District of Columbia, and Each Territory.—

(1) Redesign beginning upon completion of prior program.—

(A) In general.— Notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2), quarter dollars issued beginning in 2010 shall have designs on the reverse selected in accordance with this subsection which are emblematic of the national sites in the States, the District of Columbia and the territories of the United States.

(B) Flexibility with regard to placement of inscriptions.— Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), the Secretary may select a design for quarter dollars referred to in subparagraph (A) in which—

(i) the inscription described in the second sentence of subsection (d)(1) appears on the reverse side of any such quarter dollars; and

(ii) any inscription described in the third sentence of subsection (d)(1) or the designation of the value of the coin appears on the obverse side of any such quarter dollars.

(C) Inclusion of district of columbia, and territories.— For purposes of this subsection, the term “State” has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

(2) Single site in each state.— The design on the reverse side of each quarter dollar issued during the period of issuance under this subsection shall be emblematic of 1 national site in each State.

(3) Selection of site and design.—

(A) Site.—

(i) In general.— The selection of a national park or other national site in each State to be honored with a coin under this subsection shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the governor or other chief executive of each State with respect to which a coin is to be issued under this subsection, and after giving full and thoughtful consideration to national sites that are not under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior so that the national site chosen for each State shall be the most appropriate in terms of natural or historic significance.

(ii) Timing.— The selection process under clause (i) shall be completed before the end of the 270-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of the America’s Beautiful National Parks Quarter Dollar Coin Act of 2008.

(B) Design.— Each of the designs required under this subsection for quarter dollars shall be—

(i) selected by the Secretary after consultation with—

(I) the Secretary of the Interior; and

(II) the Commission of Fine Arts; and

(ii) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(C) Selection and approval process.— Recommendations for site selections and designs for quarter dollars may be submitted in accordance with the site and design selection and approval process developed by the Secretary in the sole discretion of the Secretary.

(D) Participation in design.— The Secretary may include participation by officials of the State, artists from the State, engravers of the United States Mint, and members of the general public.

(E) Standards.— Because it is important that the Nation’s coinage and currency bear dignified designs of which the citizens of the United States can be proud, the Secretary shall not select any frivolous or inappropriate design for any quarter dollar minted under this subsection.

(F) Prohibition on certain representations.— No head and shoulders portrait or bust of any person, living or dead, no portrait of a living person, and no outline or map of a State may be included in the design on the reverse of any quarter dollar under this subsection.

(4) Issuance of coins.—

(A) Order of issuance.— The quarter dollar coins issued under this subsection bearing designs of national sites shall be issued in the order in which the sites selected under paragraph (3) were first established as a national site.

(B) Rate of issuance.— The quarter dollar coins bearing designs of national sites under this subsection shall be issued at the rate of 5 new designs during each year of the period of issuance under this subsection.

(C) Number of each of 5 coin designs in each year.— Of the quarter dollar coins issued during each year of the period of issuance, the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the number of quarter dollars which shall be issued with each of the designs selected for such year.

(5) Treatment as numismatic items.— For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136, all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(6) Issuance.—

(A) Quality of coins.— The Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter dollars of each design selected under paragraph (3) in uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(B) Silver coins.— Notwithstanding subsection (b), the Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter dollars of each design selected under paragraph (3) as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, with a content of not less than 90 percent silver.

(7) Period of issuance.—

(A) In general.— Subject to paragraph (2), the program established under this subsection shall continue in effect until a national site in each State has been honored.

(B) Second round at discretion of secretary.—

(i) Determination.— The Secretary may make a determination before the end of the 9-year period beginning when the first quarter dollar is issued under this subsection to continue the period of issuance until a second national site in each State, the District of Columbia, and each territory referred to in this subsection has been honored with a design on a quarter dollar.

(ii) Notice and report.— Within 30 days after making a determination under clause (i), the Secretary shall submit a written report on such determination to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

(iii) Applicability of provisions.— If the Secretary makes a determination under clause (i), the provisions of this subsection applicable to site and design selection and approval, the order, timing, and conditions of issuance shall apply in like manner as the initial issuance of quarter dollars under this subsection, except that the issuance of quarter dollars pursuant to such determination bearing the first design shall commence in order immediately following the last issuance of quarter dollars under the first round.

(iv) Continuation until all states are honored.— If the Secretary makes a determination under clause (i), the program under this subsection shall continue until a second site in each State has been so honored.

(8) Designs after end of program.— Upon the completion of the coin program under this subsection, the design on—

(A) the obverse of the quarter dollar shall revert to the same design containing an image of President Washington in effect for the quarter dollar before the institution of the 50-State quarter dollar program; and

(B) notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1), the reverse of the quarter dollar shall contain an image of General Washington crossing the Delaware River prior to the Battle of Trenton.

(9) National site.— For purposes of this subsection, the term “national site” means any site under the supervision, management, or conservancy of the National Park Service, the United States Forest Service, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, or any similar department or agency of the Federal Government, including any national park, national monument, national battlefield, national military park, national historical park, national historic site, national lakeshore, seashore, recreation area, parkway, scenic river, or trail and any site in the National Wildlife Refuge System.

(10) Application in event of independence.— If any territory becomes independent or otherwise ceases to be a territory or possession of the United States before quarter dollars bearing designs which are emblematic of such territory are minted pursuant to this subsection, this subsection shall cease to apply with respect to such territory.

(u) Silver Bullion Investment Product.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary is authorized to strike and make available for sale such number of bullion coins as the Secretary determines to be appropriate that feature the designs of the quarter dollars and half dollars issued under subsections (x), (y), and (z), that—

(A) have a diameter of 3.0 inches and weigh 5.0 ounces;

(B) contain .999 fine silver;

(C) have incused into the edge the fineness and weight of the bullion coin; and

(D) bear an inscription of the denomination of such coins, such denominations to be determined by the Secretary as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(2) Fractionals.— The Secretary is authorized to mint and issue so-called “fractional” silver bullion coins bearing the designs of the quarter dollars and half dollars issued under subsections (x), (y), and (z) in sizes, weights, fineness, and denominations, and with inscriptions, that the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(3) Availability for sale.— Should the Secretary exercise the Secretary’s discretion to strike bullion coins under this subsection, the bullion coins minted under paragraph (1) shall become available for sale no sooner than the first day of the calendar year in which the corresponding circulating quarter dollar or half dollar is issued.

(4) Continuity.— Until the conclusion of the quarter dollar program authorized under subsection (t), the Secretary shall strike and make available for sale such number of bullion coins as the Secretary determines to be appropriate that are likenesses of the quarter dollars issued under subsection (t).

(v) Palladium Bullion Investment Coins.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary shall mint and issue the palladium coins described in paragraph (12) of subsection (a) in such quantities as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate to meet demand.

(2) Source of bullion.—

(A) In general.— To the greatest extent possible, the Secretary shall acquire bullion for the palladium coins issued under this subsection by purchase of palladium mined from natural deposits in the United States, or in a territory or possession of the United States, within 1 year after the month in which the ore from which it is derived was mined. If no such palladium is available or if it is not economically feasible to obtain such palladium, the Secretary may obtain palladium for the palladium coins described in paragraph (12) of subsection (a) from other available sources.

(B) Price of bullion.— The Secretary shall pay not more than the average world price for the palladium under subparagraph (A).

(3) Sale of coins.— Each coin issued under this subsection shall be sold for an amount the Secretary determines to be appropriate, but not less than the sum of—

(A) the market value of the bullion at the time of sale; and

(B) the cost of designing and issuing the coins, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, distribution, and shipping.

(4) Treatment.— For purposes of section 5134 and 5136, all coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(5) Quality.— The Secretary may issue collectible versions of the coins described in paragraph (1) in both proof and uncirculated versions, except that, should the Secretary determine that it is appropriate to issue proof or uncirculated versions of such coin, the Secretary shall, to the greatest extent possible, ensure that the surface treatment of each year’s proof or uncirculated version differs in some material way from that of the preceding year.

(6) Design.— Coins minted and issued under this subsection shall bear designs on the obverse and reverse that are close likenesses of the work of famed American coin designer and medallic artist Adolph Alexander Weinman—

(A) the obverse shall bear a high-relief likeness of the “Winged Liberty” design used on the obverse of the so-called “Mercury dime”;

(B) the reverse shall bear a high-relief version of the reverse design of the 1907 American Institute of Architects medal; and

(C) the coin shall bear such other inscriptions, including “Liberty”, “In God We Trust”, “United States of America”, the denomination and weight of the coin and the fineness of the metal, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate and in keeping with the original design.

(7) Mint facility.— Any United States mint, other than the United States Mint at West Point, New York, may be used to strike coins minted under this subsection other than any proof version of any such coin. If the Secretary determines that it is appropriate to issue any proof version of such coin, coins of such version shall be struck only at the United States Mint at West Point, New York.

(w) Redesign and Issuance of$1Coins Honoring Innovation and Innovators From Each State, the District of Columbia, and Each Territory.—

(1) Redesign beginning in 2019.—

(A) In general.— Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2) and in accordance with the provisions of this subsection, during the 14-year period beginning on January 1, 2019 (or such later date as provided under subparagraph (B)(ii)), the Secretary of the Treasury shall mint and issue $1 coins to be known as “American Innovation $1 coins”, that—

(i) have designs on the obverse selected in accordance with paragraph (2)(A); and

(ii) have a design on the reverse selected in accordance with paragraph (2)(B).

(B) Continuity provisions.—

(i) In general.— Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall continue to mint and issue $1 coins honoring Native Americans and their contributions in accordance with subsection (r).

(ii) First coin.— Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if the Secretary finds that it is feasible and cost-effective, the Secretary may mint and issue a $1 coin in 2018 to introduce the series of coins described in this subsection, that—

(I) has the obverse described under paragraph (2)(A);

(II) has a reverse that bears the inscription “United States of America” and “American Innovators” and a representation of the signature of President George Washington on the first United States patent issued;

(III) has the edge-incusing described under paragraph (2)(C); and

(IV) the design for which has reviewed by 33 So in original. the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(C) Definition of territory.— For purposes of this subsection, the term “territory” means the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(2) Design requirements.— Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2), the $1 coins issued in accordance with paragraph (1)(A) shall meet the following design requirements:

(A) Coin obverse.— The common design on the obverse of each coin issued under this subsection shall contain—

(i) a likeness of the Statue of Liberty extending to the rim of the coin and large enough to provide a dramatic representation of Liberty;

(ii) the inscription “$1”; and

(iii) the inscription “In God We Trust”.

(B) Coin reverse.— The design on the reverse of each coin issued under this subsection shall bear the following:

(i) An image or images emblematic of one of the following from one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or the territories of the United States:

(I) A significant innovation.

(II) An innovator.

(III) A group of innovators.

(ii) The name of the State, the District of Columbia, or territory, as applicable.

(iii) The inscription “United States of America”.

(C) Edge-incused inscriptions.—

(i) In general.— The inscription of the year of minting or issuance of the coin, the mint mark, and the inscription “E Pluribus Unum” shall be edge-incused into the coin.

(ii) Preservation of distinctive edge.— The edge-incusing of the inscriptions under clause (i) on coins issued under this subsection shall be done in a manner that preserves the distinctive edge of the coin so that the denomination of the coin is readily discernible, including by individuals who are blind or visually impaired.

(3) Issuance of coins commemorating innovation or innovators.—

(A) Order of issuance.—

(i) In general.— The coins issued under this subsection commemorating either an innovation, an individual innovator, or a group of innovators, from each State, the District of Columbia, or a territory shall be issued in the following order:

(I) State.— With respect to each State, the coins shall be issued in the order in which the States ratified the Constitution of the United States or were admitted into the Union, as the case may be.

(II) District of columbia and territories.— After all coins are issued under subclause (I), the coins shall be issued for the District of Columbia and the territories in the following order: the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(ii) Application in event of the admission of additional states.— Notwithstanding clause (i), if any additional State is admitted into the Union before the end of the 14-year period referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Treasury may issue a $1 coin with respect to the additional State in accordance with clause (i)(I).

(iii) Application in the event of independence or adding of a territory.— Notwithstanding clause (i)—

(I) if any territory becomes independent or otherwise ceases to be a territory of the United States before $1 coins are minted pursuant to this subsection, the subsection shall cease to apply with respect to such territory; and

(II) if any new territory is added to the United States, $1 coins shall be issued for such territories in the order in which the new the territories are added, beginning after the $1 coin is issued for the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(B) Issuance of coins commemorating four innovations or innovators during each of 14 years.—

(i) In general.— Four $1 coin designs as described in this subsection shall be issued during each year of the period referred to in paragraph (1) until 1 coin featuring 1 innovation, an individual innovator, or a group of innovators, from each of the States, the District of Columbia, and territories has been issued.

(ii) Number of coins of each design.— The Secretary shall prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the number of $1 coins that shall be issued with each of the designs selected for each year of the period referred to in paragraph (1).

(4) Selection of concept and design.—

(A) Concept.— With respect to each State, the District of Columbia, and each territory to be honored with a coin under this subsection, the selection of the significant innovation, innovator, or group of innovators to be borne on the reverse of such coin shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Governor or other chief executive of the State, the District of Columbia, or territory with respect to which a coin is to be issued under this subsection.

(B) Design.— Each of the designs required under this subsection shall be selected by the Secretary after—

(i) consultation with—

(I) the Governor or other chief executive of the State, the District of Columbia, or territory with respect to which a coin is to be issued under this subsection; and

(II) the Commission of Fine Arts; and

(ii) review by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(C) Selection and approval process.— Proposals for designs for $1 coins under this subsection may be submitted in accordance with the design selection and approval process developed by the Secretary in the sole discretion of the Secretary.

(D) Standards.— Because it is important that the Nation’s coinage and currency bear dignified designs of which the citizens of the United States can be proud, the Secretary shall not select any frivolous or inappropriate design for any $1 coin minted under this subsection.

(E) Prohibition on certain representations.— No head and shoulders portrait or bust of any person and no portrait of a living person may be included in the design of any coin issued under this subsection.

(5) Treatment as numismatic items.— For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136, all $1 coins minted under this subsection shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(6) Issuance of numismatic coins.— The Secretary may mint and issue such number of $1 coins of each design selected under this subsection in uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(7) Termination of program.— The issuance of coins under this subsection shall terminate when one innovation, an individual innovator, or a group of innovators, from each State, the District of Columbia, and each territory has been honored and may not be resumed except by an Act of Congress.

(x) Redesign and Issuance of Quarter Dollars Emblematic of Prominent American Women and Commemorating the19th Amendment.—

(1) Redesign of quarter dollars beginning in 2022.—

(A) In general.— Effective beginning January 1, 2022, notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2), the Secretary of the Treasury shall issue quarter dollars that have designs on the reverse selected in accordance with this subsection which are emblematic of the accomplishment of a prominent American woman.

(B) Flexibility with regard to placement of inscriptions.— Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), the Secretary may select a design for quarter dollars referred to in subparagraph (A) in which—

(i) the inscription described in the second sentence of subsection (d)(1) appears on the reverse side of any such quarter dollar; and

(ii) any of the inscriptions described in the third sentence of subsection (d)(1) or the designation of the value of the coin appear on the obverse side of any such quarter dollar.

(C) Single prominent american woman on each quarter dollar.— The design on the reverse side of each quarter dollar issued under this subsection shall be emblematic of the accomplishments and contributions of one prominent woman of the United States, and may include contributions to the United States in a wide spectrum of accomplishments and fields, including but not limited to suffrage, civil rights, abolition, government, humanities, science, space, and arts, and should honor women from ethnically, racially, and geographically diverse backgrounds.

(D) Issuance of quarter dollars emblematic of up to five prominent american women each year.— The designs for the quarter dollars issued during each year of the period of issuance described under paragraph (4) shall be emblematic of up to five prominent American women.

(E) Selection of prominent american women generally.— The selection of a prominent American woman to be featured under this subsection shall be made by the Secretary—

(i) in accordance with a selection process developed by the Secretary;

(ii) after soliciting recommendations from the general public for prominent women designs for quarter dollars; and

(iii) in consultation with the Smithsonian Institution American Women’s History Initiative, National Women’s History Museum, and the Bipartisan Women’s Caucus.

(2) Design generally.— The coins issued in accordance with this subsection shall meet the following design requirements—

(A) In general.— All designs under this subsection shall be selected by the Secretary, after consultation with the Commission of Fine Arts and review by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(B) Obverse.— The design on the obverse of the quarter dollars shall maintain a likeness of George Washington, and be designed in a manner, such as with incused inscriptions, so as to distinguish it from the obverse design used during the previous quarters program.

(3) Issuance of coins.— The Secretary shall prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the number of new designs during each year of the period of issuance, and the number of coins which shall be issued with each of the designs selected for such year.

(4) Period of issuance.—

(A) In general.— The program established under this subsection shall continue in effect until the end of 2025.

(B) Continuity.— After 2025, the Secretary may continue to issue coins minted during the program but not yet issued.

(y) Redesign and Issuance of Coins Emblematic of the United States Semiquincentennial.—

(1) Redesign beginning in 2026.—

(A) In general.—

(i) Notwithstanding the 4th, 5th, and 6th sentences of subsection (d)(1), the Secretary may change the design on any of the coins authorized under this section and minted for issuance during the one-year period beginning January 1, 2026, in celebration of the United States semiquincentennial.

(ii) Notwithstanding the 2nd and 3rd sentences of subsection (d)(1), the Secretary may place the required inscriptions on either the obverse or reverse sides of the coins authorized for redesign under this subsection.

(B) Quarter dollars.— The Secretary may issue quarter dollars in 2026 with up to five different designs emblematic of the United States semiquincentennial. One of the quarter dollar designs must be emblematic of a woman’s or women’s contribution to the birth of the Nation or the Declaration of Independence or any other monumental moments in American History.

(C) Dollars.— The Secretary may, in addition to the coins produced under subsections (r) and (w), mint for issuance during the one-year period beginning January 1, 2026, $1 dollar [sic] coins with designs emblematic of the United States semiquincentennial.

(D) Designs after end of the program.— Beginning in 2027, any coin redesigned under this subsection shall revert to the immediately previous designs, with the exception of the quarter dollar and the half dollar, which shall bear designs in accordance with subsection (z).

(E) Redesign definition.— A redesign authorized under this subsection shall not constitute a “change” for purposes of subsection (d)(2).

(2) Selection of designs.—

(A) In general.— Each of the designs authorized under this subsection shall be selected by the Secretary after consultation with Commission of Fine Arts and review by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(B) Design selection process.— Designs shall be developed and selected in accordance with the design selection process developed by the Secretary in consultation with the United States Semiquincentennial Commission and with recommendations from the general public.

(z) Redesign and Issuance of Quarter Dollars and Half Dollars Emblematic of Sports Played by American Youth.—

(1) Redesign of quarter dollars beginning in 2027.—

(A) In general.— Effective beginning January 1, 2027, notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2), the Secretary shall issue quarter dollars that have designs on the reverse selected in accordance with this subsection which are emblematic of sports played by American youth.

(B) Flexibility with regard to placement of inscriptions.— Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), the Secretary may select a design for quarter dollars referred to in subparagraph (A) in which—

(i) the inscription described in the second sentence of subsection (d)(1) appears on the reverse side of any such quarter dollars; and

(ii) any of the inscriptions described in the third sentence of subsection (d)(1) or the designation of the value of the coin appear on the obverse side of any such quarter dollars.

(C) Single sport on each quarter dollar.— The design on the reverse side of each quarter dollar issued under this subsection shall be emblematic of one sport played by American youth.

(D) Issuance of quarter dollars emblematic of up to five sports each year.— The designs for the quarter dollars issued during each year of the period referred to in paragraph (5) shall be emblematic of up to five sports.

(E) Selection of sports generally.— The Secretary shall select the sports to be honored during each year of the period referred to in paragraph (5) after appropriate outreach and consultation with the public.

(2) Redesign of half dollars beginning in 2027.—

(A) In general.— Effective January 1, 2027, notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2), the Secretary shall issue half dollars that have designs on the reverse selected in accordance with this subsection which are emblematic of a sport tailored to athletes with a range of disabilities, including physical impairment, vision impairment and intellectual impairment (referred to in this Act 44 So in original. Probably should be “this subsection”. as a “Paralympic” sport).

(B) Flexibility with regard to placement of inscriptions.— Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), the Secretary may select a design for half dollars referred to in subparagraph (A) in which—

(i) the inscription described in the second sentence of subsection (d)(1) appears on the reverse side of any such half dollars; and

(ii) any of the inscriptions described in the third sentence of subsection (d)(1) or the designation of the value of the coin appear on the obverse side of any such half dollars.

(C) Single paralympic sport on each half dollar.— The design on the reverse side of each half dollar issued under this subsection shall be emblematic of one Paralympic sport.

(D) Selection of sports.— The selection of a Paralympic sport to be honored with a half dollar under this subsection shall be made by the Secretary after consultation with U.S. Paralympics.

(3) Design generally.— The coins issued in accordance with this subsection shall meet the following design requirements:

(A) In general.— All designs under this subsection shall be selected by the Secretary, after consultation with the Commission of Fine Arts and review by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(B) Quarter dollar obverse.— The design on the obverse of the quarter dollars shall maintain a likeness of George Washington, and be designed in a manner so as to distinguish it from the obverse design used during the previous quarter dollars program.

(C) Half dollar obverse.— The design on the obverse of the half dollar shall maintain a likeness of John Kennedy, and be designed in a manner so as to distinguish it from the obverse design used on the current half dollar.

(4) Issuance of coins.—

(A) Quarter dollar.— The quarter dollar coins bearing designs under this subsection shall be issued at the rate of up to 5 new designs during each year of the period of issuance described under paragraph (5).

(B) Half dollar.— The half dollar coins bearing designs under this subsection shall be issued at the rate of 1 new design during each year of the period of issuance described under paragraph (5).

(5) Period of issuance.—

(A) In general.— The program established under this subsection shall continue in effect until the end of 2030.

(B) Continuity.— After the date specified in subparagraph (A), the Secretary may continue to issue coins minted during the program but not yet issued.

(6) Accompanying sports medals.— For every design of a coin honoring a sport issued under this subsection, the Secretary is authorized to design and issue one or more accompanying medals with designs emblematic of the sport honored with the issuance of the coin, and include a surcharge on the sale the medals sold in accordance with this paragraph, in an amount determined by the Secretary, in the Secretary’s sole discretion, that may be used for the design and manufacture of the medals described in paragraph (7).

(7) Olympic medals.—

(A) In general.— The Secretary is authorized to design and manufacture medals for award at the 2028 Olympic Games in Los Angeles, California.

(B) Working stock.— The Secretary may use Treasury working gold and silver stock in the manufacture of the award medals produced under this subsection.

(C) Olympic & paralympic committees.— The Secretary may provide the medals described in this paragraph to the United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee under terms and conditions established by the Secretary.

(D) Cooperative marketing and promotion opportunities.— The Secretary is encouraged to seek out cooperative marketing and promotion opportunities, including with the United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee, LA28, and United States Olympic and Paralympic Properties to promote the coins and medals produced under this section.

(8) Designs after end of program.— Upon the completion or termination of the coin program under this subsection, the designs on the quarter dollar and half dollar shall be as follows:

(A) Quarter dollar.—

(i) Obverse.— The obverse of the quarter dollar shall bear a design containing a likeness of George Washington.

(ii) Reverse.— The reverse of the quarter dollar shall be of a design selected by the Secretary after consultation with the Commission of Fine Arts and review by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(B) Half dollar.—

(i) Obverse.— The obverse of the half dollar shall bear a design containing a likeness of John Kennedy.

(ii) Reverse.— The reverse of the half dollar shall be of a design selected by the Secretary after consultation with the Commission of Fine Arts and review by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

(aa) Standards and General Provisions for Circulating Collectible Coins Under Subsections (x), (y), and (z).—

(1) Prohibition on certain representations.— No head and shoulders portrait or bust of any person, living or dead, and no portrait of a living person may be included in the design on the reverse of any coin under subsections (x), (y), and (z).

(2) Treatment as numismatic items.— For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136, all coins and medals minted under subsections (x), (y), and (z) shall be considered to be numismatic items.

(3) Issuance.—

(A) Quality of coins.— The Secretary may mint and issue such number of coins of each design selected under subsections (x), (y), and (z) in uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(B) Coordination.— The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Secretary shall take steps to ensure that an adequate supply of coins produced under subsections (x), (y), and (z) are available for commerce and collectors at such places and in such quantities as are appropriate.

(C) Number of each coin designs in each year.— Of the coins issued during each year of the period of issuance under subsections (x), (y), and (z), the Secretary shall prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the number of coins which shall be issued with each of the designs selected for such year.

(D) Special inscriptions or symbol across the coins.— The Secretary is encouraged to develop and include on any coin issued in accordance with subsections (x), (y), or (z), a unifying inscription, privy mark, or other symbol for that particular coin program.

(4) Legal tender.— The coins minted under subsections (x), (y), and (z) shall be legal tender, as provided in section 5103.

(5) Marketing and educational campaign.— In an effort to advance the collecting of the coins and medals authorized under subsections (x), (y), and (z), and numismatics in general, the Secretary may develop and execute a marketing, advertising, promotional, and educational program to promote the collecting of the coins and medals authorized under subsections (x), (y), and (z). As part of this program, the Secretary is encouraged to seek out appropriate cooperative marketing opportunities, and to develop ancillary derivative products beyond traditional numismatic products such as sports, women, and youth oriented products appropriate to the particular coin and medal program.

(6) Quality of medals.— It is the sense of Congress that the medals authorized under subsection (z) be produced in high relief and, if feasible and cost effective, with surface treatments such as frosting and colorization.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 981](/us/stat/96/981); [Pub. L. 97–452, § 1(20)](/us/pl/97/452/s1/20), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2477](/us/stat/96/2477); [Pub. L. 99–61, title II, § 202](/us/pl/99/61/tII/s202), July 9, 1985, [99 Stat. 115](/us/stat/99/115); [Pub. L. 99–185, § 2(a)](/us/pl/99/185/s2/a), (b), Dec. 17, 1985, [99 Stat. 1177](/us/stat/99/1177); [Pub. L. 100–274](/us/pl/100/274), §§ 4(a), 6, Mar. 31, 1988, [102 Stat. 50](/us/stat/102/50); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II](/us/pl/102/390/tII), §§ 226(a), 227, 228, Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1630](/us/stat/106/1630); [Pub. L. 103–272, § 4(f)(1)(R)](/us/pl/103/272/s4/f/1/R), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/108/1362); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(f) [title V, §§ 523, 524, 529(a)]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/f/tV/s523), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–314](/us/stat/110/3009-314), 3009–347 to 3009–349; [Pub. L. 105–124](/us/pl/105/124), §§ 3, 4(b)–(d), Dec. 1, 1997, [111 Stat. 2534](/us/stat/111/2534), 2536; [Pub. L. 105–176](/us/pl/105/176), May 29, 1998, [112 Stat. 104](/us/stat/112/104); [Pub. L. 106–445, § 2(b)](/us/pl/106/445/s2/b), Nov. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 1931](/us/stat/114/1931); [Pub. L. 108–15, title I](/us/pl/108/15/tI), §§ 102, 103(d)(1), Apr. 23, 2003, [117 Stat. 615](/us/stat/117/615), 619; [Pub. L. 109–145, title I](/us/pl/109/145/tI), §§ 102–104, title II, § 201, Dec. 22, 2005, [119 Stat. 2665–2669](/us/stat/119/2665-2669), 2672; [Pub. L. 110–82](/us/pl/110/82), §§ 2, 3, Sept. 20, 2007, [121 Stat. 777](/us/stat/121/777), 779; [Pub. L. 110–147](/us/pl/110/147), Dec. 21, 2007, [121 Stat. 1817](/us/stat/121/1817); [Pub. L. 110–161, div. D, title VI](/us/pl/110/161/dD/tVI), §§ 622–623(b), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2016](/us/stat/121/2016), 2018; [Pub. L. 110–456, title I, § 102](/us/pl/110/456/tI/s102), title II, § 201, Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5039](/us/stat/122/5039), 5042; [Pub. L. 111–8, div. D, title VI, § 616](/us/pl/111/8/dD/tVI/s616), Mar. 11, 2009, [123 Stat. 677](/us/stat/123/677); [Pub. L. 111–302](/us/pl/111/302), §§ 4, 5, Dec. 14, 2010, [124 Stat. 3273](/us/stat/124/3273); [Pub. L. 111–303, § 2](/us/pl/111/303/s2), Dec. 14, 2010, [124 Stat. 3275](/us/stat/124/3275); [Pub. L. 114–94, div. G, title LXXIII, § 73001(1)](/us/pl/114/94/dG/tLXXIII/s73001/1), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1785](/us/stat/129/1785); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, § 885](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVIII/s885), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1505](/us/stat/131/1505); [Pub. L. 115–197, § 2](/us/pl/115/197/s2), July 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 1515](/us/stat/132/1515); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title X, § 1081(e)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tX/s1081/e/1), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1986](/us/stat/132/1986); [Pub. L. 116–330](/us/pl/116/330), §§ 2–6, Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5101–5106](/us/stat/134/5101-5106).)*

In subsection (a), the words before clause (1) are added because of the restatement. In clause (5), the words “that is 0.835 inch in diameter” are added because the Secretary of the Treasury has prescribed the diameter and the diameter of a coin may not be changed under 31:276. The words “5 grams” are substituted for “seventy-seven and sixteen-hundredths grains troy” for consistency in the revised chapter. In clause (6), the words “that is 0.75 inch in diameter” are added because the Secretary has prescribed the diameter and the diameter of a coin may not be changed under 31:276. The words “except as provided under subsection (c) of this section” are added for clarity and because of the restatement. The words “3.11 grams” are substituted for “forty-eight grains” for consistency in the revised chapter.

In subsection (b), the words “In minting 5-cent coins” are substituted for “in minor-coinage alloys” in 31:346 because 5-cent coins are the minor coins composed of nickel. The words “Secretary shall use” are substituted for “shall be used” because of the source provisions restated in section 321 of the revised title. The word “bars” is substituted for “ingots” for consistency in the revised chapter. The words “2.5 percent” are substituted for “twenty-five thousandths” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code. The words “from the percent of nickel required” are substituted for “the legal standard . . . in the proportion of nickel” because of the restatement. The words “In silver ingots, six-thousandths” are omitted as superseded by the source provisions restated in the section. The words “In gold ingots, one-thousandth” in section 3533 of the Revised Statutes are omitted because gold coinage was discontinued by 31:315b. The words “Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section” are added for clarity and because of the restatement.

In subsection (c), the words “a different weight and alloy of copper and zinc” are substituted for “such action” for clarity.

In subsection (d)(1), the words “an impression emblematic of liberty” in 31:324 are omitted as obsolete. The words “The design on the reverse side of the dollar, half dollar, and quarter dollar is an eagle” are substituted for “and upon the reverse side shall be the figure or representation of an eagle . . . but on the dime, 5-, and 1-cent piece, the figure of the eagle shall be omitted”, and the words “The emblem on the obverse side of the dollar is” are substituted for “The one-dollar coin authorized by [section 391(c) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s391/c) shall bear on the obverse side” in 31:324b–1, to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “Any coins minted after July 23, 1965, from 900 fine coin silver shall be inscribed with the year 1964” in 31:324 are omitted because the Secretary no longer has authority to mint coins from 900 fine coin silver.

In subsection (d)(2), the word “Secretary” is substituted for “engraver”, “Director of the Mint”, and “Director of the Mint . . . with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury” because of the source provisions restated in section 321(c) of the revised title. The word “dies” is substituted for “from the original dies already authorized all the working dies required for use in the coinage of the several mints” and “original dies” to eliminate unnecessary words. The word “inscription” is substituted for “legend” for consistency in the section. The words “*Provided*, That no change be made in the diameter of any coin” are omitted as unnecessary because the diameters are prescribed by subsection (a) of the revised section. The words “procure services under [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109) in carrying out this paragraph” are substituted for “engage temporarily for this purpose the services of one or more artists, distinguished in their respective departments of art” to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “who shall be paid for such service from the contingent appropriation for the mint at Philadelphia” are omitted as obsolete. The text of section 3510(2d proviso) of the Revised Statutes is omitted as executed.

In subsection (e)(2), the words “80 percent” are substituted for “eight hundred parts” in 31:391(d), and the words “20 percent” are substituted for “two hundred parts”, for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code. The words “that are metallurgically bonded to” are added for clarity and consistency with subsection (b). In clause (4), the words “the late President of the United States” in 31:324b are omitted as unnecessary. Clause (6) is added because 31:324 applies to coins minted under this subsection.

In subsection (f)(1), before clause (A), the words “Notwithstanding this section and [section 5111(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5111/a/1) are substituted for “Notwithstanding any other provision of law” in 31:399 for clarity. In clause (B), the words “are an alloy of 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper” are substituted for “be minted in accordance with the standard established in section 3514 of the Revised Statutes ([31 U.S.C. 321](/us/usc/t31/s321))” and 31:321 to eliminate unnecessary words and for clarity. In clause (C), the word “symbolizing” is substituted for “emblematic” for clarity.

In subsection (f)(2), the words “under such regulations as he may prescribe” are omitted as unnecessary because of section 321 of the revised title. The word “Treasury” is substituted for “general fund of the Treasury” to eliminate unnecessary words.

The text of 31:399(b)(3) is omitted as unnecessary because of section 5103 of the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1982 Act |  |  |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 5112(a) | 31:317(a)(1st, last sentences). | R.S. § 3515(a); Sept. 26, 1890, ch. 945, § 1, 26 Stat. 485; Sept. 5, 1962, Pub. L. 87–643, § 1, 76 Stat. 440; Oct. 11, 1974, Pub. L. 93–441, § 1, 88 Stat. 1261. |
|  | 31:391(c). | July 23, 1965, Pub. L. 89–81, § 101(c), 79 Stat. 255; restated Dec. 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91–607, § 201, 84 Stat. 1768; Oct. 10, 1978, Pub. L. 95–447, § 2, 92 Stat. 1072. |
| 5112(b) | 31:317(a)(2d, 3d sentences). |  |
|  | 31:346. | R.S. § 3533; June 14, 1947, ch. 104, § 1, 61 Stat. 132. |
|  | 31:391(b). | July 23, 1965, Pub. L. 89–81, § 101(b), (d), 79 Stat. 254; restated Dec. 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91–607, § 201, 84 Stat. 1768. |
|  | 31:398(1)–(4), (6). | July 23, 1965, Pub. L. 89–81, § 108(1)–(4), (6), 79 Stat. 255. |
| 5112(c) | 31:317(b). | R.S. § 3515(b); added Oct. 11, 1974, Pub. L. 93–441, § 1, 88 Stat. 1261. |
| 5112(d)(1) | 31:324. | R.S. § 3517; Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 396, § 3, 24 Stat. 635; Sept. 26, 1890, ch. 945, § 1, 26 Stat. 485; May 18, 1908, ch. 173, 35 Stat. 164; restated July 23, 1965, Pub. L. 89–81, § 204(a), 79 Stat. 256; Dec. 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91–607, § 206, 84 Stat. 1769. |
|  | 31:324b–1. | Oct. 10, 1978, Pub. L. 95–447, § 3, 92 Stat. 1072. |
| 5112(d)(2) | 31:276. | R.S. § 3510; restated Sept. 26, 1890, ch. 944, 26 Stat. 484. |
| 5112(e) | 31:324b. | Dec. 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91–607, § 203, 84 Stat. 1769; Oct. 10, 1978, Pub. L. 95–447, § 4, 92 Stat. 1072. |
|  | 31:324c. | Dec. 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91–607, § 209, 84 Stat. 1769. |
|  | 31:391(d). |  |
|  | 31:398(3), (4). |  |
| 5112(f) | 31:321. | R.S. § 3514; Jan. 30, 1934, ch. 6, § 5, 48 Stat. 340. |
|  | 31:399. | July 23, 1965, Pub. L. 89–81, 79 Stat. 254, § 109; added Dec. 23, 1981, Pub. L. 97–104, § 2, 95 Stat. 1491. |

#### 1983 Act

This amends 31:5112(f)(1) to make technical and conforming changes.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the United States $1 Coin Act of 1997, referred to in subsec. (b), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 105–124](/us/pl/105/124), which was approved Dec. 1, 1997.

The Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act, referred to in subsec. (*l*)(6)(C), is [act June 7, 1939, ch. 190](/us/act/1939-06-07/ch190), as revised generally by [Pub. L. 96–41, § 2](/us/pl/96/41/s2), July 30, 1979, [93 Stat. 319](/us/stat/93/319), which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 98 et seq.) of chapter 5 of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 98 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s98) and Tables.

This Act, referred to in subsec. (*o*)(6), probably means [Pub. L. 109–145](/us/pl/109/145), Dec. 22, 2005, [119 Stat. 2664](/us/stat/119/2664), known as the Presidential $1 Coin Act of 2005, which amended this section and enacted provisions set out as notes under this section. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2005 Amendment note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5101) and Tables.

The date of enactment of the Presidential $1 Coin Act of 2005, referred to in subsec. (q)(1), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 109–145](/us/pl/109/145), which was approved Dec. 22, 2005.

The date of the enactment of the Native American $1 Coin Act, referred to in subsec. (r)(1)(B), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–82](/us/pl/110/82), which was approved Sept. 20, 2007.

Section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, referred to in subsec. (t)(1)(C), is classified to [section 1813 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s1813), Banks and Banking.

The date of the enactment of the America’s Beautiful National Parks Quarter Dollar Coin Act of 2008, referred to in subsec. (t)(3)(A)(ii), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–456](/us/pl/110/456), which was approved Dec. 23, 2008.

This Act, referred to in subsec. (z)(2)(A), probably means [Pub. L. 116–330](/us/pl/116/330), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5101](/us/stat/134/5101), section 4 of which enacted subsec. (z) of this section. The term “Paralympic” does not appear in [Pub. L. 116–330](/us/pl/116/330) outside the enacted text of subsec. (z).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (u). [Pub. L. 116–330, § 5](/us/pl/116/330/s5), added subsec. (u) and struck out former subsec. (u) which related to silver bullion investment product, specifying bullion coins that are likenesses of the quarter dollars issued under subsection (t), their availability for sale, and distribution.

Subsec. (x). [Pub. L. 116–330, § 2](/us/pl/116/330/s2), added subsec. (x).

Subsec. (y). [Pub. L. 116–330, § 3](/us/pl/116/330/s3), added subsec. (y).

Subsec. (z). [Pub. L. 116–330, § 4](/us/pl/116/330/s4), added subsec. (z).

Subsec. (aa). [Pub. L. 116–330, § 6](/us/pl/116/330/s6), added subsec. (aa).

2018—Subsec. (p)(1). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) struck out “, United States Code” after “title 10” in introductory and concluding provisions.

Subsec. (w). [Pub. L. 115–197](/us/pl/115/197) added subsec. (w).

2017—Subsec. (p)(1). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 885(a)](/us/pl/115/91/s885/a), (b), in introductory provisions, inserted “and” before “all transit systems” and struck out “and all entities that operate any business, including vending machines, on any premises owned by the United States or under the control of any agency or instrumentality of the United States, including the legislative and judicial branches of the Federal Government,” after “Mass Transit Account,” and inserted concluding provisions.

Subsec. (p)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 885(c)](/us/pl/115/91/s885/c), substituted “display” for “displays”.

2015—Subsec. (q)(3) to (8). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 73001(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/94/s73001/1/A), redesignated pars. (4) to (7) as (3) to (6), respectively, and struck out former pars. (3) and (8), which related to subsequent designs and protective covering, respectively.

Subsec. (t)(6)(B). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 73001(1)(B)](/us/pl/114/94/s73001/1/B), substituted “not less than 90 percent silver” for “90 percent silver and 10 percent copper”.

Subsec. (v)(1). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 73001(1)(C)(i)](/us/pl/114/94/s73001/1/C/i), substituted “The Secretary shall” for “Subject to the submission to the Secretary and the Congress of a marketing study described in paragraph (8), beginning not more than 1 year after the submission of the study to the Secretary and the Congress, the Secretary shall”.

Subsec. (v)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 73001(1)(C)(ii)](/us/pl/114/94/s73001/1/C/ii), substituted “To the greatest extent possible, the Secretary” for “The Secretary”.

Subsec. (v)(5). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 73001(1)(C)(iii)](/us/pl/114/94/s73001/1/C/iii), inserted “collectible versions of” after “may issue”.

Subsec. (v)(8). [Pub. L. 114–94, § 73001(1)(C)(iv)](/us/pl/114/94/s73001/1/C/iv), struck out par. (8). Text read as follows: “The market study described in paragraph (1) means an analysis of the market for palladium bullion investments conducted by a reputable, independent third party that demonstrates that there would be adequate demand for palladium bullion coins produced by the United States Mint to ensure that such coins could be minted and issued at no net cost to taxpayers.”

2010—Subsec. (a)(12). [Pub. L. 111–303, § 2(1)](/us/pl/111/303/s2/1), added par. (12).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 111–302, § 4](/us/pl/111/302/s4), substituted “qualities and quantities that the Secretary determines are” for “quantities” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 111–302, § 4](/us/pl/111/302/s4), which directed amendment of subsec. (i) by substituting “qualities and quantities that the Secretary determines are” for “quantities”, was executed by making the substitution in introductory provisions of par. (1) to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (u)(1). [Pub. L. 111–302, § 5(1)](/us/pl/111/302/s5/1), substituted “likenesses” for “exact duplicates” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (u)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 111–302, § 5(4)](/us/pl/111/302/s5/4), substituted “determined by the Secretary that is no less than 2.5 inches and no greater than 3.0 inches” for “of 3.0 inches”.

Subsec. (u)(1)(C) to (E). [Pub. L. 111–302, § 5(2)](/us/pl/111/302/s5/2), (3), redesignated subpars. (D) and (E) as (C) and (D), respectively, and struck out former subpar. (C) which read as follows: “have incused into the edge the fineness and weight of the bullion coin;”.

Subsec. (v). [Pub. L. 111–303, § 2(2)](/us/pl/111/303/s2/2), added subsec. (v).

2009—Subsecs. (r), (s). [Pub. L. 111–8](/us/pl/111/8) redesignated subsec. (r) relating to the redesign and issuance of circulating quarter dollar honoring the District of Columbia and territories as (s) and substituted “paragraph (3)” for “paragraph (4)” in subpars. (A) and (B) of par. (5).

2008—Subsec. (t). [Pub. L. 110–456, § 102](/us/pl/110/456/s102), added subsec. (t).

Subsec. (u). [Pub. L. 110–456, § 201](/us/pl/110/456/s201), added subsec. (u).

2007—Subsec. (n)(1). [Pub. L. 110–82, § 3](/us/pl/110/82/s3), redesignated cls. (i) and (ii) of subpar. (A) as subpars. (A) and (B), respectively, struck out heading and designation of former subpar. (A), and struck out former subpar. (B), which related to continuity provisions concerning the “ ‘Sacagawea-design’ $1 coins”.

Subsec. (n)(2)(C)(i). [Pub. L. 110–161, § 623(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/161/s623/a/1/A), substituted “and the inscription” for “and the inscriptions” and struck out “and ‘In God We Trust’ ” before “shall be edge-incused”.

Subsec. (n)(2)(F). [Pub. L. 110–161, § 623(a)(2)](/us/pl/110/161/s623/a/2), added subpar. (F).

Subsec. (p)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 110–147](/us/pl/110/147) amended subpar. (A) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (A) read as follows: “any business operations conducted by any such agency, instrumentality, system, or entity that involve coins or currency will be fully capable of accepting and dispensing $1 coins in connection with such operations; and”.

Subsec. (r). [Pub. L. 110–161, § 622](/us/pl/110/161/s622), added subsec. (r) relating to the redesign and issuance of circulating quarter dollar honoring the District of Columbia and territories.

[Pub. L. 110–82, § 2](/us/pl/110/82/s2), added subsec. (r) relating to the redesign and issuance of circulating $1 coins honoring Native Americans.

Subsec. (r)(2). [Pub. L. 110–161, § 623(b)](/us/pl/110/161/s623/b), substituted “and the inscription” for “and the inscriptions” and struck out “and ‘In God We Trust’ ” before “shall be edge-incused” in subpar. (C)(i), and added subpar (E).

2005—Subsec. (a)(11). [Pub. L. 109–145, § 201(1)](/us/pl/109/145/s201/1), added par. (11).

Subsec. (n). [Pub. L. 109–145, § 102](/us/pl/109/145/s102), added subsec. (n).

Subsec. (*o*). [Pub. L. 109–145, § 103](/us/pl/109/145/s103), added subsec. (*o*).

Subsec. (p). [Pub. L. 109–145, § 104](/us/pl/109/145/s104), added subsec. (p).

Subsec. (q). [Pub. L. 109–145, § 201(2)](/us/pl/109/145/s201/2), added subsec. (q).

2003—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 108–15, § 102(a)](/us/pl/108/15/s102/a), inserted after fourth sentence “Subject to other provisions of this subsection, the obverse of any 5-cent coin issued after December 31, 2005, shall bear the likeness of Thomas Jefferson and the reverse of any such 5-cent coin shall bear an image of the home of Thomas Jefferson at Monticello.”

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 108–15, § 102(b)](/us/pl/108/15/s102/b), inserted “, after consulting with the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee and the Commission of Fine Arts,” after “The Secretary may” in second sentence.

Subsec. (*l*)(4)(A)(ii). [Pub. L. 108–15, § 103(d)(1)](/us/pl/108/15/s103/d/1), substituted “Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee” for “Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee”.

2000—Subsec. (k). [Pub. L. 106–445](/us/pl/106/445) substituted “platinum bullion coins” for “bullion”.

1998—Subsec. (*l*)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 105–176](/us/pl/105/176) added subpar. (C).

1997—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 105–124, § 4(b)](/us/pl/105/124/s4/b), struck out “and weighs 8.1 grams” after “diameter”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 105–124, § 4(c)](/us/pl/105/124/s4/c), struck out “dollar,” before “half dollar” in first sentence and inserted after fourth sentence “The dollar coin shall be golden in color, have a distinctive edge, have tactile and visual features that make the denomination of the coin readily discernible, be minted and fabricated in the United States, and have similar metallic, anti-counterfeiting properties as United States coinage in circulation on the date of enactment of the United States $1 Coin Act of 1997.”

Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 105–124, § 4(d)](/us/pl/105/124/s4/d), substituted “The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Congress, shall select appropriate designs for the obverse and reverse sides of the dollar coin.” for “The eagle on the reverse side of the dollar is the symbolic eagle of Apollo 11 landing on the moon. The obverse side of the dollar has the likeness of Susan B. Anthony.”

Subsec. (*l*). [Pub. L. 105–124, § 3](/us/pl/105/124/s3), added subsec. (*l*).

1996—Subsec. (i)(4)(C). [Pub. L. 104–208, § 101(f) [title V, § 523]](/us/pl/104/208/s101/f/tV/s523), added subpar. (C).

Subsec. (k). [Pub. L. 104–208, § 101(f) [title V, § 524]](/us/pl/104/208/s101/f/tV/s524), added subsec. (k).

Subsec. (m). [Pub. L. 104–208, § 101(f) [title V, § 529(a)]](/us/pl/104/208/s101/f/tV/s529/a), added subsec. (m).

1994—Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 103–272](/us/pl/103/272) substituted “[section 5103 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5103)” for “[section 5103 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5103), United States Code”.

1992—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 102–390, § 226(a)](/us/pl/102/390/s226/a), inserted “shall” before “have” in first sentence and substituted “coin shall have” for “coin has” in second and third sentences.

Subsec. (i)(4). [Pub. L. 102–390, § 228](/us/pl/102/390/s228), added par. (4).

Subsec. (j). [Pub. L. 102–390, § 227](/us/pl/102/390/s227), added subsec. (j).

1988—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–274, § 4(a)](/us/pl/100/274/s4/a), inserted before last sentence “In minting gold coins, the Secretary shall use alloys that vary not more than 0.1 percent from the percent of gold required.”

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 100–274, § 6](/us/pl/100/274/s6), inserted heading and amended subsec. (f) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (f) read as follows: “The Secretary shall sell the coins minted under subsection (e) to the public at a price equal to the market value of the bullion at the time of sale, plus the cost of minting, marketing, and distributing such coins (including labor, materials, dyes, use of machinery, and overhead expenses).”

1985—Subsec. (a)(7) to (10). [Pub. L. 99–185, § 2(a)](/us/pl/99/185/s2/a), added pars. (7) to (10).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 99–61](/us/pl/99/61) added subsec. (e). Former subsec. (e), providing for the minting of 150,000,000 silver and copper alloy dollar coins bearing the likeness of Dwight David Eisenhower, was struck out.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 99–61](/us/pl/99/61) added subsec. (f). Former subsec. (f), providing for the minting of up to 10,000,000 silver and copper alloy half-dollar coins symbolizing the 250th anniversary of the birth of George Washington, was struck out.

Subsecs. (g), (h). [Pub. L. 99–61](/us/pl/99/61) added subsecs. (g) and (h).

Subsec. (i). [Pub. L. 99–185, § 2(b)](/us/pl/99/185/s2/b), added subsec. (i).

1983—Subsec. (f)(1). [Pub. L. 97–452, § 1(20)(A)](/us/pl/97/452/s1/20/A), inserted a comma after “10,000,000)” in introductory text.

Subsec. (f)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 97–452, § 1(20)(B)](/us/pl/97/452/s1/20/B), substituted “250th” for “two hundred and fiftieth”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2007 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–161, div. D, title VI, § 623(c)](/us/pl/110/161/dD/tVI/s623/c), Dec. 26, 2007, [121 Stat. 2018](/us/stat/121/2018), provided that: “The change required by the amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) [amending this section] shall be put into effect by the Secretary of the Treasury as soon as is practicable after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 26, 2007].”

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(f) [title V, § 529(e)]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/f/tV/s529/e), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–314](/us/stat/110/3009-314), 3009–353, provided that: “This section [amending this section and sections 5134 and 5135 of this title, enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 5134 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5134), and amending provisions set out as a note under this section] and the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 30, 1996].”

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendments

[Pub. L. 99–185, § 3](/us/pl/99/185/s3), Dec. 17, 1985, [99 Stat. 1179](/us/stat/99/1179), provided that: “This Act [amending this section and sections 5116, 5118, and 5132 of this title and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] shall take effect on October 1, 1985, except that no coins may be issued or sold under [section 5112(i) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112/i), United States Code, before October 1, 1986.”

[Pub. L. 99–61, title II, § 205](/us/pl/99/61/tII/s205), July 9, 1985, [99 Stat. 117](/us/stat/99/117), provided that: “This title [amending this section and sections 5116 and 5132 of this title and enacting provisions set out as a note under this section] shall take effect on October 1, 1985, except that no coins may be issued or sold under subsection (e) of [section 5112 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112), United States Code, before September 1, 1986, or before the date on which all coins minted under title I of this Act [set out as a note below] have been sold, whichever is earlier.”

#### Short Title of 1985 Amendments

[Pub. L. 99–185, § 1](/us/pl/99/185/s1), Dec. 17, 1985, [99 Stat. 1177](/us/stat/99/1177), provided that: “This Act [amending this section and sections 5116, 5118, and 5132 of this title and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] may be cited as the ‘Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985’.”

[Pub. L. 99–61, title II, § 201](/us/pl/99/61/tII/s201), July 9, 1985, [99 Stat. 115](/us/stat/99/115), provided that: “This title [amending this section and sections 5116 and 5132 of this title and enacting provisions set out as a note under this section] may be cited as the ‘Liberty Coin Act’.”

#### Savings Provision

[Pub. L. 110–192](/us/pl/110/192), Feb. 29, 2008, [122 Stat. 648](/us/stat/122/648), provided: “That clause (i) of [section 5112(n)(1)(B) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112/n/1/B), United States Code (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of [Public Law 110–82](/us/pl/110/82) [Sept. 20, 2007]) shall continue in effect, notwithstanding the amendment made by [section 3 of Public Law 110–82](/us/pl/110/82/s3) [amending this section], until the effective date of the amendment made by section 2 of such Public Law [amending this section].”

#### Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 105–124, § 5](/us/pl/105/124/s5), Dec. 1, 1997, [111 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/111/2537), provided that: “Nothing in this Act [see Short Title of 1997 Amendment note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5101)] or the amendments made by this Act shall be construed to evidence any intention to eliminate or to limit the printing or circulation of United States currency in the $1 denomination.”

#### Cost specification under Circulating Collectible Coin Redesign Act of 2020

[Pub. L. 116–330, § 8](/us/pl/116/330/s8), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5108](/us/stat/134/5108), provided that: “No coin or medal minted and issued under this Act [amending this section and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5101)], or an amendment made by this Act, may be sold at a price such that would result in a net cost to the Federal Government.”

#### 1921 Silver Dollar Coins

[Pub. L. 116–286](/us/pl/116/286), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 4879](/us/stat/134/4879), provided that: “SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘1921 Silver Dollar Coin Anniversary Act’. “SEC. 2. FINDINGS.“The Congress finds that [sic] following:“(1) In December 1921, the Peace silver dollar was approved by Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon, replacing the Morgan silver dollar and commemorating the declaration of peace between the United States and the Imperial German government. “(2) The Peace silver dollar was minted in Philadelphia, Denver and San Francisco. The Morgan silver dollar was minted at Philadelphia, Denver, San Francisco, Carson City, and New Orleans. “(3) The Peace silver dollar was designed by Anthony de Francisci with the Goddess of Liberty on the obverse and a bald eagle clutching the olive branch (a symbol of peace) on the reverse. The Peace silver dollars were minted between 1921 to 1935. “(4) The Morgan silver dollar was designed by George T. Morgan and was minted from 1878 to 1904, and again in 1921. The obverse depicts a profile portrait of Lady Liberty and on the reverse, a heraldic eagle. “(5) The conversion from the Morgan silver dollar to the Peace silver dollar design in 1921 reflected a pivotal moment in American history. The Morgan silver dollar represents the country’s westward expansion and industrial development in the late 19th century. The Peace silver dollar symbolizes the country’s coming of age as an international power while recognizing the sacrifices made by her citizens in World War I and celebrating the victory and peace that ensued. “(6) These iconic silver dollars with vastly different representations of Lady Liberty and the American Eagle, reflect a changing of the guard in 1921 in the United States and therefore on the 100th anniversary must begin to be minted again to commemorate this significant evolution of American freedom. “SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.“(a) $1 Silver Coins.—The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the ‘Secretary’) shall mint and issue $1 coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of completion of coinage of the Morgan dollar and the 100th anniversary of commencement of coinage of the Peace dollar, each of which shall—“(1) weigh 26.73 grams; “(2) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; “(3) contain not less than 90 percent silver; and “(4) have a reeded edge. “(b) Legal Tender.—The coins minted under this Act shall be legal tender, as provided in [section 5103 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5103), United States Code. “(c) Numismatic Items.—For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items. “SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.“(a) Design Requirements.—“(1) In general.—The designs of the coins minted under this Act shall honor either the Morgan dollar or the Peace dollar, as follows—“(A) Morgan dollar.—The coins honoring the 100th anniversary of completion of coinage of the Morgan dollar shall have an obverse design and a reverse design that are renditions of the designs historically used on the obverse and reverse of the Morgan dollar. “(B) Peace dollar.—The coins honoring the 100th anniversary of commencement of coinage of the Peace dollar shall have an obverse design and a reverse design that are renditions of the designs historically used on the obverse and reverse of the Peace dollar. “(2) Designation and inscriptions.—On each coin minted under this Act, there shall be—“(A) a designation of the value of the coin; “(B) an inscription of the year of minting or issuance; and “(C) inscriptions of the words ‘Liberty’, ‘In God We Trust’, ‘United States of America’, and ‘E Pluribus Unum’. “(b) Selection.—The design for the coins minted under this Act shall be—“(1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the Commission of Fine Arts; and “(2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee. “SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.“The Secretary may issue coins minted under this Act beginning on January 1, 2021. “SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.“(a) Sale Price.—The coins issued under this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of—“(1) the face value of the coins; and “(2) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping). “(b) Bulk Sales.—The Secretary may make bulk sales of the coins issued under this Act at a reasonable discount. “SEC. 7. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.“The Secretary of the Treasury shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that the minting and issuing of coins under the Act will not result in any net cost to the United States Government. “SEC. 8. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.“The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 [[2 U.S.C. 931](/us/usc/t2/s931) et seq.], shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled ‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation’ for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.”

#### President George H.W. Bush and First Spouse Barbara Bush Coins

[Pub. L. 116–112](/us/pl/116/112), Jan. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 9](/us/stat/134/9), provided that: “SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘President George H.W. Bush and First Spouse Barbara Bush Coin Act’. “SEC. 2. COINS HONORING PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH AND FIRST SPOUSE BARBARA BUSH.“(a) Circulating $1 Coins Honoring President George H.W. Bush.—Notwithstanding subsections (d), (n)(2)(E), (n)(3), (n)(4), and (n)(8) of [section 5112 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112), United States Code, in addition to the coins to be issued under subsections (r) and (w) of such section 5112, and in accordance with the other provisions of subsection (n) of such section 5112, the Secretary of the Treasury, beginning on January 1, 2020, shall mint and issue $1 coins that bear—“(1) the image of President George H.W. Bush; and “(2) an inscription of the year ‘2020’. “(b) Bullion Coins Honoring First Spouse Barbara Bush.—Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (5)(C) of [section 5112(o) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112/o), United States Code, and in accordance with the other provisions of such section 5112(o), the Secretary of the Treasury, beginning on January 1, 2020, shall mint and issue bullion coins that bear—“(1) the image of First Spouse Barbara Bush; and “(2) an inscription of the year ‘2020’. “SEC. 3. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.“The Secretary of the Treasury shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that the minting and issuing of coins under this Act will not result in any net cost to the United States Government.”

#### Authority To Conduct Research and Development on All Circulating Coins

[Pub. L. 111–302, § 2](/us/pl/111/302/s2), Dec. 14, 2010, [124 Stat. 3272](/us/stat/124/3272), provided that: “(a) In General.—To accomplish the goals of this Act [amending this section and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5101)] and the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of the Treasury may—“(1) conduct any appropriate testing of appropriate coinage metallic materials within or outside of the Department of the Treasury; and “(2) solicit input from or otherwise work in conjunction with entities within or outside of the Federal Government including independent research facilities or current or potential suppliers of the metallic material used in volume production of circulating coins, to complete the report referred to in this Act [see [section 3 of Pub. L. 111–302](/us/pl/111/302/s3), set out as a note below] and to develop and evaluate the use of new metallic materials. “(b) Factors to Be Considered.—In the conduct of research, development, and the solicitation of input or work in conjunction with entities within and outside the Federal Government, and in reporting to the Congress with recommendations, as required by this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consider the following:“(1) Factors relevant to the potential impact of any revisions to the composition of the material used in coin production on the current coinage material suppliers. “(2) Factors relevant to the ease of use and ability to co-circulate of new coinage materials, including the effect on vending machines and commercial coin processing equipment and making certain, to the greatest extent practicable, that any new coins work without interruption in existing coin acceptance equipment without modification. “(3) Such other factors that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with merchants who would be affected by any change in the composition of circulating coins, vending machine and other coin acceptor manufacturers, vending machine owners and operators, transit officials, municipal parking officials, depository institutions, coin and currency handlers, armored-car operators, car wash operators, and American-owned manufacturers of commercial coin processing equipment, considers to be appropriate and in the public interest, after notice and opportunity for comment.”

#### Biennial Report to the Congress on the Current Status of Coin Production Costs and Analysis of Alternative Content

[Pub. L. 111–302, § 3](/us/pl/111/302/s3), Dec. 14, 2010, [124 Stat. 3273](/us/stat/124/3273), provided that: “(a) Report Required.—Before the end of the 2-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 14, 2010], and at 2-year intervals following the end of such period, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate analyzing production costs for each circulating coin, cost trends for such production, and possible new metallic materials or technologies for the production of circulating coins. “(b) Detailed Recommendations.—In preparing and submitting the reports required under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury shall include detailed recommendations for any appropriate changes to the metallic content of circulating coins in such a form that the recommendations could be enacted into law as appropriate. “(c) Improved Production Efficiency.—In preparing and submitting the reports required under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury shall include recommendations for changes in the methods of producing coins that would further reduce the costs to produce circulating coins, and include notes on the legislative changes that are necessary to achieve such goals. “(d) Minimizing Conversion Costs.—In preparing and submitting the reports required under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury, to the greatest extent possible, may not include any recommendation for new specifications for producing a circulating coin that would require any significant change to coin-accepting and coin-handling equipment to accommodate changes to all circulating coins simultaneously. “(e) Fraud Prevention.—The reports required under this section shall make no recommendation for a specification change that would facilitate or allow the use of a coin with a lesser value produced, minted, or issued by another country, or the use of any token or other easily or regularly produced metal device of minimal value, in the place of a circulating coin produced by the Secretary. “(f) Rule of Construction.—No provision of this Act [amending this section and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5101)] shall be construed as requiring that additional research and development be conducted for any report under this Act but any such report shall include information on any such research and development during the period covered by the report.”

#### Findings of 2008 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–456, title I, § 101](/us/pl/110/456/tI/s101), Dec. 23, 2008, [122 Stat. 5038](/us/stat/122/5038), provided that: “The Congress finds as follows: “(1) Yellowstone National Park was established by an Act signed by President Ulysses S. Grant on March 1, 1872, as the Nation’s first national park. “(2) The summer and autumn of 1890 saw the establishment of a number of national sites:“(A) August 19: Chickamauga and Chattanooga established as national military parks in Georgia and Tennessee. “(B) August 30: Antietam established as a national battlefield site in Maryland. “(C) September 25: Sequoia National Park established in California. “(D) September 27: Rock Creek Park established in the District of Columbia. “(E) October 1: General Grant National Park established in California (and subsequently incorporated in Kings Canyon National Park). “(F) October 1: Yosemite National Park established in California. “(3) Theodore Roosevelt was this nation’s 26th President and is considered by many to be our ‘Conservationist President’. “(4) As a frequent visitor to the West, Theodore Roosevelt witnessed the virtual destruction of some big game species and the overgrazing that destroyed the grasslands and with them the habitats for small mammals and songbirds and conservation increasingly became one of his major concerns. “(5) When he became President in 1901, Roosevelt pursued this interest in conservation by establishing the first 51 Bird Reserves, 4 Game Preserves, and 150 National Forests. “(6) He also established the United States Forest Service, signed into law the creation of 5 National Parks, and signed the Act for the Preservation of American Antiquities in 1906 under which he proclaimed 18 national monuments. “(7) Approximately 230,000,000 acres of area within the United States was placed under public protection by Theodore Roosevelt. “(8) Theodore Roosevelt said that nothing short of defending this country in wartime ‘compares in importance with the great central task of leaving this land even a better land for our descendants than it is for us’. “(9) The National Park Service was created by an Act signed by President Woodrow Wilson on August 25, 1916. “(10) The National Park System comprises 391 areas covering more than 84,000,000 acres in every State (except Delaware), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. “(11) The sites or areas within the National Park System vary widely in size and type from vast natural wilderness to birthplaces of Presidents to world heritage archaeology sites to an African burial ground memorial in Manhattan and include national parks, monuments, battlefields, military parks, historical parks, historic sites, lakeshores, seashores, recreation areas, scenic rivers and trails, and the White House. “(12) In addition to the sites within the National Park System, the United States has placed numerous other types of sites under various forms of conservancy, such as the national forests and sites within the National Wildlife Refuge System and on the National Register of Historic Places.”

#### Removal of Barriers to Circulation of $1 Coin

[Pub. L. 110–82, § 4](/us/pl/110/82/s4), Sept. 20, 2007, [121 Stat. 779](/us/stat/121/779), provided that: “(a) In General.—In order to remove barriers to circulation, the Secretary of the Treasury shall carry out an aggressive, cost-effective, continuing campaign to encourage commercial enterprises to accept and dispense $1 coins that have as designs on the obverse the so-called ‘Sacagawea design’. “(b) Report.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to Congress an annual report on the success of the efforts described in subsection (a).”

#### 5-Cent Coins Minted in 2004 and 2005

[Pub. L. 109–230, § 8](/us/pl/109/230/s8), June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 393](/us/stat/120/393), provided that: “Notwithstanding the fifth sentence of [section 5112(d)(1) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112/d/1), United States Code, the Secretary of the Treasury may continue to issue, after December 31, 2005, numismatic items that contain 5-cent coins minted in the years 2004 and 2005.”

#### Presidential Commemorative Dollar Coins; Findings

[Pub. L. 109–145, title I, § 101](/us/pl/109/145/tI/s101), Dec. 22, 2005, [119 Stat. 2664](/us/stat/119/2664), provided that: “Congress finds the following: “(1) There are sectors of the United States economy, including public transportation, parking meters, vending machines, and low-dollar value transactions, in which the use of a $1 coin is both useful and desirable for keeping costs and prices down. “(2) For a variety of reasons, the new $1 coin introduced in 2000 has not been widely sought-after by the public, leading to higher costs for merchants and thus higher prices for consumers. “(3) The success of the 50 States Commemorative Coin Program ([31 U.S.C. 5112](/us/usc/t31/s5112)(*l*)) for circulating quarter dollars shows that a design on a United States circulating coin that is regularly changed in a manner similar to the systematic change in designs in such Program radically increases demand for the coin, rapidly pulling it through the economy. “(4) The 50 States Commemorative Coin Program also has been an educational tool, teaching both Americans and visitors something about each State for which a quarter has been issued. “(5) A national survey and study by the Government Accountability Office has indicated that many Americans who do not seek, or who reject, the new $1 coin for use in commerce would actively seek the coin if an attractive, educational rotating design were to be struck on the coin. “(6) The President is the leader of our tripartite government and the President’s spouse has often set the social tone for the White House while spearheading and highlighting important issues for the country. “(7) Sacagawea, as currently represented on the new $1 coin, is an important symbol of American history. “(8) Many people cannot name all of the Presidents, and fewer can name the spouses, nor can many people accurately place each President in the proper time period of American history. “(9) First Spouses have not generally been recognized on American coinage. “(10) In order to revitalize the design of United States coinage and return circulating coinage to its position as not only a necessary means of exchange in commerce, but also as an object of aesthetic beauty in its own right, it is appropriate to move many of the mottos and emblems, the inscription of the year, and the so-called ‘mint marks’ that currently appear on the 2 faces of each circulating coin to the edge of the coin, which would allow larger and more dramatic artwork on the coins reminiscent of the so-called ‘Golden Age of Coinage’ in the United States, at the beginning of the Twentieth Century, initiated by President Theodore Roosevelt, with the assistance of noted sculptors and medallic artists James Earle Fraser and Augustus Saint-Gaudens. “(11) Placing inscriptions on the edge of coins, known as edge-incusing, is a hallmark of modern coinage and is common in large-volume production of coinage elsewhere in the world, such as the 2,700,000,000 2-Euro coins in circulation, but it has not been done on a large scale in United States coinage in recent years. “(12) Although the Congress has authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to issue gold coins with a purity of 99.99 percent, the Secretary has not done so. “(13) Bullion coins are a valuable tool for the investor and, in some cases, an important aspect of coin collecting.”

#### Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial 1-cent Coin Redesign

[Pub. L. 109–145, title III](/us/pl/109/145/tIII), Dec. 22, 2005, [119 Stat. 2673](/us/stat/119/2673), provided that: “SEC. 301. FINDINGS.“Congress finds the following:“(1) Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President, was one of the Nation’s greatest leaders, demonstrating true courage during the Civil War, one of the greatest crises in the Nation’s history. “(2) Born of humble roots in Hardin County (present-day LaRue County), Kentucky, on February 12, 1809, Abraham Lincoln rose to the Presidency through a combination of honesty, integrity, intelligence, and commitment to the United States. “(3) With the belief that all men are created equal, Abraham Lincoln led the effort to free all slaves in the United States. “(4) Abraham Lincoln had a generous heart, with malice toward none, and with charity for all. “(5) Abraham Lincoln gave the ultimate sacrifice for the country he loved, dying from an assassin’s bullet on April 15, 1865. “(6) All Americans could benefit from studying the life of Abraham Lincoln, for Lincoln’s life is a model for accomplishing the ‘American dream’ through honesty, integrity, loyalty, and a lifetime of education. “(7) The year 2009 will be the bicentennial anniversary of the birth of Abraham Lincoln. “(8) Abraham Lincoln was born in Kentucky, grew to adulthood in Indiana, achieved fame in Illinois, and led the nation in Washington, D.C. “(9) The so-called ‘Lincoln cent’ was introduced in 1909 on the 100th anniversary of Lincoln’s birth, making the obverse design the most enduring on the nation’s coinage. “(10) President Theodore Roosevelt was so impressed by the talent of Victor David Brenner that the sculptor was chosen to design the likeness of President Lincoln for the coin, adapting a design from a plaque Brenner had prepared earlier. “(11) In the nearly 100 years of production of the ‘Lincoln cent’, there have been only 2 designs on the reverse: the original, featuring 2 wheat-heads in memorial style enclosing mottoes, and the current representation of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C. “(12) On the occasion of the bicentennial of President Lincoln’s birth and the 100th anniversary of the production of the Lincoln cent, it is entirely fitting to issue a series of 1-cent coins with designs on the reverse that are emblematic of the 4 major periods of President Lincoln’s life. “SEC. 302. REDESIGN OF LINCOLN CENT FOR 2009.“(a) In General.—During the year 2009, the Secretary of the Treasury shall issue 1-cent coins in accordance with the following design specifications:“(1) Obverse.—The obverse of the 1-cent coin shall continue to bear the Victor David Brenner likeness of President Abraham Lincoln. “(2) Reverse.—The reverse of the coins shall bear 4 different designs each representing a different aspect of the life of Abraham Lincoln, such as—“(A) his birth and early childhood in Kentucky; “(B) his formative years in Indiana; “(C) his professional life in Illinois; and “(D) his presidency, in Washington, D.C. “(b) Issuance of Redesigned Lincoln Cents in 2009.—“(1) Order.—The 1-cent coins to which this section applies shall be issued with 1 of the 4 designs referred to in subsection (a)(2) beginning at the start of each calendar quarter of 2009. “(2) Number.—The Secretary shall prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the number of 1-cent coins that shall be issued with each of the designs selected for each calendar quarter of 2009. “(c) Design Selection.—The designs for the coins specified in this section shall be chosen by the Secretary—“(1) after consultation with the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts; and “(2) after review by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee. “SEC. 303. REDESIGN OF REVERSE OF 1-CENT COINS AFTER 2009.“The design on the reverse of the 1-cent coins issued after December 31, 2009, shall bear an image emblematic of President Lincoln’s preservation of the United States of America as a single and united country. “SEC. 304. NUMISMATIC PENNIES WITH THE SAME METALLIC CONTENT AS THE 1909 PENNY.“The Secretary of the Treasury shall issue 1-cent coins in 2009 with the exact metallic content as the 1-cent coin contained in 1909 in such number as the Secretary determines to be appropriate for numismatic purposes. “SEC. 305. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.“It is the sense of the Congress that the original Victor David Brenner design for the 1-cent coin was a dramatic departure from previous American coinage that should be reproduced, using the original form and relief of the likeness of Abraham Lincoln, on the 1-cent coins issued in 2009.”

#### Designs on the 5-Cent Coin

[Pub. L. 108–15, title I, § 101](/us/pl/108/15/tI/s101), Apr. 23, 2003, [117 Stat. 615](/us/stat/117/615), provided that: “(a) In General.—Subject to subsection (b) and after consulting with the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee and the Commission of Fine Arts, the Secretary of the Treasury may change the design on the obverse and the reverse of the 5-cent coin for coins issued in 2003, 2004, and 2005 in recognition of the bicentennial of the Louisiana Purchase and the expedition of Meriwether Lewis and William Clark. “(b) Design Specifications.—“(1) Obverse.—If the Secretary of the Treasury elects to change the obverse of 5-cent coins issued during 2003, 2004, and 2005, the design shall depict a likeness of President Thomas Jefferson, different from the likeness that appeared on the obverse of the 5-cent coins issued during 2002, in recognition of his role with respect to the Louisiana Purchase and the commissioning of the Lewis and Clark expedition. “(2) Reverse.—If the Secretary of the Treasury elects to change the reverse of the 5-cent coins issued during 2003, 2004, and 2005, the design selected shall depict images that are emblematic of the Louisiana Purchase or the expedition of Meriwether Lewis and William Clark. “(3) Other inscriptions.—5-cent coins issued during 2003, 2004, and 2005 shall continue to meet all other requirements for inscriptions and designations applicable to circulating coins under [section 5112(d)(1) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112/d/1), United States Code.”

#### Study and Report of Impact on United States Silver Market of the American Eagle Silver Bullion Program

[Pub. L. 107–201, § 3(b)](/us/pl/107/201/s3/b), July 23, 2002, [116 Stat. 737](/us/stat/116/737), provided that: “(1) Study.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall conduct a study of the impact on the United States silver market of the American Eagle Silver Bullion Program, established under [section 5112(e) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112/e), United States Code. “(2) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [July 23, 2002], the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report of the study conducted under paragraph (1) to the chairman and ranking minority member of—“(A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and “(B) the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.”

#### Findings of 1997 Amendment

[Pub. L. 105–124, § 2](/us/pl/105/124/s2), Dec. 1, 1997, [111 Stat. 2534](/us/stat/111/2534), provided that: “The Congress finds that— “(1) it is appropriate and timely—“(A) to honor the unique Federal republic of 50 States that comprise the United States; and “(B) to promote the diffusion of knowledge among the youth of the United States about the individual States, their history and geography, and the rich diversity of the national heritage; “(2) the circulating coinage of the United States has not been modernized during the 25-year period preceding the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 1, 1997]; “(3) a circulating commemorative 25-cent coin program could produce earnings of $110,000,000 from the sale of silver proof coins and sets over the 10-year period of issuance, and would produce indirect earnings of an estimated $2,600,000,000 to $5,100,000,000 to the United States Treasury, money that will replace borrowing to fund the national debt to at least that extent; and “(4) it is appropriate to launch a commemorative circulating coin program that encourages young people and their families to collect memorable tokens of all of the States for the face value of the coins.”

#### Dollar Coins

[Pub. L. 105–124, § 4(e)](/us/pl/105/124/s4/e), (f), Dec. 1, 1997, [111 Stat. 2536](/us/stat/111/2536), 2537, provided that: “(e) Production of New Dollar Coins.—“(1) In general.—Upon the depletion of the Government’s supply (as of the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 1, 1997]) of $1 coins bearing the likeness of Susan B. Anthony, the Secretary of the Treasury shall place into circulation $1 coins that comply with the requirements of subsections (b) and (d)(1) of [section 5112 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112), United States Code, as amended by this section. “(2) Authority of secretary to continue production.—If the supply of $1 coins bearing the likeness of Susan B. Anthony is depleted before production has begun of $1 coins which bear a design which complies with the requirements of subsections (b) and (d)(1) of [section 5112 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112), United States Code, as amended by this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may continue to mint and issue $1 coins bearing the likeness of Susan B. Anthony in accordance with that section 5112 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) until such time as production begins. “(3) Numismatic sets.—The Secretary may include such $1 coins in any numismatic set produced by the United States Mint before the date on which the $1 coins authorized by this section are placed in circulation. “(f) Marketing Program.—“(1) In general.—Before placing into circulation $1 coins authorized under this section [amending this section and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t31/s5101)], the Secretary of the Treasury shall adopt a program to promote the use of such coins by commercial enterprises, mass transit authorities, and Federal, State, and local government agencies. “(2) Study required.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall conduct a study on the progress of the marketing program adopted in accordance with paragraph (1). “(3) Report.—Not later than March 31, 2001, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report to the Congress on the results of the study conducted pursuant to paragraph (2).”

#### Study and Report to Congress of 50 States Commemorative Coin Program

[Pub. L. 104–329, title III, § 302](/us/pl/104/329/tIII/s302), Oct. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 4012](/us/stat/110/4012), provided that: “(a) Study.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall by June 1, 1997 complete a study of the feasibility of a circulating commemorative coin program to commemorate each of the 50 States. The study shall assess likely public acceptance of and consumer demand for different coins that might be issued in connection with such a program (taking into consideration the pace of issuance of coins and the length of such a program), a comparison of the costs of producing coins issued under the program and the revenue that the program would generate, the impact on coin distribution systems, the advantages and disadvantages of different approaches to selecting designs for coins in such a program, and such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate in deciding upon the feasibility of such a program. No steps taken in order to gather information for this study shall be considered a collection of information within the meaning of [section 3502 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3502), United States Code. “(b) Report.—The Secretary shall submit the study required in subsection (a) above, to the Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate, simultaneously on its receipt by the Secretary. “(c) 50-State Commemorative Coin Program.—The Secretary shall determine by August 1, 1997 whether the results of the study authorized by subsection (a) justify such a program. If the Secretary determines that such a program is justified, then he shall by January 1, 1999, notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1) and subsection (d)(2) of section 5112, title 31, United States Code, commence a commemorative coin program consisting of the minting and issuance of quarter dollar coins bearing designs, selected in accordance with paragraph (4) of this subsection, which are emblematic of the 50 States. If the Secretary determines that such a commemorative coin program is justified but that it is not practicable to commence the program by January 1, 1999, then he shall notify the Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate of such impracticability and of the date on which the program will commence.“(1) Design.—The design for each quarter dollar issued under the program shall be emblematic of 1 of the 50 States. The designs for quarter dollar coins issued during each year of the program shall be emblematic of States which have not previously been commemorated under the program. “(2) Order of issuance.—Each State will be honored by a coin in the order of that State’s admission to the United States. “(3) Number of coins.—Of the quarter dollar coins issued during each year of the program, the Secretary shall prescribe, on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the number of quarter dollar coins which shall be issued with each of the designs selected for such year. “(4) Selection of design.—Each of the 50 designs required for quarter dollars issued under the program shall be—“(A) selected pursuant to a process, decided upon by the Secretary, on the basis of the study conducted pursuant to subsection (a), which process shall involve, among other things, consultation with appropriate officials of the State being commemorated with such design; and “(B) reviewed by the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee and the Commission of Fine Arts. “(5) Treatment as numismatic items.—For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all coins minted under this section shall be considered to be numismatic items. “(6) Numismatic items.—“(A) Quality of coins.—The Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter dollars of each design selected under paragraph (4) of this subsection in uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate. “(B) Silver coins.—Notwithstanding the provisions of sub[section 5112(b) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112/b), United States Code, the Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter dollars of each design selected under paragraph (4) of this subsection as the Secretary determines to be appropriate with a content of 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper. “(C) Sources of bullion.—The Secretary may obtain silver for minting coins under paragraph (6)(B) from stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act [[50 U.S.C. 98](/us/usc/t50/s98) et seq.]. “(d) Funding.—Funds used to complete this study shall be offset from funds from the Department of the Treasury.”

#### Deposit of Profits From Sale of Gold to Mint for Commemorative Coin Program

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(f) [title V, § 523]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/f/tV/s523), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–314](/us/stat/110/3009-314), 3009–347, provided in part: “That profits generated from the sale of gold to the United States Mint for this program shall be considered as a receipt to be deposited into the General Fund of the Treasury.”

#### Use of Government Platinum Reserves Stockpiled at Mint

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(f) [title V, § 524]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/f/tV/s524), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–314](/us/stat/110/3009-314), 3009–348, provided in part: “That the Secretary is authorized to use Government platinum reserves stockpiled at the United States Mint as working inventory and shall ensure that reserves utilized are replaced by the Mint.”

#### Reform of Commemorative Coin Programs

[Pub. L. 103–186, title III](/us/pl/103/186/tIII), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2251](/us/stat/107/2251), as amended by [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(f) [title V, § 529(b)(4)]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/f/tV/s529/b/4), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–314](/us/stat/110/3009-314), 3009–352; [Pub. L. 104–316, title I, § 115(h)](/us/pl/104/316/tI/s115/h), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3835](/us/stat/110/3835), provided that: “SEC. 301. SENSE OF CONGRESS RESOLUTION.“(a) Findings.—The Congress hereby makes the following findings:“(1) Congress has authorized 18 commemorative coin programs in the 9 years since 1984. “(2) There are more meritorious causes, events, and people worthy of commemoration than can be honored with commemorative coinage. “(3) Commemorative coin legislation has increased at a pace beyond that which the numismatic community can reasonably be expected to absorb. “(4) It is in the interests of all Members of Congress that a policy be established to control the flow of commemorative coin legislation. “(b) Declaration.—It is the sense of the Congress that the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs [now Committee on Financial Services] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate should not report or otherwise clear for consideration by the House of Representatives or the Senate legislation providing for more than 2 commemorative coin programs for any year, unless the committee determines, on the basis of a recommendation by the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee, that extraordinary merit exists for an additional commemorative coin program. “SEC. 302. REPORTS BY RECIPIENTS OF COMMEMORATIVE COIN SURCHARGES.“(a) Quarterly Financial Report.—“(1) In general.—Each person who receives, after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 14, 1993], any surcharge derived from the sale of commemorative coins under any Act of Congress shall submit a quarterly financial report to the Director of the United States Mint and the Comptroller General of the United States describing in detail the expenditures made by such person from the proceeds of the surcharge. “(2) Information to be included.—The report under paragraph (1) shall include information on the proportion of the surcharges received during the period covered by the report to the total revenue of such person during such period, expressed as a percentage, and the percentage of total revenue during such period which was spent on administrative expenses (including salaries, travel, overhead, and fund raising). “(3) Due dates.—Quarterly reports under this subsection shall be due at the end of the 30-day period beginning on the last day of any calendar quarter during which any surcharge derived from the sale of commemorative coins is received by any person. “(b) Final Report.—Each person who receives, after the date of the enactment of this Act, any surcharge derived from the sale of commemorative coins under any Act of Congress shall submit a final report on the expenditures made by such person from the proceeds of all surcharges received by such person, including information described in subsection (a)(2), before the end of the 1-year period beginning on the last day on which sales of such coins may be made.”

#### Amount Equal to Profit From Sale of Gold Coins Deposited in General Fund of Treasury To Reduce National Debt

[Pub. L. 99–185, § 2(f)](/us/pl/99/185/s2/f), Dec. 17, 1985, [99 Stat. 1178](/us/stat/99/1178), provided that an amount equal to the amount by which the proceeds from the sale of the coins issued under [31 U.S.C. 5112(i)](/us/usc/t31/s5112/i) exceeded the sum of the cost of minting, marketing, and distributing such coins, and the value of gold certificates (not exceeding forty-two and two-ninths dollars a fine troy ounce) retired from the use of gold contained in such coins, was to be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury and used for the sole purpose of reducing the national debt, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/A), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628), effective Oct. 1, 1992.

#### Issuance of Gold Coins To Result in No Net Cost to United States

[Pub. L. 99–185, § 2(g)](/us/pl/99/185/s2/g), Dec. 17, 1985, [99 Stat. 1178](/us/stat/99/1178), provided that: “The Secretary shall take all actions necessary to ensure that the issuance of the coins minted under [section 5112(i) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s5112/i), United States Code, shall result in no net cost to the United States Government.”

#### Commemorative Coins

Provisions authorizing commemorative coins were contained in the following acts:

[Pub. L. 118–143](/us/pl/118/143), Dec. 11, 2024, [138 Stat. 1663](/us/stat/138/1663).—FIFA World Cup 2026.

[Pub. L. 118–109](/us/pl/118/109), Nov. 25, 2024, [138 Stat. 1597](/us/stat/138/1597).—Working Dogs.

[Pub. L. 118–10](/us/pl/118/10), July 26, 2023, [137 Stat. 56](/us/stat/137/56).—United States Marine Corps 250th Anniversary.

[Pub. L. 117–163](/us/pl/117/163), Aug. 3, 2022, [136 Stat. 1353](/us/stat/136/1353).—Harriet Tubman Bicentennial.

[Pub. L. 117–162](/us/pl/117/162), Aug. 3, 2022, [136 Stat. 1349](/us/stat/136/1349).—National World War II Memorial.

[Pub. L. 116–247](/us/pl/116/247), Dec. 22, 2020, [134 Stat. 1120](/us/stat/134/1120).—National Purple Heart Hall of Honor.

[Pub. L. 116–209](/us/pl/116/209), Dec. 4, 2020, [134 Stat. 1011](/us/stat/134/1011).—Negro Leagues Baseball 100th Anniversary.

[Pub. L. 116–94, div. K, § 101–108](/us/pl/116/94/dK/s101–108), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3086](/us/stat/133/3086).—National Law Enforcement Museum.

[Pub. L. 116–71](/us/pl/116/71), Nov. 25, 2019, [133 Stat. 1147](/us/stat/133/1147).—Women’s Suffrage Centennial.

[Pub. L. 116–65](/us/pl/116/65), Oct. 9, 2019, [133 Stat. 1124](/us/stat/133/1124).—Christa McAuliffe.

[Pub. L. 115–343](/us/pl/115/343), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5043](/us/stat/132/5043).—Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.

[Pub. L. 115–65](/us/pl/115/65), Oct. 6, 2017, [131 Stat. 1191](/us/stat/131/1191).—American Legion 100th Anniversary.

[Pub. L. 114–282](/us/pl/114/282), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/130/1441).—Apollo 11 50th Anniversary.

[Pub. L. 114–148](/us/pl/114/148), Apr. 29, 2016, [130 Stat. 360](/us/stat/130/360).—Breast Cancer Awareness.

[Pub. L. 114–30](/us/pl/114/30), July 6, 2015, [129 Stat. 424](/us/stat/129/424).—Boys Town Centennial.

[Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3055](/us/pl/113/291/dB/tXXX/s3055), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3808](/us/stat/128/3808).—National Park Service 100th anniversary.

[Pub. L. 113–212](/us/pl/113/212), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2082](/us/stat/128/2082).—World War I American Veterans Centennial.

[Pub. L. 112–209](/us/pl/112/209), Dec. 18, 2012, [126 Stat. 1510](/us/stat/126/1510).—March of Dimes.

[Pub. L. 112–201](/us/pl/112/201), Dec. 4, 2012, [126 Stat. 1479](/us/stat/126/1479).—Mark Twain.

[Pub. L. 112–181](/us/pl/112/181), Oct. 5, 2012, [126 Stat. 1416](/us/stat/126/1416).—Lions Clubs International century of service.

[Pub. L. 112–152](/us/pl/112/152), Aug. 3, 2012, [126 Stat. 1155](/us/stat/126/1155); [Pub. L. 113–10, § 1](/us/pl/113/10/s1), May 17, 2013, [127 Stat. 445](/us/stat/127/445).—National Baseball Hall of Fame.

[Pub. L. 112–104](/us/pl/112/104), Apr. 2, 2012, [126 Stat. 286](/us/stat/126/286).—United States Marshals Service 225th anniversary.

[Pub. L. 111–262](/us/pl/111/262), Oct. 8, 2010, [124 Stat. 2780](/us/stat/124/2780).—5-Star Generals.

[Pub. L. 111–232](/us/pl/111/232), Aug. 16, 2010, [124 Stat. 2490](/us/stat/124/2490).—Star-Spangled Banner.

[Pub. L. 111–91](/us/pl/111/91), Nov. 6, 2009, [123 Stat. 2980](/us/stat/123/2980).—Medal of Honor.

[Pub. L. 111–86](/us/pl/111/86), Oct. 29, 2009, [123 Stat. 2881](/us/stat/123/2881).—Girl Scouts USA centennial.

[Pub. L. 110–451](/us/pl/110/451), Dec. 2, 2008, [122 Stat. 5021](/us/stat/122/5021).—Civil Rights Act of 1964.

[Pub. L. 110–450](/us/pl/110/450), Dec. 1, 2008, [122 Stat. 5017](/us/stat/122/5017).—United States Army.

[Pub. L. 110–363](/us/pl/110/363), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4015](/us/stat/122/4015).—Boy Scouts of America centennial.

[Pub. L. 110–357](/us/pl/110/357), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 3998](/us/stat/122/3998); [Pub. L. 112–169, § 1](/us/pl/112/169/s1), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1302](/us/stat/126/1302).—National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center.

[Pub. L. 110–277](/us/pl/110/277), July 17, 2008, [122 Stat. 2599](/us/stat/122/2599).—American veterans disabled for life.

[Pub. L. 109–285](/us/pl/109/285), Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1215](/us/stat/120/1215); [Pub. L. 112–74, div. C, title VI, § 621](/us/pl/112/74/dC/tVI/s621), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 926](/us/stat/125/926).—Abraham Lincoln.

[Pub. L. 109–247](/us/pl/109/247), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 582](/us/stat/120/582).—Louis Braille bicentennial—braille literacy.

[Pub. L. 109–230](/us/pl/109/230), §§ 1–7, June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 391–393](/us/stat/120/391-393).—San Francisco Old Mint.

[Pub. L. 109–146](/us/pl/109/146), Dec. 22, 2005, [119 Stat. 2676](/us/stat/119/2676).—Little Rock Central High School desegregation 50th anniversary.

[Pub. L. 108–486](/us/pl/108/486), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3934](/us/stat/118/3934).—American Bald Eagle Recovery and National Emblem.

[Pub. L. 108–464](/us/pl/108/464), Dec. 21, 2004, [118 Stat. 3878](/us/stat/118/3878).—Benjamin Franklin.

[Pub. L. 108–291](/us/pl/108/291), Aug. 6, 2004, [118 Stat. 1024](/us/stat/118/1024).—Marine Corps 230th anniversary.

[Pub. L. 108–290](/us/pl/108/290), Aug. 6, 2004, [118 Stat. 1021](/us/stat/118/1021).—John Marshall.

[Pub. L. 108–289](/us/pl/108/289), Aug. 6, 2004, [118 Stat. 1017](/us/stat/118/1017); [Pub. L. 111–86, § 8(b)](/us/pl/111/86/s8/b), Oct. 29, 2009, [123 Stat. 2883](/us/stat/123/2883).—Jamestown 400th anniversary.

[Pub. L. 106–435](/us/pl/106/435), Nov. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 1916](/us/stat/114/1916).—2002 Winter Olympic Games.

[Pub. L. 106–375](/us/pl/106/375), Oct. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 1435](/us/stat/114/1435).—National Museum of the American Indian.

[Pub. L. 106–126, title I](/us/pl/106/126/tI), Dec. 6, 1999, [113 Stat. 1643](/us/stat/113/1643).—Leif Ericson millennium.

[Pub. L. 106–126, title II](/us/pl/106/126/tII), Dec. 6, 1999, [113 Stat. 1644](/us/stat/113/1644).—United States Capitol visitor center.

[Pub. L. 106–126, title III](/us/pl/106/126/tIII), Dec. 6, 1999, [113 Stat. 1647](/us/stat/113/1647); [Pub. L. 109–232](/us/pl/109/232), June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 395](/us/stat/120/395).—Lewis and Clark Expedition bicentennial.

[Pub. L. 105–331](/us/pl/105/331), Oct. 31, 1998, [112 Stat. 3073](/us/stat/112/3073); [Pub. L. 110–3](/us/pl/110/3), Feb. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 6](/us/stat/121/6).—Thomas Alva Edison.

[Pub. L. 105–268](/us/pl/105/268), Oct. 19, 1998, [112 Stat. 2378](/us/stat/112/2378).—Library of Congress bicentennial.

[Pub. L. 105–124, § 6](/us/pl/105/124/s6), Dec. 1, 1997, [111 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/111/2537).—First flight by Orville and Wilbur Wright.

[Pub. L. 104–329, § 2](/us/pl/104/329/s2), title I, §§ 101–108, Oct. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 4005–4011](/us/stat/110/4005-4011); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 139(c)](/us/pl/105/277/dC/tI/s139/c), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–599](/us/stat/112/2681-599).—Dolley Madison, George Washington, Black Revolutionary War patriots, Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial, Yellowstone National Park, National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, and Jackie Robinson.

[Pub. L. 104–96](/us/pl/104/96), Jan. 10, 1996, [109 Stat. 981](/us/stat/109/981).—Smithsonian Institution sesquicentennial.

[Pub. L. 103–328, title II, § 204](/us/pl/103/328/tII/s204), Sept. 29, 1994, [108 Stat. 2369](/us/stat/108/2369).—1995 Special Olympics World Games.

[Pub. L. 103–328, title II, § 205](/us/pl/103/328/tII/s205), Sept. 29, 1994, [108 Stat. 2371](/us/stat/108/2371).—National community service.

[Pub. L. 103–328, title II, § 206](/us/pl/103/328/tII/s206), Sept. 29, 1994, [108 Stat. 2373](/us/stat/108/2373).—Robert F. Kennedy Memorial.

[Pub. L. 103–328, title II, § 207](/us/pl/103/328/tII/s207), Sept. 29, 1994, [108 Stat. 2375](/us/stat/108/2375).—United States Military Academy bicentennial.

[Pub. L. 103–328, title II, § 208](/us/pl/103/328/tII/s208), Sept. 29, 1994, [108 Stat. 2377](/us/stat/108/2377).—United States Botanic Garden.

[Pub. L. 103–186, title I](/us/pl/103/186/tI), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2245](/us/stat/107/2245).—Thomas Jefferson.

[Pub. L. 103–186, title II](/us/pl/103/186/tII), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2247](/us/stat/107/2247).—Prisoner-of-war, Vietnam Veterans Memorial, and Women in Military Service for America Memorial.

[Pub. L. 103–186, title IV](/us/pl/103/186/tIV), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2252](/us/stat/107/2252).—United States Capitol bicentennial.

[Pub. L. 102–414](/us/pl/102/414), Oct. 14, 1992, [106 Stat. 2106](/us/stat/106/2106).—World War II 50th anniversary.

[Pub. L. 102–390, title I](/us/pl/102/390/tI), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1620](/us/stat/106/1620); [Pub. L. 104–74](/us/pl/104/74), Dec. 26, 1995, [109 Stat. 784](/us/stat/109/784).—1996 Olympic Games.

[Pub. L. 102–379](/us/pl/102/379), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/106/1362).—Civil War battlefields.

[Pub. L. 102–281, title I](/us/pl/102/281/tI), May 13, 1992, [106 Stat. 133](/us/stat/106/133); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(G)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/G), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628).—White House 200th anniversary.

[Pub. L. 102–281, title II](/us/pl/102/281/tII), May 13, 1992, [106 Stat. 135](/us/stat/106/135); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(H)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/H), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628); [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1132(a)](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1132/a), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 725](/us/stat/109/725).—World Cup USA 1994.

[Pub. L. 102–281, title IV](/us/pl/102/281/tIV), §§ 401–411, May 13, 1992, [106 Stat. 139–141](/us/stat/106/139-141); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(I)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/I), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628).—Christopher Columbus quincentenary.

[Pub. L. 102–281, title V](/us/pl/102/281/tV), May 13, 1992, [106 Stat. 145](/us/stat/106/145); [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1132(c)](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1132/c), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 725](/us/stat/109/725).—James Madison and Bill of Rights.

[Pub. L. 101–495](/us/pl/101/495), Oct. 31, 1990, [104 Stat. 1187](/us/stat/104/1187); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(F)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/F), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628).—Korean War Veterans Memorial.

[Pub. L. 101–406](/us/pl/101/406), Oct. 3, 1990, [104 Stat. 879](/us/stat/104/879); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(E)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/E), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628).—1992 Olympic Games.

[Pub. L. 101–404](/us/pl/101/404), Oct. 2, 1990, [104 Stat. 875](/us/stat/104/875); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(D)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/D), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628).—United Services Organization 50th anniversary.

[Pub. L. 101–332](/us/pl/101/332), July 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 313](/us/stat/104/313); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(C)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/C), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628); [Pub. L. 103–328, title II, § 209](/us/pl/103/328/tII/s209), Sept. 29, 1994, [108 Stat. 2378](/us/stat/108/2378).—Mount Rushmore National Memorial golden anniversary.

[Pub. L. 100–673](/us/pl/100/673), Nov. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 3992](/us/stat/102/3992); [Pub. L. 101–36](/us/pl/101/36), June 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 69](/us/stat/103/69); [Pub. L. 101–302, title III, § 312(c)](/us/pl/101/302/tIII/s312/c), May 25, 1990, [104 Stat. 245](/us/stat/104/245); [Pub. L. 103–186, title IV, § 408(b)](/us/pl/103/186/tIV/s408/b), Dec. 14, 1993, [107 Stat. 2253](/us/stat/107/2253).—United States Congress bicentennial.

[Pub. L. 100–467](/us/pl/100/467), Oct. 3, 1988, [102 Stat. 2275](/us/stat/102/2275); [Pub. L. 102–390, title II, § 221(c)(2)(B)](/us/pl/102/390/tII/s221/c/2/B), Oct. 6, 1992, [106 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/106/1628).—Dwight David Eisenhower.

[Pub. L. 100–141](/us/pl/100/141), Oct. 28, 1987, [101 Stat. 832](/us/stat/101/832).—1988 Olympic Games.

[Pub. L. 99–582](/us/pl/99/582), Oct. 29, 1986, [100 Stat. 3315](/us/stat/100/3315).—United States Constitution bicentennial.

[Pub. L. 99–61, title I](/us/pl/99/61/tI), July 9, 1985, [99 Stat. 113](/us/stat/99/113).—Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island.

[Pub. L. 97–220](/us/pl/97/220), July 22, 1982, [96 Stat. 222](/us/stat/96/222).—1984 Olympic Games.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Possession of Gold Coins and Bullion

The possession of gold coins and bullion was prohibited except under Government license by Ex. Ord. No. 6260, eff. Aug. 28, 1933. That prohibition was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 11825, Dec. 31, 1974, 40 F.R. 1003, eff. Dec. 31, 1974.
