---
title: "§ 7693. Eligibility; preferences; covered costs"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7693"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7693"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tIII/s303/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1464](/us/stat/132/1464); amended [Pub. L. 115–251, title II, § 211(a)(12)](/us/pl/115/251/tII/s211/a/12), Sept. 29, 2018, [132 Stat. 3176](/us/stat/132/3176).)"
---
# § 7693. Eligibility; preferences; covered costs

##### § 7693. Eligibility; preferences; covered costs

(a) Eligibility.— An individual is eligible to participate in the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program if the individual—

(1) will be eligible for appointment under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7401) to work in an occupation described in [section 7692 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7692);

(2) owes any amount of principal or interest under a loan, the proceeds of which were used by or on behalf of that individual to pay costs relating to a course of education or training which led to a degree that qualified the individual for the position referred to in paragraph (1); and

(3) is—

(A) recently graduated from an accredited medical or osteopathic school and matched to an accredited residency program in a medical specialty described in [section 7692 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7692); or

(B) a physician in training in a medical specialty described in [section 7692 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7692) with more than 2 years remaining in such training.

(b) Preferences.— In selecting individuals for participation in the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program under this subchapter, the Secretary may give preference to the following:

(1) Individuals who are, or will be, participating in residency programs in health care facilities—

(A) located in rural areas;

(B) operated by Indian tribes, tribal organizations, or the Indian Health Service; or

(C) affiliated with underserved health care facilities of the Department.

(2) Veterans.

(c) Covered Costs.— For purposes of subsection (a)(2), costs relating to a course of education or training include—

(1) tuition expenses;

(2) all other reasonable educational expenses, including expenses for fees, books, equipment, and laboratory expenses; and

(3) reasonable living expenses.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tIII/s303/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1464](/us/stat/132/1464); amended [Pub. L. 115–251, title II, § 211(a)(12)](/us/pl/115/251/tII/s211/a/12), Sept. 29, 2018, [132 Stat. 3176](/us/stat/132/3176).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–251](/us/pl/115/251) substituted “will be eligible for appointment” for “is hired”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Preference

[Pub. L. 115–182, title III, § 303(d)](/us/pl/115/182/tIII/s303/d), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1467](/us/stat/132/1467), as amended by [Pub. L. 115–251, title II, § 211(b)(6)(A)](/us/pl/115/251/tII/s211/b/6/A), Sept. 29, 2018, [132 Stat. 3176](/us/stat/132/3176), provided that: “In granting preference under [section 7693 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s7693), United States Code, as enacted by subsection (a), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall determine whether a facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs is underserved based on the criteria developed under section 401 of this Act [[38 U.S.C. 8110](/us/usc/t38/s8110) note].”
