---
title: "§ 585. Vacancies"
identifier: "USC-T28-S585"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section585"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–598, title II, § 224(a)](/us/pl/95/598/tII/s224/a), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2663](/us/stat/92/2663); amended [Pub. L. 99–554, title I, § 112](/us/pl/99/554/tI/s112), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3091](/us/stat/100/3091).)"
---
# § 585. Vacancies

##### § 585. Vacancies

(a) The Attorney General may appoint an acting United States trustee for a region in which the office of the United States trustee is vacant. The individual so appointed may serve until the date on which the vacancy is filled by appointment under [section 581 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s581) or by designation under subsection (b) of this section.

(b) The Attorney General may designate a United States trustee to serve in not more than two regions for such time as the public interest requires.

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–598, title II, § 224(a)](/us/pl/95/598/tII/s224/a), Nov. 6, 1978, [92 Stat. 2663](/us/stat/92/2663); amended [Pub. L. 99–554, title I, § 112](/us/pl/99/554/tI/s112), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3091](/us/stat/100/3091).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 408(c) of Pub. L. 95–598](/us/pl/95/598/s408/c), as amended, which provided for the repeal of this section and the deletion of any references to United States Trustees in this title at a prospective date, was repealed by [section 307(b) of Pub. L. 99–554](/us/pl/99/554/s307/b). See note set out preceding [section 581 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s581).

#### Amendments

1986—[Pub. L. 99–554](/us/pl/99/554) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The Attorney General may appoint an acting United States trustee for a district in which the office of United States trustee is vacant, or may designate a United States trustee for another judicial district to serve as trustee for the district in which such vacancy exists. The individual so appointed or designated may serve until the earlier of 90 days after such appointment or designation, as the case may be, or the date on which the vacancy is filled by appointment under [section 581 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s581).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–554](/us/pl/99/554) effective 30 days after Oct. 27, 1986, see [section 302(a) of Pub. L. 99–554](/us/pl/99/554/s302/a), set out as a note under [section 581 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s581).
