---
title: "§ 18201. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18201"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18201"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10211](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10211), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 931](/us/stat/124/931).)"
---
# § 18201. Definitions

##### § 18201. Definitions

(1) Accompaniment The term “accompaniment” means assisting, representing, and accompanying a woman in seeking judicial relief for child support, child custody, restraining orders, and restitution for harm to persons and property, and in filing criminal charges, and may include the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney and witness fees associated therewith.

(2) Eligible institution of higher education The term “eligible institution of higher education” means an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in [section 1001 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001)) that has established and operates, or agrees to establish and operate upon the receipt of a grant under this chapter, a pregnant and parenting student services office.

(3) Community service center The term “community service center” means a non-profit organization that provides social services to residents of a specific geographical area via direct service or by contract with a local governmental agency.

(4) High school The term “high school” means any public or private school that operates grades 10 through 12, inclusive, grades 9 through 12, inclusive or grades 7 through 12, inclusive.

(5) Intervention services The term “intervention services” means, with respect to domestic violence, sexual violence, sexual assault, or stalking, 24-hour telephone hotline services for police protection and referral to shelters.

(6) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(7) State The term “State” includes the District of Columbia, any commonwealth, possession, or other territory of the United States, and any Indian tribe or reservation.

(8) Supportive social services The term “supportive social services” means transitional and permanent housing, vocational counseling, and individual and group counseling aimed at preventing domestic violence, sexual violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

(9) Violence The term “violence” means actual violence and the risk or threat of violence.

*([Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10211](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10211), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 931](/us/stat/124/931).)*
