---
title: "§ 10103. Career paths"
identifier: "USC-T5-S10103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section10103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 621(a)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s621/a), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1413](/us/stat/120/1413).)"
---
# § 10103. Career paths

##### § 10103. Career paths

(a) In General.— The Administrator shall—

(1) ensure that appropriate career paths for personnel of the Agency are identified, including the education, training, experience, and assignments necessary for career progression within the Agency; and

(2) publish information on the career paths described in paragraph (1).

(b) Education, Training, and Experience.— The Administrator shall ensure that all personnel of the Agency are provided the opportunity to acquire the education, training, and experience necessary to qualify for promotion within the Agency, including, as appropriate, the opportunity to participate in the Rotation Program established under section 844 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002.

(c) Policy.— The Administrator shall establish a policy for assigning Agency personnel to positions that provides for a balance between—

(1) the need for such personnel to serve in career enhancing positions; and

(2) the need to require service in a position for a sufficient period of time to provide the stability necessary—

(A) to carry out the duties of that position; and

(B) for responsibility and accountability for actions taken in that position.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 621(a)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s621/a), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1413](/us/stat/120/1413).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 844 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, referred to in subsec. (b), is classified to [section 414 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s414), Domestic Security.
