---
title: "§ 673. Reporter"
identifier: "USC-T28-S673"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section673"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 919](/us/stat/62/919).)"
---
# § 673. Reporter

##### § 673. Reporter

(a) The Supreme Court may appoint and fix the compensation of a reporter of its decisions who shall be subject to removal by the Court.

(b) The reporter may appoint and fix the compensation of necessary professional and clerical assistants and other employees, with the approval of the Court or the Chief Justice of the United States.

(c) The reporter shall, under the direction of the Court or the Chief Justice, prepare the decisions of the Court for publication in bound volumes and advance copies in pamphlet installments.The reporter shall determine the quality and size of the paper, type, format, proofs and binding subject to the approval of the Court or the Chief Justice.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 919](/us/stat/62/919).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., §§ 325, 332, and 333 ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231), §§ 219, 225, 226, [36 Stat. 1152](/us/stat/36/1152), 1153; [July 1, 1922, ch. 267](/us/act/1922-07-01/ch267), §§ 1, 2, [42 Stat. 816](/us/stat/42/816); [May 29, 1926, ch. 425, § 1](/us/act/1926-05-29/ch425/s1), [44 Stat. 677](/us/stat/44/677)).

This section consolidates sections 332 and 333 of title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., with part of section 325 of such title.

Provisions of [section 325 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s325), U.S.C., 1940 ed., relating to appointment of clerk and marshal of the Supreme Court are incorporated in sections 671 and 672 of this title.

The provision as to tenure is new and is added to insure consistency with other revised sections relating to tenure of court officers.

The provisions of [section 333 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s333), U.S.C., 1940 ed., fixing the reporter’s salary at $8,000 per annum were omitted and the Court given authority to fix the salary in conformity with sections 671 and 672 of this title relating to the clerk and the marshal.

Provisions of [section 333 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s333), U.S.C., 1940 ed., for allowance of stationery, supplies, equipment, and office rent are omitted as obsolete. Offices are now provided in the Supreme Court building and supplies are furnished by the marshal.

The last sentence of [section 333 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s333), U.S.C., 1940 ed., relating to the payment of the reporter’s expenses from appropriation for the Supreme Court, was omitted as surplusage.

The revised section makes specific the implied power to fix the compensation of the reporter’s assistants.

The provision in [section 332 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s332), U.S.C., 1940 ed., authorizing the Public Printer to do the printing referred to in such section, was omitted as unnecessary. (See [section 111 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s111), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Public Printing and Documents.)

Authority for making an appropriation to carry into effect the provisions of this section relating to compensation and allowances of the reporter, compensation of his assistants, and preparation of the decisions of the Supreme Court for publication, is contained in [section 336 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s336), U.S.C., 1940 ed. (Acts [July 1, 1922, ch. 267, § 5](/us/act/1922-07-01/ch267/s5), [42 Stat. 818](/us/stat/42/818); [May 29, 1926, ch. 425, § 3](/us/act/1926-05-29/ch425/s3), [44 Stat. 678](/us/stat/44/678)), which is omitted, but not repealed, as unnecessary in this revision.
