---
title: "§ 1680r. Tribal health program option for cost sharing"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1680r"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1680r"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 828](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s828), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1680r. Tribal health program option for cost sharing

##### § 1680r. Tribal health program option for cost sharing

(a) In general Nothing in this chapter limits the ability of a tribal health program operating any health program, service, function, activity, or facility funded, in whole or part, by the Service through, or provided for in, a compact with the Service pursuant to title V of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 458aaa](/us/usc/t25/s458aaa) et seq.) 11 See References in Text note below. to charge an Indian for services provided by the tribal health program.

(b) Service Nothing in this chapter authorizes the Service—

(1) to charge an Indian for services; or

(2) to require any tribal health program to charge an Indian for services.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 828](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s828), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400), known as the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203). Title V of the Act was classified principally to part E (§ 458aaa et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as subchapter V (§ 5381 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Section 828 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s828) is based on section 197 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).
