---
title: "§ 40723. Eligibility for participation"
identifier: "USC-T36-S40723"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section40723"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1337](/us/stat/112/1337).)"
---
# § 40723. Eligibility for participation

##### § 40723. Eligibility for participation

(a) Certification.—

(1) An individual shall certify by affidavit, before participating in an activity sponsored or supported by the corporation, that the individual—

(A) has not been convicted of a felony;

(B) has not been convicted of a violation of [section 922 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s922); and

(C) is not a member of an organization that advocates the violent overthrow of the United States Government.

(2) The Director of Civilian Marksmanship may require an individual to provide certification from law enforcement agencies to verify that the individual has not been convicted of a felony or a violation of [section 922 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s922).

(b) Ineligibility.— An individual may not participate in an activity sponsored or supported by the corporation if the individual—

(1) has been convicted of a felony; or

(2) has been convicted of a violation of [section 922 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s922).

(c) Limiting Participation.— The Director may limit participation in the program as necessary to ensure—

(1) the safety of participants;

(2) the security of firearms, ammunition, and equipment; and

(3) the quality of instruction in the use of firearms.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1337](/us/stat/112/1337).)*

In subsection (a)(1), the words “shall certify” are substituted for “shall be required to certify”, and the word “felony” is substituted for “Federal or State felony”, to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (a)(2), the words “provide certification” are substituted for “attach to the person’s affidavit a certification”, and the words “law enforcement agencies” are substituted for “appropriate State or Federal law enforcement agency”, to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (b), the words “may not participate” are substituted for “shall not be eligible to participate” to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “through the Civilian Marksmanship Program” are omitted as unnecessary. The word “felony” is substituted for “Federal or State felony” to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (c)(3), the words “the quality of instruction” are substituted for “quality instruction” for consistency in the subsection.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40723(a) | 36:5503(a). | Feb. 10, 1996, Pub. L. 104–106, title XVI, § 1613, 110 Stat. 517. |
| 40723(b) | 36:5503(b). |  |
| 40723(c) | 36:5503(c). |  |
