---
title: "§ 1680q. Prescription drug monitoring"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1680q"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1680q"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 827](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s827), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1680q. Prescription drug monitoring

##### § 1680q. Prescription drug monitoring

(a) Monitoring

(1) Establishment The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of the Interior and the Attorney General, shall establish a prescription drug monitoring program, to be carried out at health care facilities of the Service, tribal health care facilities, and urban Indian health care facilities.

(2) Report Not later than 18 months after March 23, 2010, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report that describes—

(A) the needs of the Service, tribal health care facilities, and urban Indian health care facilities with respect to the prescription drug monitoring program under paragraph (1);

(B) the planned development of that program, including any relevant statutory or administrative limitations; and

(C) the means by which the program could be carried out in coordination with any State prescription drug monitoring program.

(b) Abuse

(1) In general The Attorney General, in conjunction with the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior, shall conduct—

(A) an assessment of the capacity of, and support required by, relevant Federal and tribal agencies—

(i) to carry out data collection and analysis regarding incidents of prescription drug abuse in Indian communities; and

(ii) to exchange among those agencies and Indian health programs information relating to prescription drug abuse in Indian communities, including statutory and administrative requirements and limitations relating to that abuse; and

(B) training for Indian health care providers, tribal leaders, law enforcement officers, and school officials regarding awareness and prevention of prescription drug abuse and strategies for improving agency responses to addressing prescription drug abuse in Indian communities.

(2) Report Not later than 18 months after March 23, 2010, the Attorney General shall submit to the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report that describes—

(A) the capacity of Federal and tribal agencies to carry out data collection and analysis and information exchanges as described in paragraph (1)(A);

(B) the training conducted pursuant to paragraph (1)(B);

(C) infrastructure enhancements required to carry out the activities described in paragraph (1), if any; and

(D) any statutory or administrative barriers to carrying out those activities.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VIII, § 827](/us/pl/94/437/tVIII/s827), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 827 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s827) is based on section 196 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).
