---
title: "§ 1191d. Standardized reporting format"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1191d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1191d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 735](/us/pl/93/406/tI/s735), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. BB, title I, § 115(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dBB/tI/s115/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2877](/us/stat/134/2877).)"
---
# § 1191d. Standardized reporting format

##### § 1191d. Standardized reporting format

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after December 27, 2020, the Secretary shall establish (and periodically update) a standardized reporting format for the voluntary reporting, by group health plans to State All Payer Claims Databases, of medical claims, pharmacy claims, dental claims, and eligibility and provider files that are collected from private and public payers, and shall provide guidance to States on the process by which States may collect such data from such plans in the standardized reporting format.

(b) Consultation

(1) Advisory Committee Not later than 90 days after December 27, 2020, the Secretary shall convene an Advisory Committee (referred to in this section as the “Committee”), consisting of 15 members to advise the Secretary regarding the format and guidance described in paragraph (1).11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection (a).”

(2) Membership

(A) Appointment In accordance with subparagraph (B), not later than 90 days after December 27, 2020, the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall appoint under subparagraph (B)(iii), and the Comptroller General of the United States shall appoint under subparagraph (B)(iv), members who have distinguished themselves in the fields of health services research, health economics, health informatics, data privacy and security, or the governance of State All Payer Claims Databases, or who represent organizations likely to submit data to or use the database, including patients, employers, or employee organizations that sponsor group health plans, health care providers, health insurance issuers, or third-party administrators of group health plans. Such members shall serve 3-year terms on a staggered basis. Vacancies on the Committee shall be filled by appointment consistent with this paragraph not later than 3 months after the vacancy arises.

(B) Composition The Committee shall be comprised of—

(i) the Assistant Secretary of Employee Benefits and Security Administration of the Department of Labor, or a designee of such Assistant Secretary;

(ii) the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation of the Department of Health and Human Services, or a designee of such Assistant Secretary;

(iii) members appointed by the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, including—

(I) 1 member to serve as the chair of the Committee;

(II) 1 representative of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services;

(III) 1 representative of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality;

(IV) 1 representative of the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health and Human Services with expertise in data privacy and security;

(V) 1 representative of the National Center for Health Statistics;

(VI) 1 representative of the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology; and

(VII) 1 representative of a State All-Payer 22 So in original. Definition in subsec. (c) does not contain hyphen in “All Payer”. Claims Database;

(iv) members appointed by the Comptroller General of the United States, including—

(I) 1 representative of an employer that sponsors a group health plan;

(II) 1 representative of an employee organization that sponsors a group health plan;

(III) 1 academic researcher with expertise in health economics or health services research;

(IV) 1 consumer advocate; and

(V) 2 additional members.

(3) Report Not later than 180 days after December 27, 2020, the Committee shall report to the Secretary, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives. Such report shall include recommendations on the establishment of the format and guidance described in subsection (a).

(c) State All Payer Claims Database In this section, the term “State All Payer Claims Database” means, with respect to a State, a database that may include medical claims, pharmacy claims, dental claims, and eligibility and provider files, which are collected from private and public payers.

(d) Authorization of appropriations To carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2021, to remain available until expended or, if sooner, until the date described in subsection (e).

(e) Sunset Beginning on the date on which the report is submitted under subsection (b)(3), subsection (b) shall have no force or effect.

*([Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 735](/us/pl/93/406/tI/s735), as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. BB, title I, § 115(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dBB/tI/s115/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2877](/us/stat/134/2877).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.
