---
title: "§ 10532. Applications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10532"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10532"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2502](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2502), as added [Pub. L. 105–181, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/105/181/s3/a/3), June 16, 1998, [112 Stat. 514](/us/stat/112/514); amended [Pub. L. 106–517, § 3(c)](/us/pl/106/517/s3/c), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2408](/us/stat/114/2408).)"
---
# § 10532. Applications

##### § 10532. Applications

(a) In general To request a grant under this subchapter, the chief executive of a State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe shall submit an application to the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance in such form and containing such information as the Director may reasonably require.

(b) Regulations Not later than 90 days after June 16, 1998, the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall promulgate regulations to implement this section (including the information that must be included and the requirements that the States, units of local government, and Indian tribes must meet) in submitting the applications required under this section.

(c) Eligibility A unit of local government that receives funding under the Local Law Enforcement Block Grant program (described under the heading “Violent Crime Reduction Programs, State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance” of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 ([Public Law 105–119](/us/pl/105/119))) during a fiscal year in which it submits an application under this subchapter shall not be eligible for a grant under this subchapter unless the chief executive officer of such unit of local government certifies and provides an explanation to the Director that the unit of local government considered or will consider using funding received under the block grant program for any or all of the costs relating to the purchase of armor vests, but did not, or does not expect to use such funds for such purpose.

(d) Applications in conjunction with purchases If an application under this section is submitted in conjunction with a transaction for the purchase of armor vests, grant amounts under this section may not be used to fund any portion of that purchase unless, before the application is submitted, the applicant—

(1) receives clear and conspicuous notice that receipt of the grant amounts requested in the application is uncertain; and

(2) expressly assumes the obligation to carry out the transaction, regardless of whether such amounts are received.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2502](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2502), as added [Pub. L. 105–181, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/105/181/s3/a/3), June 16, 1998, [112 Stat. 514](/us/stat/112/514); amended [Pub. L. 106–517, § 3(c)](/us/pl/106/517/s3/c), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2408](/us/stat/114/2408).)*

#### References in Text

The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, referred to in subsec. (c), is [Pub. L. 105–119](/us/pl/105/119), Nov. 26, 1997, [111 Stat. 2440](/us/stat/111/2440). Provisions under the heading “Violent Crime Reduction Programs, State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance”, [111 Stat. 2452](/us/stat/111/2452), are not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 3796*ll*–1 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2000—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 106–517](/us/pl/106/517) added subsec. (d).

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) through (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
