---
title: "§ 3079a. Treatment of commission in commissioned officer corps as employment in Administration for purposes of certain hiring decisions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3079a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3079a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 269A](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s269A), as added [Pub. L. 116–259, title II, § 209(a)](/us/pl/116/259/tII/s209/a), Dec. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/134/1168).)"
---
# § 3079a. Treatment of commission in commissioned officer corps as employment in Administration for purposes of certain hiring decisions

##### § 3079a. Treatment of commission in commissioned officer corps as employment in Administration for purposes of certain hiring decisions

(a) In general In any case in which the Secretary accepts an application for a position of employment with the Administration and limits consideration of applications for such position to applications submitted by individuals serving in a career or career-conditional position in the competitive service within the Administration, the Secretary shall deem an officer who has served as an officer in the commissioned officer corps of the Administration for at least three years to be serving in a career or career-conditional position in the competitive service within the Administration for purposes of such limitation.

(b) Career appointments If the Secretary selects an application submitted by an officer described in subsection (a) for a position described in such subsection, the Secretary shall give such officer a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service, as appropriate.

(c) Competitive service defined In this section, the term “competitive service” has the meaning given the term in [section 2102 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2102).

*([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 269A](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s269A), as added [Pub. L. 116–259, title II, § 209(a)](/us/pl/116/259/tII/s209/a), Dec. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/134/1168).)*
