---
title: "§ 3234. Tutorial assistance"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3234"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3234"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–689, title I, § 107(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/689/tI/s107/b/1), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4168](/us/stat/102/4168), § 1634; amended [Pub. L. 101–237, title IV, § 423(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/101/237/tIV/s423/b/1/B), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/103/2092); renumbered § 3234 and amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), (c)(1), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)"
---
# § 3234. Tutorial assistance

##### § 3234. Tutorial assistance

(a) An individual entitled to benefits under this chapter shall also be entitled to the benefits provided an eligible veteran under [section 3492 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3492), subject to the conditions applicable to an eligible veteran under such section. Any amount paid to an individual under this section shall be in addition to the amount of other benefits paid under this chapter.

(b) An individual’s period of entitlement to educational assistance under this chapter shall be charged only with respect to the amount of educational assistance paid to the individual under this section in excess of $600.

(c) An individual’s period of entitlement to educational assistance under this chapter shall be charged at the rate of one month for each amount of assistance paid to the individual under this section in excess of $600 that is equal to the amount of monthly educational assistance the individual is otherwise eligible to receive for full-time pursuit of an institutional course under this chapter.

(d) Payments of benefits under this section shall be made—

(1) in the case of the first $600 of such benefits paid to an individual, from funds appropriated, or otherwise available, to the Department of Veterans Affairs for the payment of readjustment benefits; and

(2) in the case of payments to an individual for such benefits in excess of $600, from the fund from contributions made to the fund by the veteran and by the Secretary of Defense in the same proportion as these contributions are used to pay other educational assistance to the individual under this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–689, title I, § 107(b)(1)](/us/pl/100/689/tI/s107/b/1), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4168](/us/stat/102/4168), § 1634; amended [Pub. L. 101–237, title IV, § 423(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/101/237/tIV/s423/b/1/B), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/103/2092); renumbered § 3234 and amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), (c)(1), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), renumbered [section 1634 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1634) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/c/1), substituted “3492” for “1692”.

1989—Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 101–237](/us/pl/101/237) substituted “Department of Veterans Affairs” for “Veterans’ Administration”.
