---
title: "§ 671. Establishment; Associate Administrator; appointment and compensation"
identifier: "USC-T15-S671"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section671"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–699, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/699/tII/s201), Aug. 21, 1958, [72 Stat. 690](/us/stat/72/690); [Pub. L. 89–117, title III, § 316(b)](/us/pl/89/117/tIII/s316/b), Aug. 10, 1965, [79 Stat. 484](/us/stat/79/484); [Pub. L. 89–779, § 2](/us/pl/89/779/s2), Nov. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 1359](/us/stat/80/1359).)"
---
# § 671. Establishment; Associate Administrator; appointment and compensation

##### § 671. Establishment; Associate Administrator; appointment and compensation

There is hereby established in the Small Business Administration a division to be known as the Small Business Investment Division. The Division shall be headed by an Associate Administrator who shall be appointed by the Administrator, and shall receive compensation at the rate provided by law for other Associate Administrators of the Small Business Administration.

*([Pub. L. 85–699, title II, § 201](/us/pl/85/699/tII/s201), Aug. 21, 1958, [72 Stat. 690](/us/stat/72/690); [Pub. L. 89–117, title III, § 316(b)](/us/pl/89/117/tIII/s316/b), Aug. 10, 1965, [79 Stat. 484](/us/stat/79/484); [Pub. L. 89–779, § 2](/us/pl/89/779/s2), Nov. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 1359](/us/stat/80/1359).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1966—[Pub. L. 89–779](/us/pl/89/779) substituted “Associated Administrator” for “Deputy Administrator” as the head of the Small Business Investment Division of the Small Business Administration, substituted the rate provided by law for other Associate Administrators of the Small Business Administration for the rate provided by law for the other Deputy Administrators of the Small Business Administration as the standard of compensation for the head of the Small Business Investment Division, and struck out provisions spelling out the proper exercise of the powers conferred on the Administration and on the Administrator through the Small Business Investment Division and the Division head. See [section 687(f) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s687/f).

1965—[Pub. L. 89–117](/us/pl/89/117) provided that the powers conferred by subchapters IV–A and V of this chapter shall be exercised through such divisions, sections, or other personnel as the Administrator in his discretion determines.
