---
title: "§ 1862o–15. Limit on proposals"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1862o–15"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1862o–15"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–69, title VII, § 7037](/us/pl/110/69/tVII/s7037), Aug. 9, 2007, [121 Stat. 714](/us/stat/121/714).)"
---
# § 1862o–15. Limit on proposals

##### § 1862o–15. Limit on proposals

(a) Policy For programs supported by the Foundation that require as part of the selection process for awards the submission of preproposals and that also limit the number of preproposals that may be submitted by an institution, the Director shall allow the subsequent submission of a full proposal based on each preproposal that is determined to have merit following the Foundation’s merit review process.

(b) Review and assessment of policies The Board shall review and assess the effects on institutions of higher education of the policies of the Foundation regarding the imposition of limitations on the number of proposals that may be submitted by a single institution for programs supported by the Foundation. The Board shall determine whether current policies are well justified and appropriate for the types of programs that limit the number of proposal submissions. Not later than 1 year after August 9, 2007, the Board shall summarize the Board’s findings and any recommendations regarding changes to the current policy on the restriction of proposal submissions in a report to the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 110–69, title VII, § 7037](/us/pl/110/69/tVII/s7037), Aug. 9, 2007, [121 Stat. 714](/us/stat/121/714).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Act, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Act, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see [section 7001 of Pub. L. 110–69](/us/pl/110/69/s7001), set out as a note under section 1862*o* of this title.
