---
title: "§ 2484. Applicability of preexisting laws and regulations"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2484"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2484"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3296](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3296), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 971](/us/stat/113/971); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3132(b)(2)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3132/b/2), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2186](/us/stat/126/2186).)"
---
# § 2484. Applicability of preexisting laws and regulations

##### § 2484. Applicability of preexisting laws and regulations

With respect to any facility, mission, or function of the Department of Energy that the Secretary of Energy transfers to the Administrator under [section 2481 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2481), unless otherwise provided in this chapter, all provisions of law and regulations in effect immediately before the date of the transfer that are applicable to such facility, mission, or function shall continue to apply to the corresponding functions of the Administration.

*([Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3296](/us/pl/106/65/dC/tXXXII/s3296), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 971](/us/stat/113/971); [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3132(b)(2)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3132/b/2), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2186](/us/stat/126/2186).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title XXXII of div. C of [Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 953](/us/stat/113/953), which is classified principally to this chapter. For effective date of this chapter, see [section 3299 of Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65/s3299), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2401). For complete classification of title XXXII to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2401) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2013—[Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, all provisions of law and regulations in effect immediately before the effective date of this chapter that are applicable to functions of the Department of Energy specified in [section 2481 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2481) shall continue to apply to the corresponding functions of the Administration.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 1, 2000, see [section 3299 of Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65/s3299), set out as a note under [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2401).
