---
title: "§ 7707. Advanced National Seismic System"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–124, § 13](/us/pl/95/124/s13), as added [Pub. L. 106–503, title II, § 204](/us/pl/106/503/tII/s204), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/114/2305); amended [Pub. L. 108–360, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/108/360/tI/s104/b), Oct. 25, 2004, [118 Stat. 1675](/us/stat/118/1675); [Pub. L. 115–307, § 8(b)](/us/pl/115/307/s8/b), Dec. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 4417](/us/stat/132/4417).)"
---
# § 7707. Advanced National Seismic System

##### § 7707. Advanced National Seismic System

(a) Establishment The Director of the United States Geological Survey shall establish and operate an Advanced National Seismic System. The purpose of such system shall be to organize, modernize, standardize, and stabilize the national, regional, and urban seismic monitoring systems in the United States, including sensors, recorders, and data analysis centers, into a coordinated system that will measure and record the full range of frequencies and amplitudes exhibited by seismic waves, in order to enhance earthquake research and warning capabilities.

(b) Management plan Not later than 90 days after November 13, 2000, the Director of the United States Geological Survey shall transmit to the Congress a 5-year management plan for establishing and operating the Advanced National Seismic System. The plan shall include annual cost estimates for both modernization and operation, milestones, standards, and performance goals, as well as plans for securing the participation of all existing networks in the Advanced National Seismic System and for establishing new, or enhancing existing, partnerships to leverage resources.

*([Pub. L. 95–124, § 13](/us/pl/95/124/s13), as added [Pub. L. 106–503, title II, § 204](/us/pl/106/503/tII/s204), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/114/2305); amended [Pub. L. 108–360, title I, § 104(b)](/us/pl/108/360/tI/s104/b), Oct. 25, 2004, [118 Stat. 1675](/us/stat/118/1675); [Pub. L. 115–307, § 8(b)](/us/pl/115/307/s8/b), Dec. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 4417](/us/stat/132/4417).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–307](/us/pl/115/307) substituted “Advanced National Seismic System” for “Advanced National Seismic Research and Monitoring System” in section catchline and wherever appearing in text.

2004—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–360](/us/pl/108/360) struck out subsec. (c) which related to authorization of appropriations.
