---
title: "§ 2297h–12. AVLIS"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2297h–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2297h–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–134, title III, § 3114](/us/pl/104/134/tIII/s3114), Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321–348](/us/stat/110/1321-348).)"
---
# § 2297h–12. AVLIS

##### § 2297h–12. AVLIS

(a) Exclusive right to commercialize The Corporation shall have the exclusive commercial right to deploy and use any AVLIS patents, processes, and technical information owned or controlled by the Government, upon completion of a royalty agreement with the Secretary.

(b) Transfer of related property to Corporation

(1) In general To the extent requested by the Corporation and subject to the requirements of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 ([42 U.S.C. 2011](/us/usc/t42/s2011), et seq.), the President shall transfer without charge to the Corporation all of the right, title, or interest in and to property owned by the United States under control or custody of the Secretary that is directly related to and materially useful in the performance of the Corporation’s purposes regarding AVLIS and alternative technologies for uranium enrichment, including—

(A) facilities, equipment, and materials for research, development, and demonstration activities; and

(B) all other facilities, equipment, materials, processes, patents, technical information of any kind, contracts, agreements, and leases.

(2) Exception Facilities, real estate, improvements, and equipment related to the gaseous diffusion, and gas centrifuge, uranium enrichment programs of the Secretary shall not transfer under paragraph (1)(B).

(3) Expiration of transfer authority The President’s authority to transfer property under this subsection shall expire upon the privatization date.

(c) Liability for patent and related claims With respect to any right, title, or interest provided to the Corporation under subsection (a) or (b), the Corporation shall have sole liability for any payments made or awards under section 157b.(3) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 ([42 U.S.C. 2187(b)(3)](/us/usc/t42/s2187/b/3)), or any settlements or judgments involving claims for alleged patent infringement. Any royalty agreement under subsection (a) of this section shall provide for a reduction of royalty payments to the Secretary to offset any payments, awards, settlements, or judgments under this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 104–134, title III, § 3114](/us/pl/104/134/tIII/s3114), Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321–348](/us/stat/110/1321-348).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724](/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724), as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1](/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1), [68 Stat. 919](/us/stat/68/919), which is classified principally to this chapter (§ 2011 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2011) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the USEC Privatization Act and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.
