---
title: "§ 20914. Information required in registration"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20914"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20914"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 114](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s114), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 594](/us/stat/120/594); [Pub. L. 114–119, § 6(a)](/us/pl/114/119/s6/a), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 22](/us/stat/130/22).)"
---
# § 20914. Information required in registration

##### § 20914. Information required in registration

(a) Provided by the offender The sex offender shall provide the following information to the appropriate official for inclusion in the sex offender registry:

(1) The name of the sex offender (including any alias used by the individual).

(2) The Social Security number of the sex offender.

(3) The address of each residence at which the sex offender resides or will reside.

(4) The name and address of any place where the sex offender is an employee or will be an employee.

(5) The name and address of any place where the sex offender is a student or will be a student.

(6) The license plate number and a description of any vehicle owned or operated by the sex offender.

(7) Information relating to intended travel of the sex offender outside the United States, including any anticipated dates and places of departure, arrival, or return, carrier and flight numbers for air travel, destination country and address or other contact information therein, means and purpose of travel, and any other itinerary or other travel-related information required by the Attorney General.

(8) Any other information required by the Attorney General.

(b) Provided by the jurisdiction The jurisdiction in which the sex offender registers shall ensure that the following information is included in the registry for that sex offender:

(1) A physical description of the sex offender.

(2) The text of the provision of law defining the criminal offense for which the sex offender is registered.

(3) The criminal history of the sex offender, including the date of all arrests and convictions; the status of parole, probation, or supervised release; registration status; and the existence of any outstanding arrest warrants for the sex offender.

(4) A current photograph of the sex offender.

(5) A set of fingerprints and palm prints of the sex offender.

(6) A DNA sample of the sex offender.

(7) A photocopy of a valid driver’s license or identification card issued to the sex offender by a jurisdiction.

(8) Any other information required by the Attorney General.

(c) Time and manner A sex offender shall provide and update information required under subsection (a), including information relating to intended travel outside the United States required under paragraph (7) of that subsection, in conformity with any time and manner requirements prescribed by the Attorney General.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 114](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s114), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 594](/us/stat/120/594); [Pub. L. 114–119, § 6(a)](/us/pl/114/119/s6/a), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 22](/us/stat/130/22).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16914 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16914), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(7), (8). [Pub. L. 114–119, § 6(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/119/s6/a/1), added par. (7) and redesignated former par. (7) as (8).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–119, § 6(a)(2)](/us/pl/114/119/s6/a/2), added subsec. (c).
