---
title: "§ 5321. Suspension of requirements for disaster areas"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–383, title I, § 122](/us/pl/93/383/tI/s122), as added [Pub. L. 103–233, title II, § 234](/us/pl/103/233/tII/s234), Apr. 11, 1994, [108 Stat. 369](/us/stat/108/369).)"
---
# § 5321. Suspension of requirements for disaster areas

##### § 5321. Suspension of requirements for disaster areas

For funds designated under this chapter by a recipient to address the damage in an area for which the President has declared a disaster under title IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act [[42 U.S.C. 5170](/us/usc/t42/s5170) et seq.], the Secretary may suspend all requirements for purposes of assistance under [section 5306 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5306) for that area, except for those related to public notice of funding availability, nondiscrimination, fair housing, labor standards, environmental standards, and requirements that activities benefit persons of low- and moderate-income.

*([Pub. L. 93–383, title I, § 122](/us/pl/93/383/tI/s122), as added [Pub. L. 103–233, title II, § 234](/us/pl/103/233/tII/s234), Apr. 11, 1994, [108 Stat. 369](/us/stat/108/369).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 93–383](/us/pl/93/383), Aug. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 633](/us/stat/88/633), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288), May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 143](/us/stat/88/143). Title IV of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 5170 et seq.) of chapter 68 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5121 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5121) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable with respect to any amounts made available to carry out subchapter II (§ 12721 et seq.) of chapter 130 of this title after Apr. 11, 1994, and any amounts made available to carry out that subchapter before that date that remain uncommitted on that date, with Secretary to issue any regulations necessary to carry out this section not later than end of 45-day period beginning on that date, see [section 209 of Pub. L. 103–233](/us/pl/103/233/s209), set out as an Effective Date of 1994 Amendment note under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5301).
