---
title: "§ 280g–14. National diabetes prevention program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S280g–14"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section280g–14"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 399V–3, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10501(g)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10501/g), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 996](/us/stat/124/996).)"
---
# § 280g–14. National diabetes prevention program

##### § 280g–14. National diabetes prevention program

(a) In general The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall establish a national diabetes prevention program (referred to in this section as the “program”) targeted at adults at high risk for diabetes in order to eliminate the preventable burden of diabetes.

(b) Program activities The program described in subsection (a) shall include—

(1) a grant program for community-based diabetes prevention program model sites;

(2) a program within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to determine eligibility of entities to deliver community-based diabetes prevention services;

(3) a training and outreach program for lifestyle intervention instructors; and

(4) evaluation, monitoring and technical assistance, and applied research carried out by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

(c) Eligible entities To be eligible for a grant under subsection (b)(1), an entity shall be a State or local health department, a tribal organization, a national network of community-based non-profits focused on health and wellbeing, an academic institution, or other entity, as the Secretary determines.

(d) Authorization of appropriations For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 399V–3, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10501(g)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10501/g), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 996](/us/stat/124/996).)*
