---
title: "§ 1511. Tax exemption"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30](/us/act/1938-02-16/ch30), title V, § 511, [52 Stat. 75](/us/stat/52/75); [Pub. L. 103–354, title I, § 108](/us/pl/103/354/tI/s108), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3197](/us/stat/108/3197).)"
---
# § 1511. Tax exemption

##### § 1511. Tax exemption

The Corporation, including its franchise, its capital, reserves, and surplus, and its income and property, shall be exempt from all taxation on or after February 16, 1938, imposed by the United States or by any Territory, dependency, or possession thereof, or by any State, county, municipality, or local taxing authority. A contract of insurance of the Corporation, and a contract of insurance reinsured by the Corporation, shall be exempt from taxation imposed by any State, municipality, or local taxing authority.

*([Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30](/us/act/1938-02-16/ch30), title V, § 511, [52 Stat. 75](/us/stat/52/75); [Pub. L. 103–354, title I, § 108](/us/pl/103/354/tI/s108), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3197](/us/stat/108/3197).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354) inserted at end “A contract of insurance of the Corporation, and a contract of insurance reinsured by the Corporation, shall be exempt from taxation imposed by any State, municipality, or local taxing authority.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354) effective Oct. 13, 1994, and applicable to provision of crop insurance under Federal Crop Insurance Act ([7 U.S.C. 1501](/us/usc/t7/s1501) et seq.) beginning with 1995 crop year, with such Act, as in effect on the day before Oct. 13, 1994, to continue to apply with respect to 1994 crop year, see [section 120 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s120), set out as a note under [section 1502 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1502).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Administration of program of Federal Crop Insurance Corporation transferred to Secretary of Agriculture by 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 501, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7877, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100). See note set out under [section 1503 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1503).

Wartime consolidation of Federal Crop Insurance Corporation into Agricultural Conservation and Adjustment Administration, see note set out under [section 1503 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1503).
