---
title: "§ 312303. Establishment"
identifier: "USC-T54-S312303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section312303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3252](/us/stat/128/3252).)"
---
# § 312303. Establishment

##### § 312303. Establishment

(a) Establishment.— There is established a commission to be known as the Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad.

(b) Membership.— The Commission shall consist of 21 members appointed by the President, 7 of whom shall be appointed after consultation with the Speaker of the House of Representatives and 7 of whom shall be appointed after consultation with the President pro tempore of the Senate.

(c) Term.—

(1) In general.— Except as provided in paragraph (2), a member of the Commission shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.

(2) Vacancy.— A member appointed to fill a vacancy on the Commission shall serve for the remainder of the term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed.

(3) Member until successor appointed.— A member may retain membership on the Commission until the member’s successor has been appointed.

(d) Chairman.— The President shall designate the Chairman of the Commission from among its members.

(e) Meetings.— The Commission shall meet at least once every 6 months.

(f) Compensation and Expenses.—

(1) Compensation.— Members of the Commission shall receive no pay on account of their service on the Commission.

(2) Expenses.— While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as individuals employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under [section 5703 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5703).

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3252](/us/stat/128/3252).)*

In subsection (c), the text of [16 U.S.C. 469j(d)(2)(B)](/us/usc/t16/s469j/d/2/B) is omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 312303(a) | 16 U.S.C. 469j(b). | Pub. L. 99–83, title XIII, § 1303(b), (d) through (f), Aug. 8, 1985, 99 Stat. 280. |
| 312303(b) through (f) | 16 U.S.C. 469j(d) through (f). |  |
