---
title: "§ 1308. Advisory Board; appointment; functions; membership; reimbursement for expenses"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1308"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1308"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–559, § 9](/us/pl/91/559/s9), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/84/1471).)"
---
# § 1308. Advisory Board; appointment; functions; membership; reimbursement for expenses

##### § 1308. Advisory Board; appointment; functions; membership; reimbursement for expenses

The Secretary may, without regard to the civil service laws, appoint an Advisory Board to advise and consult on matters relating to his functions under this chapter as he deems appropriate. The Board shall consist of persons chosen from members of organizations such as wildlife organizations, land-grant colleges, farm organizations, State game and fish departments, soil and water conservation district associations, water management organizations, and representatives of the general public. Members of such an Advisory Board who are not regular full-time employees of the United States shall be entitled to reimbursement on an actual expense basis for attendance at Advisory Board meetings.

*([Pub. L. 91–559, § 9](/us/pl/91/559/s9), Dec. 19, 1970, [84 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/84/1471).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Boards

Advisory boards in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
