---
title: "§ 1511. Cost of regulations"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–4, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/4/tI/s103), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 62](/us/stat/109/62).)"
---
# § 1511. Cost of regulations

##### § 1511. Cost of regulations

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of the Congress that Federal agencies should review and evaluate planned regulations to ensure that the cost estimates provided by the Congressional Budget Office will be carefully considered as regulations are promulgated.

(b) Statement of cost At the request of a committee chairman or ranking minority member, the Director shall, to the extent practicable, prepare a comparison between—

(1) an estimate by the relevant agency, prepared under [section 1532 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1532), of the costs of regulations implementing an Act containing a Federal mandate; and

(2) the cost estimate prepared by the Congressional Budget Office for such Act when it was enacted by the Congress.

(c) Cooperation of Office of Management and Budget At the request of the Director of the Congressional Budget Office, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide data and cost estimates for regulations implementing an Act containing a Federal mandate covered by part B of title IV of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 [[2 U.S.C. 658](/us/usc/t2/s658) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 104–4, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/4/tI/s103), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 62](/us/stat/109/62).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, referred to in subsec. (c), is [Pub. L. 93–344](/us/pl/93/344), July 12, 1974, [88 Stat. 297](/us/stat/88/297). Part B of title IV of the Act is classified generally to part B (§ 658 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 17A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 621 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s621) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 104–4, title I, § 110](/us/pl/104/4/tI/s110), Mar. 22, 1995, [109 Stat. 64](/us/stat/109/64), provided that: “This title [enacting this subchapter and sections 658 to 658g of this title and amending sections 602, 632, and 653 of this title] shall take effect on January 1, 1996 or on the date 90 days after appropriations are made available as authorized under section 109 [[2 U.S.C. 1516](/us/usc/t2/s1516)], whichever is earlier and shall apply to legislation considered on and after such date.”
