---
title: "§ 1374. Information regarding female genital mutilation"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1374"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1374"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title VI, § 644](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tVI/s644), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–708](/us/stat/110/3009-708).)"
---
# § 1374. Information regarding female genital mutilation

##### § 1374. Information regarding female genital mutilation

(a) Provision of information regarding female genital mutilation The Immigration and Naturalization Service (in cooperation with the Department of State) shall make available for all aliens who are issued immigrant or nonimmigrant visas, prior to or at the time of entry into the United States, the following information:

(1) Information on the severe harm to physical and psychological health caused by female genital mutilation which is compiled and presented in a manner which is limited to the practice itself and respectful to the cultural values of the societies in which such practice takes place.

(2) Information concerning potential legal consequences in the United States for (A) performing female genital mutilation, or (B) allowing a child under his or her care to be subjected to female genital mutilation, under criminal or child protection statutes or as a form of child abuse.

(b) Limitation In consultation with the Secretary of State, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization shall identify those countries in which female genital mutilation is commonly practiced and, to the extent practicable, limit the provision of information under subsection (a) to aliens from such countries.

(c) “Female genital mutilation” defined For purposes of this section, the term “female genital mutilation” means the removal or infibulation (or both) of the whole or part of the clitoris, the labia minora, or labia majora.

*([Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title VI, § 644](/us/pl/104/208/dC/tVI/s644), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–708](/us/stat/110/3009-708).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997, and not as part of the Immigration and Nationality Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions

For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under [section 1551 of this title](/us/usc/t8/s1551).
