---
title: "§ 5372. Reports"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5372"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5372"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–638, title IV, § 412](/us/pl/93/638/tIV/s412), as added [Pub. L. 116–180, title I, § 101(e)](/us/pl/116/180/tI/s101/e), Oct. 21, 2020, [134 Stat. 876](/us/stat/134/876).)"
---
# § 5372. Reports

##### § 5372. Reports

(a) In general

(1) Requirement On January 1 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report regarding the administration of this subchapter.

(2) Analysis Any Indian Tribe may submit to the Office of Self-Governance and to the appropriate committees of Congress a detailed annual analysis of unmet Tribal needs for funding agreements under this subchapter.

(b) Contents The report under subsection (a)(1) shall—

(1) be compiled from information contained in funding agreements, annual audit reports, and data of the Secretary regarding the disposition of Federal funds;

(2) identify—

(A) the relative costs and benefits of self-governance;

(B) with particularity, all funds that are specifically or functionally related to the provision by the Secretary of services and benefits to self-governance Indian Tribes and members of Indian Tribes;

(C) the funds transferred to each Indian Tribe and the corresponding reduction in the Federal employees and workload; and

(D) the funding formula for individual Tribal shares of all Central Office funds, together with the comments of affected Indian Tribes, developed under subsection (d);

(3) before being submitted to Congress, be distributed to the Indian Tribes for comment (with a comment period of not less than 30 days);

(4) include the separate views and comments of each Indian Tribe or Tribal organization; and

(5) include a list of—

(A) all such programs that the Secretary determines, in consultation with Indian Tribes participating in self-governance, are eligible for negotiation to be included in a funding agreement at the request of a participating Indian Tribe; and

(B) all such programs which Indian Tribes have formally requested to include in a funding agreement under [section 5363(c) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5363/c) due to the special geographic, historical, or cultural significance of the program to the Indian Tribe, indicating whether each request was granted or denied, and stating the grounds for any denial.

(c) Report on non-BIA programs

(1) In general In order to optimize opportunities for including non-BIA programs in agreements with Indian Tribes participating in self-governance under this subchapter, the Secretary shall review all programs administered by the Department, other than through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, or the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, without regard to the agency or office concerned.

(2) Programmatic targets The Secretary shall establish programmatic targets, after consultation with Indian Tribes participating in self-governance, to encourage bureaus of the Department to ensure that an appropriate portion of those programs are available to be included in funding agreements.

(3) Publication The lists under subsection (b)(5) and targets under paragraph (2) shall be published in the Federal Register and made available to any Indian Tribe participating in self-governance.

(4) Annual review

(A) In general The Secretary shall annually review and publish in the Federal Register, after consultation with Indian Tribes participating in self-governance, revised lists and programmatic targets.

(B) Contents In preparing the revised lists and programmatic targets, the Secretary shall consider all programs that were eligible for contracting in the original list published in the Federal Register in 1995, except for programs specifically determined not to be contractible as a matter of law.

(d) Report on Central Office funds Not later than January 1, 2020, the Secretary shall, in consultation with Indian Tribes, develop a funding formula to determine the individual Tribal share of funds controlled by the Central Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Office of the Special Trustee for inclusion in the compacts.

*([Pub. L. 93–638, title IV, § 412](/us/pl/93/638/tIV/s412), as added [Pub. L. 116–180, title I, § 101(e)](/us/pl/116/180/tI/s101/e), Oct. 21, 2020, [134 Stat. 876](/us/stat/134/876).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 5365 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5365) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 116–180](/us/pl/116/180).
