---
title: "§ 2323. Duties of Attorney General; intervenors"
identifier: "USC-T28-S2323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section2323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 970](/us/stat/62/970); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 116](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s116), [63 Stat. 105](/us/stat/63/105); [Pub. L. 93–584, § 6](/us/pl/93/584/s6), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1917](/us/stat/88/1917); [Pub. L. 95–473, § 2(a)(3)(C)](/us/pl/95/473/s2/a/3/C), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/92/1465); [Pub. L. 104–88, title III, § 305(c)(1)(C)](/us/pl/104/88/tIII/s305/c/1/C), (D), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 945](/us/stat/1"
---
# § 2323. Duties of Attorney General; intervenors

##### § 2323. Duties of Attorney General; intervenors

The Attorney General shall represent the Government in the actions specified in [section 2321 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s2321) and in enforcement actions and actions to collect civil penalties under subtitle IV of title 49.

The Surface Transportation Board and any party or parties in interest to the proceeding before the Board, in which an order or requirement is made, may appear as parties of their own motion and as of right, and be represented by their counsel, in any action involving the validity of such order or requirement or any part thereof, and the interest of such party.

Communities, associations, corporations, firms, and individuals interested in the controversy or question before the Board, or in any action commenced under the aforesaid sections may intervene in said action at any time after commencement thereof.

The Attorney General shall not dispose of or discontinue said action or proceeding over the objection of such party or intervenor, who may prosecute, defend, or continue said action or proceeding unaffected by the action or nonaction of the Attorney General therein.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 970](/us/stat/62/970); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 116](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s116), [63 Stat. 105](/us/stat/63/105); [Pub. L. 93–584, § 6](/us/pl/93/584/s6), Jan. 2, 1975, [88 Stat. 1917](/us/stat/88/1917); [Pub. L. 95–473, § 2(a)(3)(C)](/us/pl/95/473/s2/a/3/C), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/92/1465); [Pub. L. 104–88, title III, § 305(c)(1)(C)](/us/pl/104/88/tIII/s305/c/1/C), (D), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 945](/us/stat/109/945).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### 1948 Act

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 45a ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231), §§ 212, 213, [36 Stat. 1150](/us/stat/36/1150), 1151; [Oct. 22, 1913, ch. 32](/us/act/1913-10-22/ch32), [38 Stat. 220](/us/stat/38/220)).

The provision in the second sentence of [section 45a of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s45a), U.S.C., 1940 ed., authorizing the Attorney General to employ and compensate special attorneys was omitted as covered by sections 503 and 508 [now 543 and 548] of this title. The provision in the same sentence authorizing the court to make rules for the conduct and procedure of actions under this section were omitted as covered by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and [section 2071 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s2071) relating to authority of district courts to promulgate local rules of procedure.

The last paragraph of [section 45a of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s45a), U.S.C., 1940 ed., was omitted as merely repetitive of the language immediately following the first proviso.

Word “action” was substituted for “suit” in conformity with Rule 2 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### 1949 Act

This section corrects, in [section 2323 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s2323), U.S.C., the reference to certain sections in title 49, U.S.C. The provisions which were formerly set out as section 49 of such title 49 are now set out as section 23 of such title.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1995—[Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88) substituted “Surface Transportation Board” for “Interstate Commerce Commission” and substituted “the Board” for “the Commission” in two places.

1978—[Pub. L. 95–473](/us/pl/95/473) substituted “enforcement actions and actions to collect civil penalties under subtitle IV of title 49” for “actions under [section 20 of the Act of February 4, 1887](/us/act/1887-02-04/s20), as amended ([24 Stat. 386](/us/stat/24/386); [49 U.S.C. 20](/us/usc/t49/s20)), [section 23 of the Act of May 16, 1942](/us/act/1942-05-16/s23), as amended ([56 Stat. 301](/us/stat/56/301); [49 U.S.C. 23](/us/usc/t49/s23)), and [section 3 of the Act of February 19, 1903](/us/act/1903-02-19/s3), as amended ([32 Stat. 848](/us/stat/32/848); [49 U.S.C. 43](/us/usc/t49/s43))” in first par.

1975—[Pub. L. 93–584](/us/pl/93/584) struck out reference to the district courts and the Supreme Court of the United States upon appeal from the district courts as the courts in which the Attorney General can represent the United States in first par.

1949—Act May 24, 1949, substituted “20, 23, and 43” for “20, 43, and 49” in first par.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1995 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88) effective Jan. 1, 1996, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 1301 of Title 49](/us/usc/t49/s1301), Transportation.

#### Effective Date of 1975 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–584](/us/pl/93/584) not applicable to actions commenced on or before last day of first month beginning after Jan. 2, 1975, and actions to enjoin or suspend orders of Interstate Commerce Commission which are pending when this amendment becomes effective shall not be affected thereby, but shall proceed to final disposition under the law existing on the date they were commenced, see [section 10 of Pub. L. 93–584](/us/pl/93/584/s10), set out as a note under [section 2321 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s2321).
