---
title: "§ 1156. Limitation on unmanned aircraft systems"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1156"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1156"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title III, § 304(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tIII/s304/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4244](/us/stat/132/4244); amended [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXVIII, § 11803(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXVIII/s11803/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4163](/us/stat/136/4163).)"
---
# § 1156. Limitation on unmanned aircraft systems

##### § 1156. Limitation on unmanned aircraft systems

(a) In General.— During any fiscal year for which funds are appropriated for the design or construction of an Offshore Patrol Cutter, the Commandant—

(1) may not award a contract for design of an unmanned aircraft system for use by the Coast Guard; and

(2) may lease, acquire, or acquire the services of an unmanned aircraft system only if such system—

(A) has been part of a program of record of, procured by, or used by a Federal entity (or funds for research, development, test, and evaluation have been received from a Federal entity with regard to such system) before the date on which the Commandant leases, acquires, or acquires the services of the system; and

(B) is leased, acquired, or utilized by the Commandant through an agreement with a Federal entity, unless such an agreement is not practicable or would be less cost-effective than an independent contract action by the Coast Guard.

(b) Small Unmanned Aircraft Exemption.— Subsection (a)(2) does not apply to small unmanned aircraft.

(c) Definitions.— In this section, the terms “small unmanned aircraft” and “unmanned aircraft system” have the meanings given those terms in [section 44801 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s44801).

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–282, title III, § 304(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tIII/s304/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4244](/us/stat/132/4244); amended [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXVIII, § 11803(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXVIII/s11803/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4163](/us/stat/136/4163).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) substituted “[section 44801 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s44801)” for “section 331 of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 ([49 U.S.C. 40101](/us/usc/t49/s40101) note)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Prohibition on Operation or Procurement of Foreign-Made Unmanned Aircraft Systems

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIV) [LXXXIV], § 8414, Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4725](/us/stat/134/4725), as amended by [Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, § 11255](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXII/s11255), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4055](/us/stat/136/4055), provided that: “(a) Prohibition on Agency Operation or Procurement.—The Commandant [of the Coast Guard] may not operate or enter into or renew a contract for the procurement of—“(1) an unmanned aircraft system that—“(A) is manufactured in a covered foreign country or by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country; “(B) uses flight controllers, radios, data transmission devices, cameras, or gimbals manufactured in a covered foreign country or by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country; “(C) uses a ground control system or operating software developed in a covered foreign country or by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country; or “(D) uses network connectivity or data storage located in or administered by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country; or “(2) a system manufactured in a covered foreign country or by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country for the detection or identification of unmanned aircraft systems. “(b) Exemption.—The Commandant is exempt from the restriction under subsection (a) if the operation or procurement is for the purposes of—“(1) counter-UAS system surrogate testing and training; or “(2) intelligence, electronic warfare, and information warfare operations, testing, analysis, and training. “(c) Waiver.—The Commandant may waive the restriction under subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing not later than 15 days after exercising such waiver to the Department of Homeland Security, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives that the operation or procurement of a covered unmanned aircraft system is required in the national interest of the United States. “(d) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Covered foreign country.—The term ‘covered foreign country’ means any of the following:“(A) The People’s Republic of China. “(B) The Russian Federation. “(C) The Islamic Republic of Iran. “(D) The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. “(2) Covered unmanned aircraft system.—The term ‘covered unmanned aircraft system’ means an unmanned aircraft system described in paragraph (1) of subsection (a). “(3) Counter-UAS system.—The term ‘counter-UAS system’ has the meaning given such term in [section 44801 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s44801), United States Code. “(4) Unmanned aircraft system.—The term ‘unmanned aircraft system’ has the meaning given such term in [section 44801 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s44801), United States Code, and any related services and equipment. “(e) Replacement.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 [Dec. 23, 2022], the Commandant shall replace covered unmanned aircraft systems of the Coast Guard with unmanned aircraft systems manufactured in the United States or an allied country (as that term is defined in [section 2350f(d)(1) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2350f/d/1), United States Code).”
