---
title: "§ 4001. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–412, § 2](/us/pl/103/412/s2), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4239](/us/stat/108/4239).)"
---
# § 4001. Definitions

##### § 4001. Definitions

(1) The term “Special Trustee” means the Special Trustee for American Indians appointed under [section 4042 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4042).

(2) The term “Indian tribe” means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ([85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688)) [[43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.], which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.

(3) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(4) The term “Office” means the Office of Special Trustee for American Indians established by [section 4042 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4042).

(5) The term “Bureau” means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior.

(6) The term “Department” means the Department of the Interior.

*([Pub. L. 103–412, § 2](/us/pl/103/412/s2), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4239](/us/stat/108/4239).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 103–412](/us/pl/103/412), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4239](/us/stat/108/4239), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note below and Tables.

The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in par. (2), is [Pub. L. 92–203](/us/pl/92/203), Dec. 18, 1971, [85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1601) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 103–412, § 1(a)](/us/pl/103/412/s1/a), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4239](/us/stat/108/4239), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, amending sections 161a and 162a of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 161a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s161a)] may be cited as the ‘American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994’.”
