---
title: "§ 6352. Engineering and manufacturing research, development, and demonstration by managers of certain nuclear weapons production facilities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6352"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6352"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1454](/us/stat/139/1454).)"
---
# § 6352. Engineering and manufacturing research, development, and demonstration by managers of certain nuclear weapons production facilities

##### § 6352. Engineering and manufacturing research, development, and demonstration by managers of certain nuclear weapons production facilities

(a) Authority for Programs at Nuclear Weapons Productions Facilities.— The Administrator shall authorize the head of each nuclear weapons production facility to establish an Engineering and Manufacturing Research, Development, and Demonstration Program under this section.

(b) Projects and Activities.— The projects and activities carried out through the program at a nuclear weapons production facility under this section shall support innovative or high-risk design and manufacturing concepts and technologies with potentially high payoff for the nuclear security enterprise. Those projects and activities may include—

(1) replacement of obsolete or aging design and manufacturing technologies;

(2) development of innovative agile manufacturing techniques and processes; and

(3) training, recruitment, or retention of essential personnel in critical engineering and manufacturing disciplines.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1454](/us/stat/139/1454).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2812 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2812), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
