---
title: "§ 6715. Coordination with District of Columbia"
identifier: "USC-T40-S6715"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section6715"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/116/1198).)"
---
# § 6715. Coordination with District of Columbia

##### § 6715. Coordination with District of Columbia

(a) Local Needs, Initiative, and Participation.— In carrying out the purposes of this subchapter and the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act of 1972 ([Public Law 92–578](/us/pl/92/578), [86 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/86/1266)), the Administrator of General Services shall—

(1) consult and cooperate with District of Columbia officials and community leaders at the earliest practicable time;

(2) give primary consideration to local needs and desires and to local and regional goals and policies as expressed in urban renewal, community renewal, and comprehensive land use plans and regional plans; and

(3) foster local initiative and participation in connection with the planning and development of projects.

(b) Compliance With Local Requirements.— To the extent the Administrator constructs, rehabilitates, alters, or improves any project under this subchapter, the Administrator shall comply with all District of Columbia laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations. [Section 8722(d) of this title](/us/usc/t40/s8722/d) applies to all construction, rehabilitation, alteration, and improvement of all buildings by the Administrator under this subchapter. Construction, rehabilitation, alteration, and improvement of any project by non-Federal Government sources is subject to the District of Columbia Official Code and zoning regulations.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1198](/us/stat/116/1198).)*

In subsection (b), the word “reconstructing” is omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6715 | 40:878. | Pub. L. 92–578, § 9, Oct. 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1273. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act of 1972, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 92–578](/us/pl/92/578), Oct. 27, 1972, [86 Stat. 1266](/us/stat/86/1266), which was classified to chapter 19 (§ 871 et seq.) of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, prior to repeal and reenactment as [section 6701 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s6701) and this subchapter by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
