---
title: "§ 3510. Appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3510"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3510"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 8](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s8), formerly § 10, [63 Stat. 212](/us/stat/63/212); renumbered § 8, [Pub. L. 85–507, § 21(b)(2)](/us/pl/85/507/s21/b/2), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 337](/us/stat/72/337); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LIII, § 5341](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLIII/s5341), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2142](/us/stat/133/2142); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXIV, § 6415(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXIV/s6415/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3528](/us/stat/136/3528).)"
---
# § 3510. Appropriations

##### § 3510. Appropriations

(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, sums made available to the Agency by appropriation or otherwise may be expended for purposes necessary to carry out its functions, including—

(1) personal services, including personal services without regard to limitations on types of persons to be employed, and rent at the seat of government and elsewhere; health-service program as authorized by law ([5 U.S.C. 7901](/us/usc/t5/s7901)); payment of death benefits in cases in which the circumstances of the death of an employee of the Agency, a detailee of the Agency or other employee of another department or agency of the Federal Government assigned to the Agency, or an individual affiliated with the Agency (as determined by the Director), is not covered by [section 3511 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3511), other similar provisions of Federal law, or any regulation issued by the Director providing death benefits, but that the Director determines such payment appropriate; rental of news-reporting services; purchase or rental and operation of photographic, reproduction, cryptographic, duplication, and printing machines, equipment, and devices, and radio-receiving and radio-sending equipment and devices, including telegraph and teletype equipment; purchase, maintenance, operation, repair, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, and aircraft, and vessels of all kinds; subject to policies established by the Director, transportation of officers and employees of the Agency in Government-owned automotive equipment between their domiciles and places of employment, where such personnel are engaged in work which makes such transportation necessary, and transportation in such equipment, to and from school, of children of Agency personnel who have quarters for themselves and their families at isolated stations outside the continental United States where adequate public or private transportation is not available; printing and binding; purchase, maintenance, and cleaning of firearms, including purchase, storage, and maintenance of ammunition; subject to policies established by the Director, expenses of travel in connection with, and expenses incident to attendance at meetings of professional, technical, scientific, and other similar organizations when such attendance would be a benefit in the conduct of the work of the Agency; association and library dues; payment of premiums or costs of surety bonds for officers or employees without regard to the provisions of section 14 11 See References in Text note below. of title 6; payment of claims pursuant to title 28; acquisition of necessary land and the clearing of such land; construction of buildings and facilities without regard to [36 Stat. 699](/us/stat/36/699); [40 U.S.C. 259](/us/usc/t40/s259), 267; 1 repair, rental, operation, and maintenance of buildings, utilities, facilities, and appurtenances; and

(2) supplies, equipment, and personnel and contractual services otherwise authorized by law and regulations, when approved by the Director.

(b) The sums made available to the Agency may be expended without regard to the provisions of law and regulations relating to the expenditure of Government funds; and for objects of a confidential, extraordinary, or emergency nature, such expenditures to be accounted for solely on the certificate of the Director and every such certificate shall be deemed a sufficient voucher for the amount therein certified.

(c) Notification.— Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Director makes a novel and significant expenditure pursuant to subsection (a), the Director shall notify the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives of such expenditure.

*([June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 8](/us/act/1949-06-20/ch227/s8), formerly § 10, [63 Stat. 212](/us/stat/63/212); renumbered § 8, [Pub. L. 85–507, § 21(b)(2)](/us/pl/85/507/s21/b/2), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 337](/us/stat/72/337); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LIII, § 5341](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLIII/s5341), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2142](/us/stat/133/2142); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXIV, § 6415(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXIV/s6415/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3528](/us/stat/136/3528).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 14 of title 6](/us/usc/t6/s14), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), was repealed by [Pub. L. 93–310, title II, § 203(1)](/us/pl/93/310/tII/s203/1), June 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 202](/us/stat/86/202).

The reference to [36 Stat. 699](/us/stat/36/699); [40 U.S.C. 259](/us/usc/t40/s259), 267, in subsec. (a)(1), was probably meant to be a reference to section 3734 of the Revised Statutes. Section 33 of [act June 25, 1910, ch. 383](/us/act/1910-06-25/ch383), which appears at [36 Stat. 699](/us/stat/36/699), amended generally section 3734 of the Revised Statutes which was classified to sections 259 and 267 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works. Section 3734 of the Revised Statutes was subsequently repealed by [Pub. L. 86–249, § 17(12)](/us/pl/86/249/s17/12), Sept. 9, 1959, [73 Stat. 485](/us/stat/73/485).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 403j of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403j) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

In subsec. (a)(1), “([5 U.S.C. 7901](/us/usc/t5/s7901))” substituted for “([5 U.S.C. 150](/us/usc/t5/s150))” on authority of [Pub. L. 89–554, § 7(b)](/us/pl/89/554/s7/b), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 631](/us/stat/80/631), the first section of which enacted Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 8 of act June 20, 1949, was renumbered section 7 and is classified to [section 3508 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3508).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) added subsec. (c).

2019—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) inserted “payment of death benefits in cases in which the circumstances of the death of an employee of the Agency, a detailee of the Agency or other employee of another department or agency of the Federal Government assigned to the Agency, or an individual affiliated with the Agency (as determined by the Director), is not covered by [section 3511 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3511), other similar provisions of Federal law, or any regulation issued by the Director providing death benefits, but that the Director determines such payment appropriate;” before “rental of”.
