---
title: "§ 3952. Protection under installment contracts for purchase or lease"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3952"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3952"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title III, § 302, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2846](/us/stat/117/2846); amended [Pub. L. 111–275, title III, § 303(b)(3)](/us/pl/111/275/tIII/s303/b/3), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2878](/us/stat/124/2878).)"
---
# § 3952. Protection under installment contracts for purchase or lease

##### § 3952. Protection under installment contracts for purchase or lease

(a) Protection upon breach of contract

(1) Protection after entering military service After a servicemember enters military service, a contract by the servicemember for—

may not be rescinded or terminated for a breach of terms of the contract occurring before or during that person’s military service, nor may the property be repossessed for such breach without a court order.

(A) the purchase of real or personal property (including a motor vehicle); or

(B) the lease or bailment of such property,

(2) Applicability This section applies only to a contract for which a deposit or installment has been paid by the servicemember before the servicemember enters military service.

(b) Misdemeanor A person who knowingly resumes possession of property in violation of subsection (a), or in violation of [section 3918 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3918), or who knowingly attempts to do so, shall be fined as provided in title 18, or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.

(c) Authority of court In a hearing based on this section, the court—

(1) may order repayment to the servicemember of all or part of the prior installments or deposits as a condition of terminating the contract and resuming possession of the property;

(2) may, on its own motion, and shall on application by a servicemember when the servicemember’s ability to comply with the contract is materially affected by military service, stay the proceedings for a period of time as, in the opinion of the court, justice and equity require; or

(3) may make other disposition as is equitable to preserve the interests of all parties.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title III, § 302, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2846](/us/stat/117/2846); amended [Pub. L. 111–275, title III, § 303(b)(3)](/us/pl/111/275/tIII/s303/b/3), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2878](/us/stat/124/2878).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 532 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 302 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. III, [54 Stat. 1182](/us/stat/54/1182); [Oct. 6, 1942, ch. 581](/us/act/1942-10-06/ch581), §§ 9(b), (c), 10, [56 Stat. 771](/us/stat/56/771), 772; [June 23, 1952, ch. 450](/us/act/1952-06-23/ch450), [66 Stat. 151](/us/stat/66/151); [Pub. L. 102–12, § 9(9)](/us/pl/102/12/s9/9), (10), Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 40](/us/stat/105/40), related to mortgages and trust deeds, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189). See [section 3953 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3953).

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–275](/us/pl/111/275) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) related to penalties.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
