---
title: "§ 758e–1. Consultation and cooperation between certain Federal officers, affected States, etc., in carrying out program"
identifier: "USC-T16-S758e–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section758e–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–444, § 3](/us/pl/92/444/s3), Sept. 29, 1972, [86 Stat. 745](/us/stat/86/745); [Pub. L. 95–295, § 1(2)](/us/pl/95/295/s1/2), June 16, 1978, [92 Stat. 319](/us/stat/92/319).)"
---
# § 758e–1. Consultation and cooperation between certain Federal officers, affected States, etc., in carrying out program

##### § 758e–1. Consultation and cooperation between certain Federal officers, affected States, etc., in carrying out program

In carrying out the purposes of sections 758e to 758e–5 of this title, the Secretary shall consult, and may otherwise cooperate, with the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of State, the State of Hawaii and other affected States, the governments of American Samoa and Guam, the Office of the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, educational institutions, the commercial fishing industry, and all appropriate member nations of a South Pacific regional fishery agency (hereinafter referred to in sections 758e to 758e–5 of this title as the “agency”), if such an agency is formed.

*([Pub. L. 92–444, § 3](/us/pl/92/444/s3), Sept. 29, 1972, [86 Stat. 745](/us/stat/86/745); [Pub. L. 95–295, § 1(2)](/us/pl/95/295/s1/2), June 16, 1978, [92 Stat. 319](/us/stat/92/319).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–295](/us/pl/95/295) inserted provisions requiring consultation and cooperation with the Secretary of State, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and all appropriate member nations of a South Pacific regional fishery agency, if such an agency is formed.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding [section 1681 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1681), Territories and Insular Possessions.
