---
title: "§ 796–1. Administration of the independent living program"
identifier: "USC-T29-S796–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section796–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–112, title VII, § 701A](/us/pl/93/112/tVII/s701A), as added [Pub. L. 113–128, title IV, § 472](/us/pl/113/128/tIV/s472), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1685](/us/stat/128/1685).)"
---
# § 796–1. Administration of the independent living program

##### § 796–1. Administration of the independent living program

There is established within the Administration for Community Living of the Department of Health and Human Services, an Independent Living Administration. The Independent Living Administration shall be headed by a Director (referred to in this section as the “Director”) appointed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The Director shall be an individual with substantial knowledge of independent living services. The Independent Living Administration shall be the principal agency, and the Director shall be the principal officer, to carry out this part. In performing the functions of the office, the Director shall be directly responsible to the Administrator of the Administration for Community Living of the Department of Health and Human Services. The Secretary shall ensure that the Independent Living Administration has sufficient resources (including designating at least 1 individual from the Office of General Counsel who is knowledgeable about independent living services) to provide technical assistance and support to, and oversight of, the programs funded under this part.

*([Pub. L. 93–112, title VII, § 701A](/us/pl/93/112/tVII/s701A), as added [Pub. L. 113–128, title IV, § 472](/us/pl/113/128/tIV/s472), July 22, 2014, [128 Stat. 1685](/us/stat/128/1685).)*
