---
title: "§ 528. Protecting against unmanned aircraft"
identifier: "USC-T14-S528"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section528"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. H, § 1603(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dH/s1603/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3529](/us/stat/132/3529), § 104; renumbered § 528 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 105(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4200](/us/stat/132/4200), 4240.)"
---
# § 528. Protecting against unmanned aircraft

##### § 528. Protecting against unmanned aircraft

(1) functions of the U.S. Coast Guard relating to security or protection of facilities and assets assessed to be high-risk and a potential target for unlawful unmanned aircraft activity, including the security and protection of—

(A) a facility, including a facility that is under the administrative control of the Commandant; and

(B) a vessel (whether moored or underway) or an aircraft, including a vessel or aircraft—

(i) that is operated by the Coast Guard, or that the Coast Guard is assisting or escorting; and

(ii) that is directly involved in a mission of the Coast Guard pertaining to—

(I) assisting or escorting a vessel of the Department of Defense;

(II) assisting or escorting a vessel of national security significance, a high interest vessel, a high capacity passenger vessel, or a high value unit, as those terms are defined by the Secretary;

(III) [section 527(a) of this title](/us/usc/t14/s527/a);

(IV) assistance in protecting the President or the Vice President (or other officer next in order of succession to the Office of the President) pursuant to the Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 ([18 U.S.C. 3056](/us/usc/t18/s3056) note);

(V) protection of a National Special Security Event and Special Event Assessment Rating events;

(VI) air defense of the United States, including air sovereignty, ground-based air defense, and the National Capital Region integrated air defense system; or

(VII) a search and rescue operation; and

(2) missions directed by the Secretary pursuant to 22 So in original. Probably should be followed by “section”. 210G(k)(3)(C)(iii) ^1 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. H, § 1603(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dH/s1603/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3529](/us/stat/132/3529), § 104; renumbered § 528 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 105(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4200](/us/stat/132/4200), 4240.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 210G(k)(3)(C)(iii), (iv) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, referred to in text, was redesignated section 210G(*l*)(3)(C)(iii), (iv) by [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXVI, § 8602(7)](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXVI/s8602/7), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1942](/us/stat/139/1942), and is classified to section 124n(*l*)(3)(C)(iii), (iv) of Title 6, Domestic Security.

The Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976, referred to in par. (1)(B)(ii)(IV), is [Pub. L. 94–524](/us/pl/94/524), Oct. 17, 1976, [90 Stat. 2475](/us/stat/90/2475), which enacted and amended provisions set out as notes under [section 3056 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3056), Crimes and Criminal Procedure. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 105(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s105/b), renumbered [section 104 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s104) as this section.

Par. (1)(B)(ii)(III). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 527(a)” for “section 91(a)”.
