---
title: "§ 3054. Temporary closure for traditional and cultural purposes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3054"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3054"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, § 8104](/us/pl/110/234/tVIII/s8104), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1288](/us/stat/122/1288); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title VIII, § 8104, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2049.)"
---
# § 3054. Temporary closure for traditional and cultural purposes

##### § 3054. Temporary closure for traditional and cultural purposes

(a) Recognition of historic use To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall ensure access to National Forest System land by Indians for traditional and cultural purposes, in accordance with subsection (b), in recognition of the historic use by Indians of National Forest System land.

(b) Closing land from public access

(1) Authority to close Upon the approval by the Secretary of a request from an Indian tribe, the Secretary may temporarily close from public access specifically identified National Forest System land to protect the privacy of tribal activities for traditional and cultural purposes.

(2) Limitation A closure of National Forest System land under paragraph (1) shall affect the smallest practicable area for the minimum period necessary for activities of the applicable Indian tribe.

(3) Consistency Access by Indian tribes to National Forest System land under this subsection shall be consistent with the purposes of [Public Law 95–341](/us/pl/95/341) (commonly known as the American Indian Religious Freedom Act; [42 U.S.C. 1996](/us/usc/t42/s1996)).

*([Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, § 8104](/us/pl/110/234/tVIII/s8104), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1288](/us/stat/122/1288); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title VIII, § 8104, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2049.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The American Indian Religious Freedom Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is [Pub. L. 95–341](/us/pl/95/341), Aug. 11, 1978, [92 Stat. 469](/us/stat/92/469), which is classified to sections 1996 and 1996a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1996 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1996) and Tables.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and repeal of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234), see [section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4), set out as a note under [section 8701 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8701), Agriculture.

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see [section 8701 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8701), Agriculture.
