---
title: "§ 2604. Allocation, transfer and availability of funds; separate appropriation accounts on Treasury books"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2604"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2604"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–510, § 4(b)](/us/pl/87/510/s4/b), June 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 123](/us/stat/76/123).)"
---
# § 2604. Allocation, transfer and availability of funds; separate appropriation accounts on Treasury books

##### § 2604. Allocation, transfer and availability of funds; separate appropriation accounts on Treasury books

The President may allocate or transfer to any agency of the United States Government any part of any funds available for carrying out the purposes of this chapter. Such funds shall be available for obligation and expenditure for the purposes for which authorized in accordance with authority granted in this chapter or under authority governing the activities of the agencies of the United States Government to which such funds are allocated or transferred. Funds allocated or transferred pursuant to this section to any such agency may be established in separate appropriation accounts on the books of the Treasury.

*([Pub. L. 87–510, § 4(b)](/us/pl/87/510/s4/b), June 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 123](/us/stat/76/123).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 87–510](/us/pl/87/510), June 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 121](/us/stat/76/121), known as the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, which enacted this chapter, amended [section 1104 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1104), Aliens and Nationality, repealed sections 1925(a), (c), (d), and 1951(c) of this title, enacted a provision set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2601), and amended a provision set out as a note under [section 1182 of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1182). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2601) and Tables.
