---
title: "§ 1715z–1c. Regulation of rents in insured projects"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1715z–1c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1715z–1c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–242, title IV, § 425](/us/pl/100/242/tIV/s425), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1915](/us/stat/101/1915).)"
---
# § 1715z–1c. Regulation of rents in insured projects

##### § 1715z–1c. Regulation of rents in insured projects

(1) during the period of April 19, 1983, through December 1, 1987, the project owner and the Secretary have not executed, and the project owner has not filed a written request with the Secretary to enter into, an amendment to the regulatory agreement pursuant to regulations published by the Secretary on April 19, 1983, or June 4, 1986, electing to deregulate rents or utilize an alternative formula for determining the maximum allowable rents pursuant to regulations published by the Secretary on April 19, 1983, or June 4, 1986; and

(2)

(A) the project was, as of December 1, 1987, receiving a housing assistance payment under a contract pursuant to [section 1437f of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1437f) (other than under the existing housing certificate program of [section 1437f(b)(1) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1437f/b/1)); or

(B) not less than 50 percent of the units in the project are occupied by lower income families (as defined in section 1437a(a)(2) 11 Probably should be a reference to section 1437a(b)(2). of title 42).

*([Pub. L. 100–242, title IV, § 425](/us/pl/100/242/tIV/s425), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1915](/us/stat/101/1915).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Housing Act, as amended, referred to in text, is [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), [48 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/48/1246), which is classified principally to this chapter (§ 1701 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.
