---
title: "§ 7503. Cause and procedure"
identifier: "USC-T5-S7503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section7503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/95/454/tII/s204/a), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/92/1135).)"
---
# § 7503. Cause and procedure

##### § 7503. Cause and procedure

(a) Under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management, an employee may be suspended for 14 days or less for such cause as will promote the efficiency of the service (including discourteous conduct to the public confirmed by an immediate supervisor’s report of four such instances within any one-year period or any other pattern of discourteous conduct).

(b) An employee against whom a suspension for 14 days or less is proposed is entitled to—

(1) an advance written notice stating the specific reasons for the proposed action;

(2) a reasonable time to answer orally and in writing and to furnish affidavits and other documentary evidence in support of the answer;

(3) be represented by an attorney or other representative; and

(4) a written decision and the specific reasons therefor at the earliest practicable date.

(c) Copies of the notice of proposed action, the answer of the employee if written, a summary thereof if made orally, the notice of decision and reasons therefor, and any order effecting 11 So in original. Probably should be “affecting”. the suspension, together with any supporting material, shall be maintained by the agency and shall be furnished to the Merit Systems Protection Board upon its request and to the employee affected upon the employee’s request.

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/95/454/tII/s204/a), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/92/1135).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).

#### Information on Appeal Rights

[Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1097(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1097/b/2), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1617](/us/stat/131/1617), provided that: “(A) In general.—Any notice provided to an employee under section 7503(b)(1), section 7513(b)(1), or [section 7543(b)(1) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s7543/b/1), United States Code, shall include detailed information with respect to—“(i) the right of the employee to appeal an action brought under the applicable section; “(ii) the forums in which the employee may file an appeal described in clause (i); and “(iii) any limitations on the rights of the employee that would apply because of the forum in which the employee decides to file an appeal. “(B) Development of information.—The information described in subparagraph (A) shall be developed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the Special Counsel, the Merit Systems Protection Board, and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.”
