---
title: "§ 1701z–7. Studies to determine extent of need for counseling to mortgagors; report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701z–7"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701z–7"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–609, title V, § 508](/us/pl/91/609/tV/s508), as added [Pub. L. 94–375, § 26](/us/pl/94/375/s26), Aug. 3, 1976, [90 Stat. 1078](/us/stat/90/1078).)"
---
# § 1701z–7. Studies to determine extent of need for counseling to mortgagors; report to Congress

##### § 1701z–7. Studies to determine extent of need for counseling to mortgagors; report to Congress

(a) In carrying out activities under [section 1701z–1 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701z–1), the Secretary is directed to undertake programs of studies and demonstrations within at least three standard metropolitan statistical areas to determine the extent of need for and cost effectiveness of providing pre-purchase, default and delinquency counseling and related services to owners and purchasers of single-family dwellings insured or to be insured under the unsubsidized mortgage insurance programs of the National Housing Act [[12 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t12/s1701) et seq.].

(b) Within one year from August 3, 1976, the Secretary shall submit an interim report to the Congress with respect to the progress made under such studies and demonstrations, including an estimate as to the date when a final report on the results of such demonstrations will be made available to the Congress.

*([Pub. L. 91–609, title V, § 508](/us/pl/91/609/tV/s508), as added [Pub. L. 94–375, § 26](/us/pl/94/375/s26), Aug. 3, 1976, [90 Stat. 1078](/us/stat/90/1078).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Housing Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), [48 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/48/1246), which is classified principally to this chapter (§ 1701 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.
