---
title: "§ 262g–3. International negotiations on future replenishments of international financial institutions; consultation with appropriate Members of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T22-S262g–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section262g–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–118, title XII, § 1201](/us/pl/95/118/tXII/s1201), as added [Pub. L. 97–35, title XIII, § 1361(b)](/us/pl/97/35/tXIII/s1361/b), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 746](/us/stat/95/746).)"
---
# § 262g–3. International negotiations on future replenishments of international financial institutions; consultation with appropriate Members of Congress

##### § 262g–3. International negotiations on future replenishments of international financial institutions; consultation with appropriate Members of Congress

(1) the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the appropriate subcommittee of each such committee, and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the appropriate subcommittee of each such committee,

*([Pub. L. 95–118, title XII, § 1201](/us/pl/95/118/tXII/s1201), as added [Pub. L. 97–35, title XIII, § 1361(b)](/us/pl/97/35/tXIII/s1361/b), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 746](/us/stat/95/746).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Aug. 13, 1981, see [section 1372 of Pub. L. 97–35](/us/pl/97/35/s1372), set out as a note under [section 290i of this title](/us/usc/t22/s290i).
