---
title: "§ 657f–1. Certification of small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans"
identifier: "USC-T15-S657f–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section657f–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–536, § 2[36A]](/us/pl/85/536/s2/s36A), as added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, § 862(e)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tVIII/s862/e), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3781](/us/stat/134/3781).)"
---
# § 657f–1. Certification of small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans

##### § 657f–1. Certification of small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans

(a) In general With respect to the program established under [section 8127 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s8127), the Administrator shall—

(1) certify the status of a concern as a small business concern owned and controlled by veterans; and

(2) require the periodic recertification of such status.

(b) Enforcement; penalties

(1) Verification of eligibility In carrying out this section, the Administrator shall establish procedures relating to—

(A) the filing, investigation, and disposition by the Administration of any challenge to the eligibility of a small business concern to receive assistance under [section 657f of this title](/us/usc/t15/s657f) (including a challenge, filed by an interested party, relating to the veracity of a certification made or information provided to the Administration by a small business concern under subsection (a)); and

(B) verification by the Administrator of the accuracy of any certification made or information provided to the Administration by a small business concern under subsection (a).

(2) Examination of applicants The procedures established under paragraph (1) shall provide for a program of examinations by the Administrator of any small business concern making a certification or providing information to the Administrator under subsection (a), to determine the veracity of any statements or information provided as part of such certification or otherwise provided under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 85–536, § 2[36A]](/us/pl/85/536/s2/s36A), as added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, § 862(e)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tVIII/s862/e), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3781](/us/stat/134/3781).)*
