---
title: "§ 1701g–5a. Transfer of New Communities Fund assets and liabilities"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701g–5a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701g–5a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–45, title I, § 101](/us/pl/98/45/tI/s101), July 12, 1983, [97 Stat. 223](/us/stat/97/223).)"
---
# § 1701g–5a. Transfer of New Communities Fund assets and liabilities

##### § 1701g–5a. Transfer of New Communities Fund assets and liabilities

The Secretary shall transfer all assets and liabilities of the fund established pursuant to section 717 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended ([42 U.S.C. 4518](/us/usc/t42/s4518)), to the Revolving fund (liquidating programs) established pursuant to title II of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1955, as amended ([12 U.S.C. 1701g–5](/us/usc/t12/s1701g–5)).

*([Pub. L. 98–45, title I, § 101](/us/pl/98/45/tI/s101), July 12, 1983, [97 Stat. 223](/us/stat/97/223).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 717 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended ([42 U.S.C. 4518](/us/usc/t42/s4518)), referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 98–181, title I](/us/pl/98/181/tI) [title IV, § 474(e)], Nov. 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 1239](/us/stat/97/1239), but remaining in effect until completion of the transfer required in title I of the Department of Housing and Urban Development-Independent Agencies Appropriation Act, 1984.

The Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1955, as amended, referred to in text, is [act June 24, 1954, ch. 359](/us/act/1954-06-24/ch359), [68 Stat. 272](/us/stat/68/272). Provisions of title II of this Act relating to the establishment of the revolving fund (liquidating programs) are classified to [section 1701g–5 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701g–5). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development-Independent Agencies Appropriation Act, 1984, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.
