---
title: "§ 20923. Megan Nicole Kanka and Alexandra Nicole Zapp Community Notification Program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20923"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20923"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 121](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s121), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 597](/us/stat/120/597).)"
---
# § 20923. Megan Nicole Kanka and Alexandra Nicole Zapp Community Notification Program

##### § 20923. Megan Nicole Kanka and Alexandra Nicole Zapp Community Notification Program

(a) Establishment of Program There is established the Megan Nicole Kanka and Alexandra Nicole Zapp Community Notification Program (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Program”).

(b) Program notification Except as provided in subsection (c), immediately after a sex offender registers or updates a registration, an appropriate official in the jurisdiction shall provide the information in the registry (other than information exempted from disclosure by the Attorney General) about that offender to the following:

(1) The Attorney General, who shall include that information in the National Sex Offender Registry or other appropriate databases.

(2) Appropriate law enforcement agencies (including probation agencies, if appropriate), and each school and public housing agency, in each area in which the individual resides, is an employee or is a student.

(3) Each jurisdiction where the sex offender resides, is an employee, or is a student, and each jurisdiction from or to which a change of residence, employment, or student status occurs.

(4) Any agency responsible for conducting employment-related background checks under [section 40102 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s40102).

(5) Social service entities responsible for protecting minors in the child welfare system.

(6) Volunteer organizations in which contact with minors or other vulnerable individuals might occur.

(7) Any organization, company, or individual who requests such notification pursuant to procedures established by the jurisdiction.

(c) Frequency Notwithstanding subsection (b), an organization or individual described in subsection (b)(6) or (b)(7) may opt to receive the notification described in that subsection no less frequently than once every five business days.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 121](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s121), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 597](/us/stat/120/597).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16921 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16921), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
