---
title: "§ 423a–3. Petersburg National Battlefield boundary modification"
identifier: "USC-T16-S423a–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section423a–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–328, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2834](/us/pl/114/328/dB/tXXVIII/s2834), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2740](/us/stat/130/2740).)"
---
# § 423a–3. Petersburg National Battlefield boundary modification

##### § 423a–3. Petersburg National Battlefield boundary modification

(a) In general The boundary of the Petersburg National Battlefield is modified to include the land and interests in land as generally depicted on the map titled “Petersburg National Battlefield Proposed Boundary Expansion”, numbered 325/80,080, and dated June 2007/March 2016. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.

(b) Acquisition of properties

(1) Authority The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) is authorized to acquire the land and interests in land described in subsection (a) from willing sellers only, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or transfer.

(2) Omitted

(c) Administration The Secretary shall administer any land or interests in land acquired under subsection (b) as part of the Petersburg National Battlefield in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

(d) Administrative jurisdiction transfer

(1) In general There is transferred—

(A) from the Secretary to the Secretary of the Army administrative jurisdiction over the approximately 1.170-acre parcel of land depicted as “Area to be transferred to Fort Lee Military Reservation” on the map described in paragraph (2); and

(B) from the Secretary of the Army to the Secretary administrative jurisdiction over the approximately 1.171-acre parcel of land depicted as “Area to be transferred to Petersburg National Battlefield” on the map described in paragraph (2).

(2) Map The parcels of land described in paragraph (1) are depicted on the map titled “Petersburg National Battlefield Proposed Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction”, numbered 325/80,801A, dated May 2011/March 2016. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.

(3) Conditions of transfer The transfer of administrative jurisdiction under paragraph (1) is subject to the following conditions:

(A) No reimbursement or consideration The transfer shall be without reimbursement or consideration.

(B) Management

(i) Land transferred to the Secretary of the Army The land transferred to the Secretary of the Army under paragraph (1)(A) shall be excluded from the boundary of the Petersburg National Battlefield.

(ii) Land transferred to the Secretary The land transferred to the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B)—

(I) shall be included within the boundary of the Petersburg National Battlefield; and

(II) shall be administered as part of Petersburg National Battlefield in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

*([Pub. L. 114–328, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2834](/us/pl/114/328/dB/tXXVIII/s2834), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2740](/us/stat/130/2740).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 2834 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s2834). Subsec. (b)(2) of [section 2834 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s2834) amended [section 313(a) of Pub. L. 95–625](/us/pl/95/625/s313/a), [92 Stat. 3479](/us/stat/92/3479), which is not classified to the Code.
