---
title: "§ 2511. Transfers in general"
identifier: "USC-T26-S2511"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section2511"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 406](/us/stat/68A/406); [Pub. L. 89–809, title I, § 109(b)](/us/pl/89/809/tI/s109/b), Nov. 13, 1966, [80 Stat. 1575](/us/stat/80/1575); [Pub. L. 107–16, title V, § 511(e)](/us/pl/107/16/tV/s511/e), June 7, 2001, [115 Stat. 71](/us/stat/115/71); [Pub. L. 107–147, title IV, § 411(g)(1)](/us/pl/107/147/tIV/s411/g/1), Mar. 9, 2002, [116 Stat. 46](/us/stat/116/46); [Pub. L. 111–312, title III, § 302(e)](/us/pl/111/312/tIII/s302/e), Dec. "
---
# § 2511. Transfers in general

##### § 2511. Transfers in general

(a) Scope Subject to the limitations contained in this chapter, the tax imposed by section 2501 shall apply whether the transfer is in trust or otherwise, whether the gift is direct or indirect, and whether the property is real or personal, tangible or intangible; but in the case of a nonresident not a citizen of the United States, shall apply to a transfer only if the property is situated within the United States.

(b) Intangible property For purposes of this chapter, in the case of a nonresident not a citizen of the United States who is excepted from the application of section 2501(a)(2)—

which are owned and held by such nonresident shall be deemed to be property situated within the United States.

(1) shares of stock issued by a domestic corporation, and

(2) debt obligations of—

(A) a United States person, or

(B) the United States, a State or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia,

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 406](/us/stat/68A/406); [Pub. L. 89–809, title I, § 109(b)](/us/pl/89/809/tI/s109/b), Nov. 13, 1966, [80 Stat. 1575](/us/stat/80/1575); [Pub. L. 107–16, title V, § 511(e)](/us/pl/107/16/tV/s511/e), June 7, 2001, [115 Stat. 71](/us/stat/115/71); [Pub. L. 107–147, title IV, § 411(g)(1)](/us/pl/107/147/tIV/s411/g/1), Mar. 9, 2002, [116 Stat. 46](/us/stat/116/46); [Pub. L. 111–312, title III, § 302(e)](/us/pl/111/312/tIII/s302/e), Dec. 17, 2010, [124 Stat. 3302](/us/stat/124/3302).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–312](/us/pl/111/312) struck out subsec. (c). Text read as follows: “Notwithstanding any other provision of this section and except as provided in regulations, a transfer in trust shall be treated as a transfer of property by gift, unless the trust is treated as wholly owned by the donor or the donor’s spouse under subpart E of part I of subchapter J of chapter 1.”

2002—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–147](/us/pl/107/147) substituted “transfer of property by gift,” for “taxable gift under section 2503,”.

2001—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–16](/us/pl/107/16) added subsec. (c).

1966—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 89–809](/us/pl/89/809) inserted reference to nonresidents who are excepted from the application of section 2501(a)(2) and expanded section to include debt obligations of United States persons or the United States, a State or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–312](/us/pl/111/312) applicable to estates of decedents dying, generation-skipping transfers, and gifts made, after Dec. 31, 2009, see [section 302(f) of Pub. L. 111–312](/us/pl/111/312/s302/f), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2001).

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–147](/us/pl/107/147) effective as if included in the provisions of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001, [Pub. L. 107–16](/us/pl/107/16), to which such amendment relates, see [section 411(x) of Pub. L. 107–147](/us/pl/107/147/s411/x), set out as a note under [section 25B of this title](/us/usc/t26/s25B).

#### Effective Date of 2001 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–16](/us/pl/107/16) applicable to gifts made after Dec. 31, 2009, see [section 511(f)(3) of Pub. L. 107–16](/us/pl/107/16/s511/f/3), set out as a note under [section 2502 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2502).

#### Effective Date of 1966 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 89–809](/us/pl/89/809) applicable with respect to calendar year 1967 and all calendar years thereafter, see [section 109(c) of Pub. L. 89–809](/us/pl/89/809/s109/c), set out as a note under [section 2501 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2501).
