---
title: "§ 7103. Issuance and amendment of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–407, § 4](/us/pl/103/407/s4), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4213](/us/stat/108/4213).)"
---
# § 7103. Issuance and amendment of orders

##### § 7103. Issuance and amendment of orders

(a) In general Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary shall issue orders under this chapter applicable to producers, feeders, importers, handlers, and purchasers of sheep and sheep products. Any order shall be national in scope. Not more than 1 order shall be in effect under this chapter at any 1 time.

(b) Procedure

(1) Proposal or request for issuance The Secretary may propose the issuance of an order under this chapter, or an association of producers may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for, an order.

(2) Notice and comment concerning proposed order Not later than 60 days after the receipt of a request and proposal for an order under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall publish a proposed order and give due notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order.

(3) Issuance of orders After notice and opportunity for public comment are given as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue an order, taking into consideration the comments received, that includes provisions necessary to ensure that the order is in conformity with this chapter. The order shall be issued not later than 180 days following publication of the proposed order.

(4) Referendum The order shall go into effect only if the order is approved by producers, feeders, and importers in a referendum conducted under [section 7105 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7105).

(c) Amendments The Secretary, from time to time, may amend any order issued under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 103–407, § 4](/us/pl/103/407/s4), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4213](/us/stat/108/4213).)*
