---
title: "§ 1660b. Treatment of certain demonstration projects"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1660b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1660b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 512](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s512), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 503](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s503), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4569](/us/stat/106/4569); amended [Pub. L. 105–256, § 4(b)](/us/pl/105/256/s4/b), Oct. 14, 1998, [112 Stat. 1897](/us/stat/112/1897); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1660b. Treatment of certain demonstration projects

##### § 1660b. Treatment of certain demonstration projects

(1) be permanent programs within the Service’s direct care program;

(2) continue to be treated as Service units and operating units in the allocation of resources and coordination of care; and

(3) continue to meet the requirements and definitions of an urban Indian organization in this chapter, and shall not be subject to the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.).11 See References in Text note below.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title V, § 512](/us/pl/94/437/tV/s512), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title V, § 503](/us/pl/102/573/tV/s503), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4569](/us/stat/106/4569); amended [Pub. L. 105–256, § 4(b)](/us/pl/105/256/s4/b), Oct. 14, 1998, [112 Stat. 1897](/us/stat/112/1897); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in par. (3), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400), known as the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.), referred to in par. (3), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which was classified principally to subchapter II (§ 450 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on sections 101(b)(8) and 162 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which were enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to treatment of certain demonstration projects as Service units in the allocation of resources and coordination of care.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) struck out subsec. (c), which authorized appropriations to carry out this section through fiscal year 2002, prior to general amendment of section. See above.

1998—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 105–256](/us/pl/105/256) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Permanent Programs Under the Direct Care Program of the Indian Health Service

[Pub. L. 108–447, div. E, title II](/us/pl/108/447/dE/tII), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3087](/us/stat/118/3087), provided in part that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Tulsa and Oklahoma City Clinic demonstration projects shall be permanent programs under the direct care program of the Indian Health Service; shall be treated as service units and operating units in the allocation of resources and coordination of care; shall continue to meet the requirements applicable to an Urban Indian organization under this title [title II of div. E of [Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447), see Tables for classification]; and shall not be subject to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ([25 U.S.C. 450](/us/usc/t25/s450) et seq.) [now [25 U.S.C. 5301](/us/usc/t25/s5301) et seq.].”

#### Extension of Terms of Projects

[Pub. L. 105–256, § 4(a)](/us/pl/105/256/s4/a), Oct. 14, 1998, [112 Stat. 1897](/us/stat/112/1897), provided for extension of terms of projects referred to in [section 1660b of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1660b) to Oct. 1, 2002.
