---
title: "§ 15811. Voluntary commitments to reduce industrial energy intensity"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15811"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15811"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 106](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s106), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 611](/us/stat/119/611).)"
---
# § 15811. Voluntary commitments to reduce industrial energy intensity

##### § 15811. Voluntary commitments to reduce industrial energy intensity

(a) Definition of energy intensity In this section, the term “energy intensity” means the primary energy consumed for each unit of physical output in an industrial process.

(b) Voluntary agreements The Secretary may enter into voluntary agreements with one or more persons in industrial sectors that consume significant quantities of primary energy for each unit of physical output to reduce the energy intensity of the production activities of the persons.

(c) Goal Voluntary agreements under this section shall have as a goal the reduction of energy intensity by not less than 2.5 percent each year during the period of calendar years 2007 through 2016.

(d) Recognition The Secretary, in cooperation with other appropriate Federal agencies, shall develop mechanisms to recognize and publicize the achievements of participants in voluntary agreements under this section.

(e) Technical assistance A person that enters into an agreement under this section and continues to make a good faith effort to achieve the energy efficiency goals specified in the agreement shall be eligible to receive from the Secretary a grant or technical assistance, as appropriate, to assist in the achievement of those goals.

(f) Report Not later than each of June 30, 2012, and June 30, 2017, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that—

(1) evaluates the success of the voluntary agreements under this section; and

(2) provides independent verification of a sample of the energy savings estimates provided by participating firms.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 106](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s106), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 611](/us/stat/119/611).)*
