---
title: "§ 3416. Labor market information on Indian work force"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3416"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3416"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–477, § 15](/us/pl/102/477/s15), formerly § 17, Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/106/2305); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 10(e)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s10/e/1), (2)(C), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4589](/us/stat/108/4589); renumbered § 15 and amended [Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93), §§ 15, 16(b), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2036](/us/stat/131/2036).)"
---
# § 3416. Labor market information on Indian work force

##### § 3416. Labor market information on Indian work force

(a) Report The Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary, Indian tribes, and the Director of the Bureau of the Census, shall develop, maintain and publish, not less than biennially, a report on the population eligible for the services which the Secretary provides to Indian people. The report shall include, but is not limited to, information at the national level by State, Bureau of Indian Affairs Service area, and tribal level for the—

(1) total service population;

(2) the service population under age 16 and over 64;

(3) the population available for work, including those not considered to be actively seeking work;

(4) the employed population, including those employed with annual earnings below the poverty line; and

(5) the numbers employed in private sector positions and in public sector positions.

(b) Indian demographic information The Secretary, in consultation with the Bureau of the Census of the Department of Commerce, and the National Center for Native American Studies and Policy Development authorized by [Public Law 101–301](/us/pl/101/301), shall prepare a report on the need for comprehensive, accurate and periodically updated information on the size and characteristics of the Indian and Alaska Native population throughout the entire United States. This report shall include the need for information, together with the cost of acquiring such information, on the characteristics and need for education, health, housing, job training, and other basic needs of such population, and shall take into consideration the need for this information by Indian tribes and organizations serving Indians in nonreservation areas. The report shall be submitted to the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives not later than 12 months after October 23, 1992.

*([Pub. L. 102–477, § 15](/us/pl/102/477/s15), formerly § 17, Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2305](/us/stat/106/2305); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 10(e)(1)](/us/pl/103/437/s10/e/1), (2)(C), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4589](/us/stat/108/4589); renumbered § 15 and amended [Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93), §§ 15, 16(b), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2036](/us/stat/131/2036).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Public Law 101–301](/us/pl/101/301), referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 101–301](/us/pl/101/301), May 24, 1990, [104 Stat. 206](/us/stat/104/206). [Section 11 of Pub. L. 101–301](/us/pl/101/301/s11), which authorized feasibility study for the establishment of a National Center for Native American Studies and Policy Development, is not classified to the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 15 of Pub. L. 102–477](/us/pl/102/477/s15) was classified to [section 3414 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3414), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93).

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–93, § 15](/us/pl/115/93/s15), in introductory provisions, substituted “The Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary, Indian tribes, and the Director of the Bureau of the Census, shall” for “The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall, in a consistent and reliable manner,” and struck out “, by gender,” after “population”.

1994—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Committee on Indian” for “Select Committee on Indian” and “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.
