---
title: "§ 1907. Practices involving nonambulatory livestock"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1907"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1907"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–171, title X, § 10815](/us/pl/107/171/tX/s10815), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 532](/us/stat/116/532).)"
---
# § 1907. Practices involving nonambulatory livestock

##### § 1907. Practices involving nonambulatory livestock

(a) Report The Secretary of Agriculture shall investigate and submit to Congress a report on—

(1) the scope of nonambulatory livestock;

(2) the causes that render livestock nonambulatory;

(3) the humane treatment of nonambulatory livestock; and

(4) the extent to which nonambulatory livestock may present handling and disposition problems for stockyards, market agencies, and dealers.

(b) Authority Based on the findings of the report, if the Secretary determines it necessary, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations to provide for the humane treatment, handling, and disposition of nonambulatory livestock by stockyards, market agencies, and dealers.

(c) Administration and enforcement For the purpose of administering and enforcing any regulations promulgated under subsection (b), the authorities provided under sections 10414 [[7 U.S.C. 8313](/us/usc/t7/s8313)] and 10415 [[7 U.S.C. 8314](/us/usc/t7/s8314)] shall apply to the regulations in a similar manner as those sections apply to the Animal Health Protection Act [[7 U.S.C. 8301](/us/usc/t7/s8301) et seq.]. Any person that violates regulations promulgated under subsection (b) shall be subject to penalties provided in section 10414.

*([Pub. L. 107–171, title X, § 10815](/us/pl/107/171/tX/s10815), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 532](/us/stat/116/532).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Animal Health Protection Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is subtitle E (§§ 10401–10418) of title X of [Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 494](/us/stat/116/494), which is classified principally to chapter 109 (§ 8301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 8301 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s8301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 and not as part of [Pub. L. 85–765](/us/pl/85/765), which comprises this chapter.
