---
title: "§ 310. Civil defense"
identifier: "USC-T23-S310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-09-29"
last_updated: "2025-09-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title23-section310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "23"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–767](/us/pl/85/767), Aug. 27, 1958, [72 Stat. 914](/us/stat/72/914); [Pub. L. 93–87, title I, § 152(3)](/us/pl/93/87/tI/s152/3), Aug. 13, 1973, [87 Stat. 276](/us/stat/87/276).)"
---
# § 310. Civil defense

##### § 310. Civil defense

In order to assure that adequate consideration is given to civil defense aspects in the planning and construction of highways constructed or reconstructed with the aid of Federal funds, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized and directed to consult, from time to time, with the Federal Civil Defense Administrator relative to the civil defense aspects of highways so constructed or reconstructed.

*([Pub. L. 85–767](/us/pl/85/767), Aug. 27, 1958, [72 Stat. 914](/us/stat/72/914); [Pub. L. 93–87, title I, § 152(3)](/us/pl/93/87/tI/s152/3), Aug. 13, 1973, [87 Stat. 276](/us/stat/87/276).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1973—[Pub. L. 93–87](/us/pl/93/87) substituted “Secretary of Transportation” for “Secretary of Commerce”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Office of Federal Civil Defense Administrator, referred to in text, abolished and functions thereof transferred to President by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1958, set out as a note under [section 5195 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5195), The Public Health and Welfare. The Plan also established a new agency in the Executive Office of the President, known as the Office of Defense and Civilian Mobilization to be headed by a Director. Office redesignated as the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization by act Aug. 26, 1958 ([72 Stat. 861](/us/stat/72/861); [42 U.S.C. 5195](/us/usc/t42/s5195) note). Civil defense functions transferred to Secretary of Defense by Executive Order No. 10952 of July 20, 1961, formerly set out as a note under section 2271 of the former Appendix to Title 50, War and National Defense, and remaining functions redesignated Office of Emergency Planning by act Sept. 22, 1961 ([75 Stat. 630](/us/stat/75/630); [42 U.S.C. 5195](/us/usc/t42/s5195) note). Office redesignated Office of Emergency Preparedness by act Oct. 21, 1968 ([82 Stat. 1194](/us/stat/82/1194); [42 U.S.C. 5195](/us/usc/t42/s5195) note). Office of Emergency Preparedness including office of Director abolished and functions thereof transferred to President by Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1973, set out as a note under [section 5195 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5195).
