---
title: "§ 2041. Deposit of moneys in pending or adjudicated cases"
identifier: "USC-T28-S2041"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section2041"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 960](/us/stat/62/960); [Pub. L. 97–258, § 2(g)(4)(C)](/us/pl/97/258/s2/g/4/C), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1061](/us/stat/96/1061).)"
---
# § 2041. Deposit of moneys in pending or adjudicated cases

##### § 2041. Deposit of moneys in pending or adjudicated cases

All moneys paid into any court of the United States, or received by the officers thereof, in any case pending or adjudicated in such court, shall be forthwith deposited with the Treasurer of the United States or a designated depositary, in the name and to the credit of such court.

This section shall not prevent the delivery of any such money to the rightful owners upon security, according to agreement of parties, under the direction of the court.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 960](/us/stat/62/960); [Pub. L. 97–258, § 2(g)(4)(C)](/us/pl/97/258/s2/g/4/C), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1061](/us/stat/96/1061).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 851 (R.S. § 995; [May 29, 1920, ch. 214, § 1](/us/act/1920-05-29/ch214/s1), [41 Stat. 654](/us/stat/41/654)).

Changes were made in phraseology.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1982—[Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258) substituted “Deposit of moneys in pending or adjudicated cases” for “Deposit” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Registry Administration Account

[Pub. L. 100–459, title IV, § 400](/us/pl/100/459/tIV/s400), Oct. 1, 1988, [102 Stat. 2211](/us/stat/102/2211), provided: “That any funds hereafter collected by the Judiciary as a charge for services rendered in administering accounts kept in a court’s registry shall be deposited into a separate account entitled ‘Registry Administration Account’ in the Treasury of the United States. Such funds shall remain available to the Judiciary until expended to reimburse any appropriation for the amount paid out of such appropriation for expenses of the Courts of Appeals, District Courts and Other Judicial Services and the Administrative Office of the United States Courts”.
