---
title: "§ 18652. Helium conservation program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18652"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18652"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–246, title III, § 314](/us/pl/115/246/tIII/s314), as added [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10112(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10112/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1460](/us/stat/136/1460).)"
---
# § 18652. Helium conservation program

##### § 18652. Helium conservation program

(a) In general The Secretary shall establish a program to reduce the consumption of helium for Department grant recipients and facilities and encourage helium recycling and reuse. The program shall competitively award grants for—

(1) the purchase of equipment to capture, reuse, and recycle helium;

(2) the installation, maintenance, and repair of new and existing helium capture, reuse, and recycling equipment; and

(3) helium alternatives research and development activities.

(b) Report Not later than 2 years after August 9, 2022, and every 3 years thereafter, the Director shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on the purchase of helium as part of research projects and facilities supported by the Department. The report shall include—

(1) the quantity of helium purchased for projects and facilities supported by Department grants;

(2) a cost-analysis for such helium;

(3) to the maximum extent practicable, information on whether such helium was imported from outside the United States, and if available, the country or region of the world from which the helium was imported;

(4) expected or experienced impacts of helium supply shortages or prices on the research projects and facilities supported by the Department; and

(5) recommendations for reducing Department grant recipients’ exposure to volatile helium prices and supply shortages.

(c) Coordination In carrying out the program under this section, the Director shall coordinate with the National Science Foundation and other relevant Federal agencies on helium conservation activities.

(d) Duration The program established under this section shall receive support for a period of not more than 5 years, subject to the availability of appropriations.

(e) Renewal Upon expiration of any period of support of the program under this section, the Director may renew support for the program for a period of not more than 5 years.

*([Pub. L. 115–246, title III, § 314](/us/pl/115/246/tIII/s314), as added [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10112(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10112/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1460](/us/stat/136/1460).)*
