---
title: "§ 6562. Transfers of funds by Secretary of Senate; approval of Committee on Appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6562"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6562"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–276, § 101(e)](/us/pl/97/276/s101/e), Oct. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/96/1189).)"
---
# § 6562. Transfers of funds by Secretary of Senate; approval of Committee on Appropriations

##### § 6562. Transfers of funds by Secretary of Senate; approval of Committee on Appropriations

During any fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal year beginning October 1, 1982) the Secretary of the Senate is authorized to make such transfers between appropriations of funds available for disbursement by him during such year, subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 97–276, § 101(e)](/us/pl/97/276/s101/e), Oct. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 1189](/us/stat/96/1189).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 64–2 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s64–2) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is based on section 104 of S. 2939, Ninety-seventh Congress, 2d Session, as reported Sept. 22, 1982, and incorporated by reference in [section 101(e) of Pub. L. 97–276](/us/pl/97/276/s101/e), to be effective as if enacted into law.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Funds by Secretary of Senate

Provisions authorizing Secretary of Senate, as Disbursing Officer of Senate, to make such transfers between appropriations of funds available for disbursement by him for specific fiscal years, as he deems appropriate, subject to customary reprograming procedures of Senate Committee on Appropriations were contained in the following appropriation acts:

[Pub. L. 97–51, § 113](/us/pl/97/51/s113), Oct. 1, 1981, [95 Stat. 963](/us/stat/95/963).

[Pub. L. 97–12, title I, § 107](/us/pl/97/12/tI/s107), June 5, 1981, [95 Stat. 62](/us/stat/95/62).
