---
title: "§ 80501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T46-S80501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section80501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 11](/us/pl/109/304/s11), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1694](/us/stat/120/1694).)"
---
# § 80501. Definitions

##### § 80501. Definitions

(1) Container.— The term “container” has the meaning given that term in the Convention.

(2) Convention.— The term “Convention” means the International Convention for Safe Containers, and its annexes, done at Geneva, Switzerland, December 2, 1972.

(3) International transport.— The term “international transport” means the transportation of a container between—

(A) a place in a foreign country and a place in the jurisdiction of the United States; or

(B) two places outside the United States by United States carriers.

(4) Owner.— The term “owner” includes the lessee or bailee of a container if a written lease or bailment provides for the lessee or bailee to exercise the owner’s responsibility for maintaining and examining the container.

(5) Safety approval plate.— The term “safety approval plate” has the meaning given that term in annex I of the Convention.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 11](/us/pl/109/304/s11), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1694](/us/stat/120/1694).)*

In the definition of “international transport”, subparagraphs (A) and (B) are substituted for 46 App. U.S.C. 1501(d)(1)–(3) to eliminate unnecessary words.

In the definition of “owner”, the words “includes the lessee or bailee of a container if a written lease or bailment provides for the lessee or bailee to exercise the owner’s responsibility for maintaining and examining the container” are substituted for “means a person who owns a container, or, if a written lease or bailment provides for the lessee or bailee to exercise the owner’s responsibility for maintaining and examining the container, the lessee or bailee of a container, to the extent such agreement so provides” to eliminate unnecessary words.

The definition of “Secretary” is omitted because a complete reference to the appropriate Secretary is used the first time the Secretary is named in each section. Throughout this chapter, the phrase “Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating” is substituted for “Secretary of Transportation” because the Coast Guard has been transferred to the Department of Homeland Security (except when operating as a service in the Navy) by section 888 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ([Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296), [116 Stat. 2249](/us/stat/116/2249)).

The definition of “United States” is omitted because “United States” is defined in chapter 1 of the revised title. The definitions of “new container” and “existing container” are omitted as obsolete.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 80501 | 46 App.:1501. | Pub. L. 95–208, § 2, Dec. 13, 1977, 91 Stat. 1475. |
