---
title: "§ 40722. DNA training and education for law enforcement, correctional personnel, and court officers"
identifier: "USC-T34-S40722"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section40722"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–405, title III, § 303](/us/pl/108/405/tIII/s303), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2273](/us/stat/118/2273); [Pub. L. 110–360, § 3](/us/pl/110/360/s3), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4008](/us/stat/122/4008); [Pub. L. 113–182, § 3](/us/pl/113/182/s3), Sept. 29, 2014, [128 Stat. 1918](/us/stat/128/1918); [Pub. L. 116–104, § 3](/us/pl/116/104/s3), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3272](/us/stat/133/3272).)"
---
# § 40722. DNA training and education for law enforcement, correctional personnel, and court officers

##### § 40722. DNA training and education for law enforcement, correctional personnel, and court officers

(a) In general The Attorney General shall make grants to provide training, technical assistance, education, and information relating to the identification, collection, preservation, analysis, and use of DNA samples and DNA evidence by—

(1) law enforcement personnel, including police officers and other first responders, evidence technicians, investigators, and others who collect or examine evidence of crime;

(2) court officers, including State and local prosecutors, defense lawyers, and judges;

(3) forensic science professionals; and

(4) corrections personnel, including prison and jail personnel, and probation, parole, and other officers involved in supervision.

(b) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated $12,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2024 to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 108–405, title III, § 303](/us/pl/108/405/tIII/s303), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2273](/us/stat/118/2273); [Pub. L. 110–360, § 3](/us/pl/110/360/s3), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4008](/us/stat/122/4008); [Pub. L. 113–182, § 3](/us/pl/113/182/s3), Sept. 29, 2014, [128 Stat. 1918](/us/stat/128/1918); [Pub. L. 116–104, § 3](/us/pl/116/104/s3), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3272](/us/stat/133/3272).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14136 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14136), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–104](/us/pl/116/104) substituted “2019 through 2024” for “2015 through 2019”.

2014—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 113–182](/us/pl/113/182) substituted “2015 through 2019” for “2009 through 2014”.

2008—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–360](/us/pl/110/360) substituted “2009 through 2014” for “2005 through 2009”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Incentive Grants to States To Ensure Consideration of Claims of Actual Innocence

[Pub. L. 108–405, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/108/405/tIV/s413), Oct. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2285](/us/stat/118/2285), as amended by [Pub. L. 114–324, § 12(a)](/us/pl/114/324/s12/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1957](/us/stat/130/1957), provided that: “For each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021, all funds appropriated to carry out sections 303, 305, 308, and 412 [sections 40722, 40724, 40726, and 40727 of this title] shall be reserved for grants to eligible entities that— “(1) meet the requirements under section 303, 305, 308, or 412, as appropriate; and “(2) for eligible entities that are a State or unit of local government, provide a certification by the chief legal officer of the State in which the eligible entity operates or the chief legal officer of the jurisdiction in which the funds will be used for the purposes of the grants, that the State or jurisdiction—“(A) provides DNA testing of specified evidence under a State statute or a State or local rule or regulation to persons sentenced to imprisonment or death for a State felony offense, in a manner intended to ensure a reasonable process for resolving claims of actual innocence that ensures post-conviction DNA testing in at least those cases that would be covered by [section 3600(a) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3600/a), United States Code, had they been Federal cases and, if the results of the testing exclude the applicant as the source of the DNA, permits the applicant to apply for post-conviction relief, notwithstanding any provision of law that would otherwise bar the application as untimely; and “(B) preserves biological evidence, as defined in [section 3600A of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3600A), United States Code, under a State statute or a State or local rule, regulation, or practice in a manner intended to ensure that reasonable measures are taken by the State or jurisdiction to preserve biological evidence secured in relation to the investigation or prosecution of, at a minimum, murder, nonnegligent manslaughter and sexual offenses.”
