---
title: "§ 20919. Duty to notify sex offenders of registration requirements and to register"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20919"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20919"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 117](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s117), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 595](/us/stat/120/595).)"
---
# § 20919. Duty to notify sex offenders of registration requirements and to register

##### § 20919. Duty to notify sex offenders of registration requirements and to register

(a) In general An appropriate official shall, shortly before release of the sex offender from custody, or, if the sex offender is not in custody, immediately after the sentencing of the sex offender, for the offense giving rise to the duty to register—

(1) inform the sex offender of the duties of a sex offender under this subchapter and explain those duties;

(2) require the sex offender to read and sign a form stating that the duty to register has been explained and that the sex offender understands the registration requirement; and

(3) ensure that the sex offender is registered.

(b) Notification of sex offenders who cannot comply with subsection (a) The Attorney General shall prescribe rules for the notification of sex offenders who cannot be registered in accordance with subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 117](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s117), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 595](/us/stat/120/595).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 590](/us/stat/120/590), known as the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16917 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16917), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
