---
title: "§ 1621o. Indian youth grant program"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1621o"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1621o"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title II, § 216](/us/pl/94/437/tII/s216), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title II, § 212](/us/pl/102/573/tII/s212), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4554](/us/stat/106/4554); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1621o. Indian youth grant program

##### § 1621o. Indian youth grant program

(a) Grants The Secretary, acting through the Service, is authorized to make grants to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations for innovative mental and physical disease prevention and health promotion and treatment programs for Indian preadolescent and adolescent youths.

(b) Use of funds

(1) Funds made available under this section may be used to—

(A) develop prevention and treatment programs for Indian youth which promote mental and physical health and incorporate cultural values, community and family involvement, and traditional healers; and

(B) develop and provide community training and education.

(2) Funds made available under this section may not be used to provide services described in [section 1665g(c) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1665g/c).

(c) Models for delivery of comprehensive health care services The Secretary shall—

(1) disseminate to Indian tribes information regarding models for the delivery of comprehensive health care services to Indian and urban Indian adolescents;

(2) encourage the implementation of such models; and

(3) at the request of an Indian tribe, provide technical assistance in the implementation of such models.

(d) Criteria for review and approval of applications The Secretary shall establish criteria for the review and approval of applications under this section.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title II, § 216](/us/pl/94/437/tII/s216), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title II, § 212](/us/pl/102/573/tII/s212), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4554](/us/stat/106/4554); amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on sections 101(b)(4) and 131 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which were enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) substituted “[section 1665g(c) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1665g/c)” for “[section 1621h(m) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1621h/m)”.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) struck out subsec. (e) which authorized appropriations for fiscal years 1993 to 2000.
