---
title: "§ 1456. Compensation and expenses of inspectors between ports; reimbursement"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1456"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1456"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 456, [46 Stat. 716](/us/stat/46/716).)"
---
# § 1456. Compensation and expenses of inspectors between ports; reimbursement

##### § 1456. Compensation and expenses of inspectors between ports; reimbursement

The compensation of any inspector or other customs officer, stationed on any vessel or vehicle while proceeding from one port to another and returning therefrom, shall be reimbursed to the Government by the master or owner of such vessel, together with the actual expense of such inspector or customs officer for subsistence, or in lieu of such expenses such vessel or vehicle may furnish such inspector or customs officer, the accommodations usually supplied to passengers.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 456, [46 Stat. 716](/us/stat/46/716).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 455](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s455), [42 Stat. 955](/us/stat/42/955). That section was superseded by section 456 of act June 17, 1930, comprising this section, and repealed by section 651(a)(1) of the 1930 act.

Provisions on the subject matter of this section were contained in R.S. § 2878, and particular provisions for certain ports in sections 2588 and 2833. Section 2878 contained a further provision prohibiting inspectors from performing any other duties or service than what was required by that title. All these sections were repealed by [act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 356, title IV, § 642](/us/act/1922-09-21/ch356/tIV/s642), [42 Stat. 989](/us/stat/42/989).
