---
title: "§ 6274. Exchange of information with International Energy Agency"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6274"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6274"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–163, title II, § 254](/us/pl/94/163/tII/s254), Dec. 22, 1975, [89 Stat. 899](/us/stat/89/899); [Pub. L. 95–619, title VI, § 691(b)(2)](/us/pl/95/619/tVI/s691/b/2), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3288](/us/stat/92/3288); [Pub. L. 96–72, § 22(b)(2)](/us/pl/96/72/s22/b/2), Sept. 29, 1979, [93 Stat. 535](/us/stat/93/535).)"
---
# § 6274. Exchange of information with International Energy Agency

##### § 6274. Exchange of information with International Energy Agency

(a) Submission of information by Secretary to Secretary of State; transmittal to Agency; aggregation and reporting of geological or geophysical information, trade secrets, or commercial or financial information; availability of such information during international energy supply emergency; certification by President that Agency has adopted security measures; review of compliance of other nations with program; petition to President for changes in procedure

(1) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary, after consultation with the Attorney General, may provide to the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of State may transmit to the International Energy Agency established by the international energy program, the information and data related to the energy industry certified by the Secretary of State as required to be submitted under the international energy program.

(2)

(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, any such information or data which is geological or geophysical information or a trade secret or commercial or financial information to which section 552(b)(9) or (b)(4) of title 5 applies shall, prior to such transmittal, be aggregated, accumulated, or otherwise reported in such manner as to avoid, to the fullest extent feasible, identification of any person from whom the United States obtained such information or data, and in the case of geological or geophysical information, a competitive disadvantage to such person.

(B)

(i) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, during an international energy supply emergency, any such information or data with respect to the international allocation of petroleum products may be made available to the International Energy Agency is otherwise authorized to be made available to such Agency by paragraph (1) of this subsection.

(ii) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to information described in subparagraph (A) (other than geological or geophysical information) if the President certifies, after opportunity for presentation of views by interested persons, that the International Energy Agency has adopted and is implementing security measures which assure that such information will not be disclosed by such Agency or its employees to any person or foreign country without having been aggregated, accumulated, or otherwise reported in such manner as to avoid identification of any person from whom the United States obtained such information or data.

(3)

(A) Within 90 days after December 22, 1975, and periodically thereafter, the President shall review the operation of this section and shall determine whether other signatory nations to the international energy program are transmitting information and data to the International Energy Agency in substantial compliance with such program. If the President determines that other nations are not so complying, paragraph (2)(B)(ii) shall not apply until he determines other nations are so complying.

(B) Any person who believes he has been or will be damaged by the transmittal of information or data pursuant to this section shall have the right to petition the President and to request changes in procedures which will protect such person from any competitive damage.

(b) Halting transmittal of information that would prejudice competition, violate antitrust laws, or be inconsistent with security interests If the President determines that the transmittal of data or information pursuant to the authority of this section would prejudice competition, violate the antitrust laws, or be inconsistent with United States national security interests, he may require that such data or information not be transmitted.

(c) Information protected by statute Information and data the confidentiality of which is protected by statute shall not be provided by the Secretary to the Secretary of State under subsection (a) of this section for transmittal to the International Energy Agency, unless the Secretary has obtained the specific concurrence of the head of any department or agency which has the primary statutory authority for the collection, gathering, or obtaining of such information and data. In making a determination to concur in providing such information and data, the head of any department or agency which has the primary statutory authority for the collection, gathering, or obtaining of such information and data shall consider the purposes for which such information and data were collected, gathered, and obtained, the confidentiality provisions of such statutory authority, and the international obligations of the United States under the international energy program with respect to the transmittal of such information and data to an international organization or foreign country.

(d) Continuation of authority to collect data under Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act and Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 For the purposes of carrying out the obligations of the United States under the international energy program, the authority to collect data granted by sections 11 and 13 of the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act [[15 U.S.C. 796](/us/usc/t15/s796)] and the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 [[15 U.S.C. 772](/us/usc/t15/s772)], respectively, shall continue in full force and effect without regard to the provisions of such Acts relating to their expiration.

(e) Limitation on disclosure contained in other laws The authority under this section to transmit information shall be subject to any limitations on disclosure contained in other laws, except that such authority may be exercised without regard to—

(1) section 11(d) of the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974 [[15 U.S.C. 796(d)](/us/usc/t15/s796/d)];

(2) section 14(b) of the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 [[15 U.S.C. 773(b)](/us/usc/t15/s773/b)];

(3) section 12 11 See References in Text note below. of the Export Administration Act of 1979;

(4) [section 9 of title 13](/us/usc/t13/s9);

(5) [section 176a of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s176a); and

(6) [section 1905 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1905).

*([Pub. L. 94–163, title II, § 254](/us/pl/94/163/tII/s254), Dec. 22, 1975, [89 Stat. 899](/us/stat/89/899); [Pub. L. 95–619, title VI, § 691(b)(2)](/us/pl/95/619/tVI/s691/b/2), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3288](/us/stat/92/3288); [Pub. L. 96–72, § 22(b)(2)](/us/pl/96/72/s22/b/2), Sept. 29, 1979, [93 Stat. 535](/us/stat/93/535).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The provisions of such Acts relating to their expiration, referred to in subsec. (d), means [section 11(g) of Pub. L. 93–319](/us/pl/93/319/s11/g), June 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 246](/us/stat/88/246), the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act, which enacted [section 796(g) of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s796/g), and [section 30 of Pub. L. 93–275](/us/pl/93/275/s30), May 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 97](/us/stat/88/97), the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974, which is set out as a note under [section 761 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s761).

Section 12 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, referred to in subsec. (e)(3), was classified to [section 4614 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4614), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1766(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1766/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/132/2232).

#### Amendments

1979—Subsec. (e)(3). [Pub. L. 96–72](/us/pl/96/72) substituted “12” for “7” and “1979” for “1969”.

1978—Subsecs. (a)(1), (c). [Pub. L. 95–619](/us/pl/95/619) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator”, meaning Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration, wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–72](/us/pl/96/72) effective upon the expiration of the Export Administration Act of 1969, which terminated on Sept. 30, 1979, or upon any prior date which the Congress by concurrent resolution or the President by proclamation designated, see [Pub. L. 96–72, § 19(a)](/us/pl/96/72/s19/a), Sept. 29, 1979, [93 Stat. 535](/us/stat/93/535), which was classified to [section 4621 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4621), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1766(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1766/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/132/2232).
