---
title: "§ 2313b. Support of Army civil works program"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2313b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2313b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–303, title II, § 229](/us/pl/104/303/tII/s229), Oct. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 3703](/us/stat/110/3703).)"
---
# § 2313b. Support of Army civil works program

##### § 2313b. Support of Army civil works program

(a) General authority In carrying out research and development in support of the civil works program of the Department of the Army, the Secretary may utilize contracts, cooperative research and development agreements, cooperative agreements, and grants with non-Federal entities, including State and local governments, colleges and universities, consortia, professional and technical societies, public and private scientific and technical foundations, research institutions, educational organizations, and nonprofit organizations.

(b) Commercial application With respect to contracts for research and development, the Secretary may include requirements that have potential commercial application and may use such potential application as an evaluation factor where appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 104–303, title II, § 229](/us/pl/104/303/tII/s229), Oct. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 3703](/us/stat/110/3703).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1996, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–303](/us/pl/104/303/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
