---
title: "§ 6152. Completion of material protection, control, and accounting activities in the Russian Federation"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6152"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6152"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1372](/us/stat/139/1372).)"
---
# § 6152. Completion of material protection, control, and accounting activities in the Russian Federation

##### § 6152. Completion of material protection, control, and accounting activities in the Russian Federation

(a) In General.— Except as provided in subsection (b) or specifically authorized by Congress, international material protection, control, and accounting activities in the Russian Federation shall be completed not later than fiscal year 2018.

(b) Exception.— The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to international material protection, control, and accounting activities in the Russian Federation associated with the Agreement Concerning the Management and Disposition of Plutonium Designated as No Longer Required for Defense Purposes and Related Cooperation, signed at Moscow and Washington August 29 and September 1, 2000, and entered into force July 13, 2011 (TIAS 11–713.1), between the United States and the Russian Federation.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1372](/us/stat/139/1372).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6152 was renumbered [section 8263 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8263).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 3122(b) of Pub. L. 113–291](/us/pl/113/291/s3122/b), which was set out as a note under [section 2565 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2565), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(14)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/14).
