---
title: "§ 785. Foreign ownership; comprehensive review; sources of information; report to Congress; monitoring activity"
identifier: "USC-T15-S785"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section785"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–275, § 26](/us/pl/93/275/s26), May 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 115](/us/stat/88/115).)"
---
# § 785. Foreign ownership; comprehensive review; sources of information; report to Congress; monitoring activity

##### § 785. Foreign ownership; comprehensive review; sources of information; report to Congress; monitoring activity

The Administrator shall conduct a comprehensive review of foreign ownership of, influence on, and control of domestic energy sources and supplies. Such review shall draw upon existing information, where available, and any independent investigation necessary by the Administration. The Administrator shall, on or before the expiration of the one hundred and eighty day period following the effective date of this chapter, report to the Congress in sufficient detail so as to apprise the Congress as to the extent and forms of such foreign ownership of, influence on, and control of domestic energy sources and supplies, and shall thereafter continue to monitor such ownership, influence and control.

*([Pub. L. 93–275, § 26](/us/pl/93/275/s26), May 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 115](/us/stat/88/115).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Federal Energy Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.
