---
title: "§ 11162. Rail carrier cost accounting system"
identifier: "USC-T49-S11162"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section11162"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 836](/us/stat/109/836).)"
---
# § 11162. Rail carrier cost accounting system

##### § 11162. Rail carrier cost accounting system

(a) Each rail carrier shall have and maintain a cost accounting system that is in compliance with the rules promulgated by the Board under [section 11161 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s11161). A rail carrier may, after notifying the Board, make modifications in such system unless, within 60 days after the date of notification, the Board finds such modifications to be inconsistent with the rules promulgated by the Board under [section 11161 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s11161).

(b) For purposes of determining whether the cost accounting system of a rail carrier is in compliance with the rules promulgated by the Board, the Board shall have the right to examine and make copies of any documents, papers, or records of such rail carrier relating to compliance with such rules. Such documents, papers, and records (and any copies thereof) shall not be subject to the mandatory disclosure requirements of [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552).

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 836](/us/stat/109/836).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 11164 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s11164) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

A prior section 11162, added [Pub. L. 96–448, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/96/448/tIII/s302/a), Oct. 14, 1980, [94 Stat. 1935](/us/stat/94/1935); amended [Pub. L. 103–272, § 4(j)(30)](/us/pl/103/272/s4/j/30), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1370](/us/stat/108/1370), related to cost accounting principles, prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
