---
title: "§ 19112. Entrepreneurial fellowships"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10392](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10392), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1588](/us/stat/136/1588).)"
---
# § 19112. Entrepreneurial fellowships

##### § 19112. Entrepreneurial fellowships

(a) In general The Director, acting through the Directorate for Technology, Innovation, and Partnerships, shall award fellowships to scientists and engineers to help develop leaders capable of maturing promising ideas and technologies from lab to market or other use and forge connections between academic research and the government, industry, financial sectors, and other end users.

(b) Application An applicant for a fellowship under this section shall submit to the Director an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require. At a minimum, the Director shall require that applicants—

(1) have completed a doctoral degree in a STEM field no more than 5 years prior to the date of the application, or have otherwise demonstrated significant postbaccalaureate scientific research experience and are considered early career, according to requirements established by the Director; and

(2) have included in the application a proposal for how the fellow will be embedded in a host institution’s research environment.

(c) Outreach The Director shall conduct program outreach to recruit fellowship applicants—

(1) from diverse research institutions;

(2) from all regions of the country; and

(3) from groups historically underrepresented in STEM fields.

(d) Administration agreements The Director may enter into an agreement with a qualified third-party entity to administer the fellowships, subject to the provisions of this section.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director a total of $125,000,000 for fiscal years 2023 through 2027, to carry out the activities outlined in this section.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10392](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10392), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1588](/us/stat/136/1588).)*
