---
title: "§ 18651. High intensity laser research initiative"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18651"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18651"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–246, title III, § 313](/us/pl/115/246/tIII/s313), as added [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10112(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10112/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1459](/us/stat/136/1459).)"
---
# § 18651. High intensity laser research initiative

##### § 18651. High intensity laser research initiative

(a) In general The Director shall establish a high intensity laser research initiative consistent with the recommendations of the National Academies report entitled “Opportunities in Intense Ultrafast Lasers: Reaching for the Brightest Light” and the report from the Brightest Light Initiative workshop entitled “The Future of Intense Ultrafast Lasers in the U.S.”. The initiative should include research and development of petawatt-scale and of high average power laser technologies necessary for future facility needs in discovery science and to advance energy technologies, as well as support for a user network of academic and National Laboratory high intensity laser facilities.

(b) Leverage The Director shall leverage new laser technologies for more compact, less complex, and low-cost accelerator systems needed for science applications.

(c) Coordination

(1) Director The Director shall coordinate the initiative established under subsection (a) among all relevant programs within the Office of Science.

(2) Under Secretary The Under Secretary for Science shall coordinate the initiative established under subsection (a) with other relevant programs within the Department and other Federal agencies.

(d) Authorization of appropriations Out of funds authorized to be appropriated for the Office of Science in a fiscal year, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the activities described in this section—

(1) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2023;

(2) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2024;

(3) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2025;

(4) $200,000,000 for fiscal year 2026; and

(5) $250,000,000 for fiscal year 2027.

*([Pub. L. 115–246, title III, § 313](/us/pl/115/246/tIII/s313), as added [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10112(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10112/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1459](/us/stat/136/1459).)*
