---
title: "§ 4011. Approval and entry into force of the Agreement"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4011"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4011"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–53, title I, § 101](/us/pl/109/53/tI/s101), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 464](/us/stat/119/464).)"
---
# § 4011. Approval and entry into force of the Agreement

##### § 4011. Approval and entry into force of the Agreement

(a) Approval of Agreement and statement of administrative action Pursuant to [section 3805 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3805) and [section 2191 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2191), the Congress approves—

(1) the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement entered into on August 5, 2004, with the Governments of Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, and submitted to the Congress on June 23, 2005; and

(2) the statement of administrative action proposed to implement the Agreement that was submitted to the Congress on June 23, 2005.

(b) Conditions for entry into force of the Agreement At such time as the President determines that countries listed in subsection (a)(1) have taken measures necessary to comply with the provisions of the Agreement that are to take effect on the date on which the Agreement enters into force, the President is authorized to provide for the Agreement to enter into force with respect to those countries that provide for the Agreement to enter into force for them.

*([Pub. L. 109–53, title I, § 101](/us/pl/109/53/tI/s101), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 464](/us/stat/119/464).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107/d), see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107), set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4001).
