---
title: "§ 1815. Monetary allowance"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1815"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1815"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/106/419/tIV/s401/a), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1858](/us/stat/114/1858).)"
---
# § 1815. Monetary allowance

##### § 1815. Monetary allowance

(a) Monetary Allowance.— The Secretary shall pay a monthly allowance to any eligible child for any disability resulting from the covered birth defects of that child.

(b) Schedule for Rating Disabilities.—

(1) The amount of the monthly allowance paid under this section shall be based on the degree of disability suffered by the child concerned, as determined in accordance with a schedule for rating disabilities resulting from covered birth defects that is prescribed by the Secretary.

(2) In prescribing a schedule for rating disabilities for the purposes of this section, the Secretary shall establish four levels of disability upon which the amount of the allowance provided by this section shall be based. The levels of disability established may take into account functional limitations, including limitations on cognition, communication, motor abilities, activities of daily living, and employability.

(c) Amount of Monthly Allowance.— The amount of the monthly allowance paid under this section shall be as follows:

(1) In the case of a child suffering from the lowest level of disability prescribed in the schedule for rating disabilities under subsection (b), $100.

(2) In the case of a child suffering from the lower intermediate level of disability prescribed in the schedule for rating disabilities under subsection (b), the greater of—

(A) $214; or

(B) the monthly amount payable under [section 1805(b)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1805/b/3) for the lowest level of disability prescribed for purposes of that section.

(3) In the case of a child suffering from the higher intermediate level of disability prescribed in the schedule for rating disabilities under subsection (b), the greater of—

(A) $743; or

(B) the monthly amount payable under [section 1805(b)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1805/b/3) for the intermediate level of disability prescribed for purposes of that section.

(4) In the case of a child suffering from the highest level of disability prescribed in the schedule for rating disabilities under subsection (b), the greater of—

(A) $1,272; or

(B) the monthly amount payable under [section 1805(b)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1805/b/3) for the highest level of disability prescribed for purposes of that section.

(d) Indexing to Social Security Benefit Increases.— Amounts under paragraphs (1), (2)(A), (3)(A), and (4)(A) of subsection (c) shall be subject to adjustment from time to time under [section 5312 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5312).

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/106/419/tIV/s401/a), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1858](/us/stat/114/1858).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1815 was renumbered [section 3703(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3703/a/2).
