---
title: "§ 2013. Computerized management information system"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2013"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2013"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1133](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1133), as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title X, § 1042](/us/pl/107/110/tX/s1042), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 2055](/us/stat/115/2055).)"
---
# § 2013. Computerized management information system

##### § 2013. Computerized management information system

(a) In general Not later than 12 months after January 8, 2002, the Secretary shall update the computerized management information system within the Office. The information to be updated shall include information regarding—

(1) student enrollment;

(2) curricula;

(3) staffing;

(4) facilities;

(5) community demographics;

(6) student assessment information;

(7) information on the administrative and program costs attributable to each Bureau program, divided into discrete elements;

(8) relevant reports;

(9) personnel records;

(10) finance and payroll; and

(11) such other items as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(b) Implementation of system Not later than July 1, 2003, the Secretary shall complete the implementation of the updated computerized management information system at each Bureau field office and Bureau-funded school.

*([Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1133](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1133), as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title X, § 1042](/us/pl/107/110/tX/s1042), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 2055](/us/stat/115/2055).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2013, [Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1133](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1133), as added [Pub. L. 103–382, title III, § 381](/us/pl/103/382/tIII/s381), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 4010](/us/stat/108/4010), related to management information system, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110).

Another prior section 2013, [Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1133](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1133), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2327](/us/stat/92/2327), related to Bureau education policies, practices, and procedures, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 103–382](/us/pl/103/382).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 8, 2002, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110/s5), set out as a note under [section 6301 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s6301), Education.
