---
title: "§ 4101. Authority of officers of Congress over Congressional employees"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–510, title IV, § 431](/us/pl/91/510/tIV/s431), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1190](/us/stat/84/1190).)"
---
# § 4101. Authority of officers of Congress over Congressional employees

##### § 4101. Authority of officers of Congress over Congressional employees

(a) Qualifications determinations; removal and discipline Each officer of the Congress having responsibility for the supervision of employees, including employees appointed upon recommendation of Members of Congress, shall have authority—

(1) to determine, before the appointment of any individual as an employee under the supervision of that officer of the Congress, whether that individual possesses the qualifications necessary for the satisfactory performance of the duties and responsibilities to be assigned to him; and

(2) to remove or otherwise discipline any employee under his supervision.

(b) “Officer of the Congress” defined As used in this section, the term “officer of the Congress” means—

(1) an elected officer of the Senate or House of Representatives who is not a Member of the Senate or House; and

(2) The Architect of the Capitol.

*([Pub. L. 91–510, title IV, § 431](/us/pl/91/510/tIV/s431), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1190](/us/stat/84/1190).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 60–1 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s60–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective immediately prior to noon on Jan. 3, 1971, see [section 601(1) of Pub. L. 91–510](/us/pl/91/510/s601/1), set out as an Effective Date of 1970 Amendment note under [section 4301 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s4301).
