---
title: "§ 2809. Limitation on use of Federal funds"
identifier: "USC-T43-S2809"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section2809"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title VII, § 759A](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tVII/s759A), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3427](/us/stat/132/3427).)"
---
# § 2809. Limitation on use of Federal funds

##### § 2809. Limitation on use of Federal funds

(a) Definition In this section, the term “implementation date” means the date that is 5 years after the date on which standards for each National Geospatial Data Asset data theme are established under [section 2806 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2806).

(b) Limitation Except as provided otherwise in this section, on and after the implementation date, a covered agency may not use Federal funds for the collection, production, acquisition, maintenance, or dissemination of geospatial data that does not comply with the applicable standards established under [section 2806 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2806), as determined by the Committee.

(c) Exception for existing geospatial data On and after the implementation date, a covered agency may use Federal funds to maintain and disseminate geospatial data that does not comply with the applicable standards established under [section 2806 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2806) if the geospatial data was collected, produced, or acquired by the covered agency before the implementation date.

(d) Waiver

(1) In general The Chairperson of the Committee may grant a waiver of the limitation under subsection (b), upon a request from a covered agency submitted in accordance with paragraph (2).

(2) Requirements A request for a waiver under paragraph (1) shall—

(A) be submitted not later than 30 days before the implementation date;

(B) provide a detailed explanation of the reasons for seeking a waiver;

(C) provide a detailed plan to achieve compliance with the applicable standards established under [section 2806 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2806); and

(D) provide the date by which the covered agency shall achieve compliance with the applicable standards established under [section 2806 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2806).

(e) Best efforts to comply during transition During the period beginning on the date on which standards for a National Geospatial Data Asset data theme are established under [section 2806 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s2806) and ending on the implementation date, each covered agency, to the maximum extent practicable, shall collect, produce, acquire, maintain, and disseminate geospatial data within the National Geospatial Data Asset data theme in accordance with the standards.

*([Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title VII, § 759A](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tVII/s759A), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3427](/us/stat/132/3427).)*
