---
title: "§ 6303. Intermodal transportation database"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 890](/us/stat/126/890).)"
---
# § 6303. Intermodal transportation database

##### § 6303. Intermodal transportation database

(a) In General.— In consultation with the Under Secretary Transportation for Policy, the Assistant Secretaries of the Department, and the heads of the operating administrations of the Department, the Director shall establish and maintain a transportation database for all modes of transportation.

(b) Use.— The database established under this section shall be suitable for analyses carried out by the Federal Government, the States, and metropolitan planning organizations.

(c) Contents.— The database established under this section shall include—

(1) information on the volumes and patterns of movement of goods, including local, interregional, and international movement, by all modes of transportation, intermodal combinations, and relevant classification;

(2) information on the volumes and patterns of movement of people, including local, interregional, and international movements, by all modes of transportation (including bicycle and pedestrian modes), intermodal combinations, and relevant classification;

(3) information on the location and connectivity of transportation facilities and services; and

(4) a national accounting of expenditures and capital stocks on each mode of transportation and intermodal combination.

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 890](/us/stat/126/890).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.
