---
title: "§ 546. Establishment of Saint Helena Island National Scenic Area, Michigan"
identifier: "USC-T16-S546"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section546"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–431, § 2](/us/pl/106/431/s2), Nov. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 1905](/us/stat/114/1905).)"
---
# § 546. Establishment of Saint Helena Island National Scenic Area, Michigan

##### § 546. Establishment of Saint Helena Island National Scenic Area, Michigan

(a) Purpose The purposes of sections 546 to 546a–5 of this title are—

(1) to preserve and protect for present and future generations the outstanding resources and values of Saint Helena Island in Lake Michigan, Michigan; and

(2) to provide for the conservation, protection, and enhancement of primitive recreation opportunities, fish and wildlife habitat, vegetation, and historical and cultural resources of the island.

(b) Establishment For the purposes described in subsection (a), there shall be established the Saint Helena Island National Scenic Area (in sections 546 to 546a–5 of this title referred to as the “scenic area”).

(c) Effective upon conveyance Subsection (b) shall be effective upon conveyance of satisfactory title to the United States of the whole of Saint Helena Island, except that portion conveyed to the Great Lakes Lighthouse Keepers Association pursuant to section 1001 of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1996 ([Public Law 104–324](/us/pl/104/324); [110 Stat. 3948](/us/stat/110/3948)).

*([Pub. L. 106–431, § 2](/us/pl/106/431/s2), Nov. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 1905](/us/stat/114/1905).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1001 of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1996, referred to in subsec. (c), is [section 1001 of Pub. L. 104–324](/us/pl/104/324/s1001), title X, Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3948](/us/stat/110/3948), which is not classified to the Code.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 106–431, § 1](/us/pl/106/431/s1), Nov. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 1905](/us/stat/114/1905), provided that: “This Act [enacting sections 546 to 546a–5 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Saint Helena Island National Scenic Area Act’.”
