---
title: "§ 2259B. Child pornography victims reserve"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2259B"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2259B"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–299, § 5(c)](/us/pl/115/299/s5/c), Dec. 7, 2018, [132 Stat. 4387](/us/stat/132/4387).)"
---
# § 2259B. Child pornography victims reserve

##### § 2259B. Child pornography victims reserve

(a) Deposits Into the Reserve.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, there shall be deposited into the Child Pornography Victims Reserve established under section 1402(d)(6) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 ([34 U.S.C. 20101(d)](/us/usc/t34/s20101/d)) all assessments collected under section 2259A and any gifts, bequests, or donations to the Child Pornography Victims Reserve from private entities or individuals.

(b) Availability for Defined Monetary Assistance.— Amounts in the Child Pornography Victims Reserve shall be available for payment of defined monetary assistance pursuant to section 2259(d). If at any time the Child Pornography Victims Reserve has insufficient funds to make all of the payments ordered under section 2259(d), the Child Pornography Victims Reserve shall make such payments as it can satisfy in full from available funds. In determining the order in which such payments shall be made, the Child Pornography Victims Reserve shall make payments based on the date they were ordered, with the earliest-ordered payments made first.

(c) Administration.— The Attorney General shall administer the Child Pornography Victims Reserve and shall issue guidelines and regulations to implement this section.

(d) Sense of Congress.— It is the sense of Congress that individuals who violate this chapter prior to the date of the enactment of the Amy, Vicky, and Andy Child Pornography Victim Assistance Act of 2018, but who are sentenced after such date, shall be subject to the statutory scheme that was in effect at the time the offenses were committed.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–299, § 5(c)](/us/pl/115/299/s5/c), Dec. 7, 2018, [132 Stat. 4387](/us/stat/132/4387).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the Amy, Vicky, and Andy Child Pornography Victim Assistance Act of 2018, referred to in subsec. (d), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 115–299](/us/pl/115/299), which was approved Dec. 7, 2018.
