---
title: "§ 3507. Appraisals"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXVI, § 2607](/us/pl/102/486/tXXVI/s2607), as added [Pub. L. 115–325, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/115/325/tII/s204/a), Dec. 18, 2018, [132 Stat. 4463](/us/stat/132/4463).)"
---
# § 3507. Appraisals

##### § 3507. Appraisals

(a) In general For any transaction that requires approval of the Secretary and involves mineral or energy resources held in trust by the United States for the benefit of an Indian tribe or by an Indian tribe subject to Federal restrictions against alienation, any appraisal relating to fair market value of those resources required to be prepared under applicable law may be prepared by—

(1) the Secretary;

(2) the affected Indian tribe; or

(3) a certified, third-party appraiser pursuant to a contract with the Indian tribe.

(b) Secretarial review and approval Not later than 45 days after the date on which the Secretary receives an appraisal prepared by or for an Indian tribe under paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (a), the Secretary shall—

(1) review the appraisal; and

(2) approve the appraisal unless the Secretary determines that the appraisal fails to meet the standards set forth in regulations promulgated under subsection (d).

(c) Notice of disapproval If the Secretary determines that an appraisal submitted for approval under subsection (b) should be disapproved, the Secretary shall give written notice of the disapproval to the Indian tribe and a description of—

(1) each reason for the disapproval; and

(2) how the appraisal should be corrected or otherwise cured to meet the applicable standards set forth in the regulations promulgated under subsection (d).

(d) Regulations The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to carry out this section, including standards the Secretary shall use for approving or disapproving the appraisal described in subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XXVI, § 2607](/us/pl/102/486/tXXVI/s2607), as added [Pub. L. 115–325, title II, § 204(a)](/us/pl/115/325/tII/s204/a), Dec. 18, 2018, [132 Stat. 4463](/us/stat/132/4463).)*
