---
title: "§ 1594. Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Ad­visory Council"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1594"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1594"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–320, title II, § 204](/us/pl/93/320/tII/s204), June 24, 1974, [88 Stat. 272](/us/stat/88/272).)"
---
# § 1594. Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Ad­visory Council

##### § 1594. Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Ad­visory Council

(a) There is created the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Advisory Council composed of no more than three members from each State appointed by the Governor of each of the Colorado River Basin States.

(b) The Council shall be advisory only and shall—

(1) act as liaison between both the Secretaries of Interior and Agriculture and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the States in accomplishing the purposes of this subchapter;

(2) receive reports from the Secretary on the progress of the salinity control program and review and comment on said reports; and

(3) recommend to both the Secretary and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency appropriate studies of further projects, techniques, or methods for accomplishing the purposes of this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 93–320, title II, § 204](/us/pl/93/320/tII/s204), June 24, 1974, [88 Stat. 272](/us/stat/88/272).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Councils

Advisory councils established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a council established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such council is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a council established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
