---
title: "§ 47112. Carrying out airport development projects"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/108/1267); [Pub. L. 107–217, § 3(n)(8)](/us/pl/107/217/s3/n/8), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/116/1303); [Pub. L. 112–95, title I, § 139](/us/pl/112/95/tI/s139), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 26](/us/stat/126/26); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 135](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s135), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3209](/us/stat/132/3209).)"
---
# § 47112. Carrying out airport development projects

##### § 47112. Carrying out airport development projects

(a) Construction Work.— The Secretary of Transportation may inspect and approve construction work for an airport development project carried out under a grant agreement under this subchapter. The construction work must be carried out in compliance with regulations the Secretary prescribes. The regulations shall require the sponsor to make necessary cost and progress reports on the project. The regulations may amend or modify a contract related to the project only if the contract was made with actual notice of the regulations.

(b) Prevailing Wages.— A contract for more than $2,000 involving labor for an airport development project carried out under a grant agreement under this subchapter must require contractors to pay labor minimum wage rates as determined by the Secretary of Labor under sections 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40. The minimum rates must be included in the bids for the work and in the invitation for those bids.

(c) Veterans’ Preference.—

(1) In this subsection—

(A) “disabled veteran” has the same meaning given that term in [section 2108 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2108).

(B) “Vietnam-era veteran” means an individual who served on active duty (as defined in [section 101 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s101)) in the armed forces for more than 180 consecutive days, any part of which occurred after August 4, 1964, and before May 8, 1975, and who was discharged or released from active duty in the armed forces under honorable conditions.

(C) “Afghanistan-Iraq war veteran” means an individual who served on active duty (as defined in [section 101 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s101)) in the armed forces in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation New Dawn, Operation Inherent Resolve, Operation Freedom’s Sentinel, or any successor contingency operation to such operations for more than 180 consecutive days, any part of which occurred after September 11, 2001, and before the date prescribed by presidential proclamation or by law as the last day of Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation New Dawn, Operation Inherent Resolve, Operation Freedom’s Sentinel, or any successor contingency operation to such operations (whichever is later), and who was discharged or released from active duty in the armed forces under honorable conditions.

(D) “Persian Gulf veteran” means an individual who served on active duty in the armed forces in the Southwest Asia theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War for more than 180 consecutive days, any part of which occurred after August 2, 1990, and before the date prescribed by presidential proclamation or by law, and who was discharged or released from active duty in the armed forces under honorable conditions.

(2) A contract involving labor for carrying out an airport development project under a grant agreement under this subchapter must require that preference in the employment of labor (except in executive, administrative, and supervisory positions) be given to Vietnam-era veterans, Persian Gulf veterans, Afghanistan-Iraq war veterans, disabled veterans, and small business concerns (as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 632](/us/usc/t15/s632))) owned and controlled by disabled veterans when they are available and qualified for the employment.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/108/1267); [Pub. L. 107–217, § 3(n)(8)](/us/pl/107/217/s3/n/8), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/116/1303); [Pub. L. 112–95, title I, § 139](/us/pl/112/95/tI/s139), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 26](/us/stat/126/26); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 135](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s135), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3209](/us/stat/132/3209).)*

In this section, the words “for an airport development project carried out under a grant agreement under this subchapter” are substituted for “on any project for airport development contained in an approved project grant application submitted in accordance with this chapter” in 49 App.:2214(a), “on projects for airport development approved under this chapter” in 49 App.:2214(b), and “under project grants for airport development approved under this chapter” in 49 App.:2214(c) for clarity and consistency in this section. See H.R. Rept. No. 97–760, 97th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 715 (1982).

In subsection (a), the words “or sponsors” are omitted because of 1:1.

In subsection (b), the words “must require contractors to pay labor minimum wage rates” are substituted for “shall contain provisions establishing minimum rates of wages . . . which contractors shall pay to skilled and unskilled labor” to eliminate unnecessary words. The word “proposals” is omitted as included in “bids”.

Subsection (c)(1)(A) is substituted for “a disabled veteran is an individual described in [section 2108(2) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2108/2)” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code.

In subsection (c)(1)(B), the words “after August 4, 1964, and before May 8, 1975” are substituted for “during the period beginning August 5, 1964, and ending May 7, 1975” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code and to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (c)(2), the words “must require that” are substituted for “shall contain such provisions as are necessary to insure that”, and the words “when they are available and qualified for the employment” are substituted for “However, this preference shall apply only where the individuals are available and qualified to perform the work to which the employment relates”, to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 47112(a) | 49 App.:2214(a). | Sept. 3, 1982, Pub. L. 97–248, § 515, 96 Stat. 691. |
| 47112(b) | 49 App.:2214(b). |  |
| 47112(c) | 49 App.:2214(c). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (c)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) substituted “Operation New Dawn, Operation Inherent Resolve, Operation Freedom’s Sentinel, or any successor contingency operation to such operations for more” for “or Operation New Dawn for more” and “Operation New Dawn, Operation Inherent Resolve, Operation Freedom’s Sentinel, or any successor contingency operation to such operations (whichever is later)” for “or Operation New Dawn (whichever is later)”.

2012—Subsec. (c)(1)(B). [Pub. L. 112–95, § 139(1)(A)](/us/pl/112/95/s139/1/A), substituted “discharged or released from active duty in” for “separated from”.

Subsec. (c)(1)(C), (D). [Pub. L. 112–95, § 139(1)(B)](/us/pl/112/95/s139/1/B), added subpars. (C) and (D).

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 112–95, § 139(2)](/us/pl/112/95/s139/2), substituted “Vietnam-era veterans, Persian Gulf veterans, Afghanistan-Iraq war veterans, disabled veterans, and small business concerns (as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 632](/us/usc/t15/s632))) owned and controlled by disabled veterans” for “Vietnam-era veterans and disabled veterans”.

2002—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217) substituted “sections 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40” for “the Act of March 3, 1931 (known as the Davis-Bacon Act) ([40 U.S.C. 276a](/us/usc/t40/s276a)—276a–5)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Priority Review of Construction Projects in Cold Weather States

[Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 156(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s156/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3217](/us/stat/132/3217), as amended by [Pub. L. 118–63, title II, § 218(n)(1)](/us/pl/118/63/tII/s218/n/1), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1057](/us/stat/138/1057), provided that: “The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, to the extent practicable, shall schedule the Administrator’s review of construction projects so that projects to be carried out in the States in which the weather during a typical calendar year prevents major construction projects from being carried out before May 1 are reviewed as early as possible.”

[Pub. L. 112–95, title I, § 154](/us/pl/112/95/tI/s154), Feb. 14, 2012, [126 Stat. 35](/us/stat/126/35), which provided that the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration review as early as possible construction projects in States in which the weather prevents major projects from being carried out before May 1, was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 156(b)](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s156/b), formerly § 156(c), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3218](/us/stat/132/3218), renumbered § 156(b), [Pub. L. 118–63, title II, § 218(n)(2)](/us/pl/118/63/tII/s218/n/2), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1057](/us/stat/138/1057).
