---
title: "§ 12141. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12141"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12141"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–336, title II, § 221](/us/pl/101/336/tII/s221), July 26, 1990, [104 Stat. 338](/us/stat/104/338).)"
---
# § 12141. Definitions

##### § 12141. Definitions

(1) Demand responsive system The term “demand responsive system” means any system of providing designated public transportation which is not a fixed route system.

(2) Designated public transportation The term “designated public transportation” means transportation (other than public school transportation) by bus, rail, or any other conveyance (other than transportation by aircraft or intercity or commuter rail transportation (as defined in [section 12161 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12161))) that provides the general public with general or special service (including charter service) on a regular and continuing basis.

(3) Fixed route system The term “fixed route system” means a system of providing designated public transportation on which a vehicle is operated along a prescribed route according to a fixed schedule.

(4) Operates The term “operates”, as used with respect to a fixed route system or demand responsive system, includes operation of such system by a person under a contractual or other arrangement or relationship with a public entity.

(5) Public school transportation The term “public school transportation” means transportation by schoolbus vehicles of schoolchildren, personnel, and equipment to and from a public elementary or secondary school and school-related activities.

(6) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Transportation.

*([Pub. L. 101–336, title II, § 221](/us/pl/101/336/tII/s221), July 26, 1990, [104 Stat. 338](/us/stat/104/338).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 101–336, title II, § 231](/us/pl/101/336/tII/s231), July 26, 1990, [104 Stat. 346](/us/stat/104/346), provided that: “(a) General Rule.—Except as provided in subsection (b), this part [part I (§§ 221–231) of subtitle B of title II of [Pub. L. 101–336](/us/pl/101/336), enacting this subpart] shall become effective 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act [July 26, 1990]. “(b) Exception.—Sections 222, 223 (other than subsection (a)), 224, 225, 227(b), 228(b), and 229 [sections 12142, 12143(b) to (f), 12144, 12145, 12147(b), 12148(b), and 12149 of this title] shall become effective on the date of enactment of this Act.”
