---
title: "§ 2282e. Post-authorization change reports"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2282e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2282e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1132](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1132), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1653](/us/stat/130/1653).)"
---
# § 2282e. Post-authorization change reports

##### § 2282e. Post-authorization change reports

(a) In general The completion of a post-authorization change report prepared by the Corps of Engineers for a water resources development project—

(1) may not be delayed as a result of consideration being given to changes in policy or priority with respect to project consideration; and

(2) shall be submitted, upon completion, to—

(A) the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

(b) Completion review With respect to a post-authorization change report subject to review by the Secretary, the Secretary shall, not later than 120 days after the date of completion of such report—

(1) review the report; and

(2) provide to Congress any recommendations of the Secretary regarding modification of the applicable water resources development project.

(c) Prior reports Not later than 120 days after December 16, 2016, with respect to any post-authorization change report that was completed prior to December 16, 2016, and is subject to a review by the Secretary that has yet to be completed, the Secretary shall complete review of, and provide recommendations to Congress with respect to, the report.

(d) Post-authorization change report inclusions In this section, the term “post-authorization change report” includes—

(1) a general reevaluation report;

(2) a limited reevaluation report; and

(3) any other report that recommends the modification of an authorized water resources development project.

*([Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1132](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1132), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1653](/us/stat/130/1653).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, and also as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, also known as the WIIN Act, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 1002 of Pub. L. 114–322](/us/pl/114/322/s1002), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
