---
title: "§ 1862n–10. Minority-serving institutions undergraduate program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1862n–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1862n–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–368, § 24](/us/pl/107/368/s24), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3066](/us/stat/116/3066).)"
---
# § 1862n–10. Minority-serving institutions undergraduate program

##### § 1862n–10. Minority-serving institutions undergraduate program

(a) In general The Director is authorized to establish a new program to award grants on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis to Hispanic-serving institutions, Alaska Native-serving institutions, Native Hawaiian-serving institutions, and other institutions of higher education serving a substantial number of minority students to enhance the quality of undergraduate science, mathematics, and engineering education at such institutions and to increase the retention and graduation rates of students pursuing associate’s or baccalaureate degrees in science, mathematics, engineering, or technology.

(b) Program components Grants awarded under this section shall support—

(1) activities to improve courses and curriculum in science, mathematics, and engineering;

(2) faculty development;

(3) stipends for undergraduate students participating in research; and

(4) other activities consistent with subsection (a), as determined by the Director.

(c) Program coordination This program shall be coordinated with and in addition to the ongoing Historically Black Colleges and Universities Undergraduate Program and the Tribal Colleges and Universities Program.

(d) Instrumentation Funding for instrumentation is an allowed use of grants awarded under this section and under the ongoing Historically Black Colleges and Universities Undergraduate Program and the Tribal Colleges and Universities Program.

*([Pub. L. 107–368, § 24](/us/pl/107/368/s24), Dec. 19, 2002, [116 Stat. 3066](/us/stat/116/3066).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2002, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 107–368](/us/pl/107/368/s4), set out as a note under [section 1862n of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1862n).
