---
title: "§ 383. Vested rights and State laws unaffected"
identifier: "USC-T43-S383"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section383"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1902, ch. 1093, § 8](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093/s8), [32 Stat. 390](/us/stat/32/390).)"
---
# § 383. Vested rights and State laws unaffected

##### § 383. Vested rights and State laws unaffected

Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting or intended to affect or to in any way interfere with the laws of any State or Territory relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of water used in irrigation, or any vested right acquired thereunder, and the Secretary of the Interior, in carrying out the provisions of this Act, shall proceed in conformity with such laws, and nothing herein shall in any way affect any right of any State or of the Federal Government or of any landowner, appropriator, or user of water in, to, or from any interstate stream or the waters thereof.

*([June 17, 1902, ch. 1093, § 8](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093/s8), [32 Stat. 390](/us/stat/32/390).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is act June 17, 1902, popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of section 8 (less proviso) of act June 17, 1902. The remainder of section 8 is classified to [section 372 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s372).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Section as Unaffected by Submerged Lands Act

Provisions of this section as not amended, modified or repealed by the Submerged Lands Act, see [section 1303 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1303).
