---
title: "§ 312502. Threat of irreparable loss or destruction of significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data by Federal construction projects"
identifier: "USC-T54-S312502"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section312502"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3254](/us/stat/128/3254).)"
---
# § 312502. Threat of irreparable loss or destruction of significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data by Federal construction projects

##### § 312502. Threat of irreparable loss or destruction of significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data by Federal construction projects

(a) Activity of Federal Agency.—

(1) Notification of secretary.— When any Federal agency finds, or is notified, in writing, by an appropriate historical or archeological authority, that its activities in connection with any Federal construction project or federally licensed project, activity, or program may cause irreparable loss or destruction of significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data, the agency shall notify the Secretary, in writing, and shall provide the Secretary with appropriate information concerning the project, program, or activity.

(2) Recovery, protection, and preservation of data.— The agency—

(A) may request the Secretary to undertake the recovery, protection, and preservation of the data (including preliminary survey, or other investigation as needed, and analysis and publication of the reports resulting from the investigation); or

(B) may, with funds appropriated for the project, program, or activity, undertake those activities.

(3) Availability of reports.— Copies of reports of any investigations made pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the Secretary, who shall make them available to the public for inspection and review.

(b) Activity of Private Person, Association, or Public Entity.—

(1) Recovery by secretary.— When any Federal agency provides financial assistance by loan, grant, or otherwise to any private person, association, or public entity, the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data might be irrevocably lost or destroyed, may, with funds appropriated expressly for this purpose—

(A) conduct, with the consent of all persons, associations, or public entities having a legal interest in the property, a survey of the affected site; and

(B) undertake the recovery, protection, and preservation of the data (including analysis and publication).

(2) Compensation.— The Secretary shall, unless otherwise agreed to in writing, compensate any person, association, or public entity damaged as a result of delays in construction or as a result of the temporary loss of the use of private or any nonfederally owned land.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3254](/us/stat/128/3254).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 312502 | 16 U.S.C. 469a–1. | Pub. L. 86–523, § 3, as added Pub. L. 93–291, § 1(3), May 24, 1974, 88 Stat. 174. |
