---
title: "§ 4123. New industries"
identifier: "USC-T18-S4123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section4123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 851](/us/stat/62/851).)"
---
# § 4123. New industries

##### § 4123. New industries

Any industry established under this chapter shall be so operated as not to curtail the production of any existing arsenal, navy yard, or other Government workshop.

Such forms of employment shall be provided as will give the inmates of all Federal penal and correctional institutions a maximum opportunity to acquire a knowledge and skill in trades and occupations which will provide them with a means of earning a livelihood upon release.

The industries may be either within the precincts of any penal or correctional institution or in any convenient locality where an existing property may be obtained by lease, purchase, or otherwise.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 851](/us/stat/62/851).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 744c ([May 27, 1930, ch. 340, § 3](/us/act/1930-05-27/ch340/s3), [46 Stat. 391](/us/stat/46/391)).

A part of said [section 744c of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s744c), U.S.C., 1940 ed., is incorporated in [section 4122 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s4122).

References to the Attorney General were omitted because [section 744k of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s744k), U.S.C., 1940 ed., as originally enacted, provided for the transfer to Federal Prison Industries of the powers and duties then vested in the Attorney General.

References to “this chapter” were substituted for “this section” since the general authority to establish and supervise prison industries is contained in this chapter.

Minor changes of phraseology were made.
