---
title: "§ 40742. Grants to States to implement DNA arrestee collection processes"
identifier: "USC-T34-S40742"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section40742"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–253, § 3](/us/pl/112/253/s3), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2408](/us/stat/126/2408).)"
---
# § 40742. Grants to States to implement DNA arrestee collection processes

##### § 40742. Grants to States to implement DNA arrestee collection processes

(a) In general The Attorney General shall, subject to amounts made available pursuant to [section 40744 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s40744), carry out a grant program for the purpose of assisting States with the costs associated with the implementation of DNA arrestee collection processes.

(b) Applications

(1) In general To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, in addition to any other requirements specified by the Attorney General, a State shall submit to the Attorney General an application that demonstrates that it has statutory authorization for the implementation of a DNA arrestee collection process.

(2) Non-supplanting funds An application submitted under paragraph (1) by a State shall include assurances that the amounts received under the grant under this section shall be used to supplement, not supplant, State funds that would otherwise be available for the purpose described in subsection (a).

(3) Other requirements The Attorney General shall require a State seeking a grant under this section to document how such State will use the grant to meet expenses associated with a State’s implementation or planned implementation of a DNA arrestee collection process.

(c) Grant allocation

(1) In general The amount available to a State under this section shall be based on the projected costs that will be incurred by the State to implement a DNA arrestee collection process. Subject to paragraph (2), the Attorney General shall retain discretion to determine the amount of each such grant awarded to an eligible State.

(2) Maximum grant allocation In the case of a State seeking a grant under this section with respect to the implementation of a DNA arrestee collection process, such State shall be eligible for a grant under this section that is equal to no more than 100 percent of the first year costs to the State of implementing such process.

(d) Grant conditions As a condition of receiving a grant under this section, a State shall have a procedure in place to—

(1) provide written notification of expungement provisions and instructions for requesting expungement to all persons who submit a DNA profile or DNA data for inclusion in the index;

(2) provide the eligibility criteria for expungement and instructions for requesting expungement on an appropriate public Web site; and

(3) make a determination on all expungement requests not later than 90 days after receipt and provide a written response of the determination to the requesting party.

*([Pub. L. 112–253, § 3](/us/pl/112/253/s3), Jan. 10, 2013, [126 Stat. 2408](/us/stat/126/2408).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14137a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14137a), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
