---
title: "§ 2542. Establishment and operation of technical offices"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2542"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2542"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–39, title IV, § 412](/us/pl/96/39/tIV/s412), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 244](/us/stat/93/244).)"
---
# § 2542. Establishment and operation of technical offices

##### § 2542. Establishment and operation of technical offices

(a) Establishment

(1) For nonagricultural products The Secretary of Commerce shall establish and maintain within the Department of Commerce a technical office that shall carry out the functions prescribed under subsection (b) with respect to nonagricultural products.

(2) For agricultural products The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish and maintain within the Department of Agriculture a technical office that shall carry out the functions prescribed under subsection (b) with respect to agricultural products.

(b) Functions of offices The President shall prescribe for each technical office established under subsection (a) such functions as the President deems necessary or appropriate to implement this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 96–39, title IV, § 412](/us/pl/96/39/tIV/s412), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 244](/us/stat/93/244).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under subsec. (b) of this section delegated to Secretary of Commerce regarding technical office established under subsec. (a)(1) of this section, and to Secretary of Agriculture regarding technical office established under subsec. (a)(2) of this section, see section 1–103(a) of Ex. Ord. No. 12188, Jan. 2, 1980, 45 F.R. 990, set out as a note under [section 2171 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2171).
