---
title: "§ 663. Solicitation or use of gifts"
identifier: "USC-T18-S663"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section663"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 731](/us/stat/62/731); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(K)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/K), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 663. Solicitation or use of gifts

##### § 663. Solicitation or use of gifts

Whoever solicits any gift of money or other property, and represents that such gift is being solicited for the use of the United States, with the intention of embezzling, stealing, or purloining such gift, or converting the same to any other use or purpose, or whoever, having come into possession of any money or property which has been donated by the owner thereof for the use of the United States, embezzles, steals or purloins such money or property, or converts the same to any other use or purpose, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 731](/us/stat/62/731); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(K)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/K), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on [section 641e of title 50](/us/usc/t50/s641e), App. U.S.C., 1940 ed., War and National Defense (Mar. 27, 1942, 3 p. m., E. W. T., c. 199, Title XI, § 1106, [56 Stat. 184](/us/stat/56/184)).

This section was taken from the Second War Powers Act of 1942, which was temporary legislation. However, the subject matter was so independent of the war effort as to warrant its inclusion in this title as a permanent provision.

Words “shall be guilty of a felony” were omitted. See Reviser’s Note under [section 550 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s550).

Words “and upon conviction thereof” were omitted as unnecessary since punishment cannot be imposed until a conviction is secured.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $5,000”.
