---
title: "§ 5344. Payments and reimbursements for certain House staff expenses"
identifier: "USC-T2-S5344"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section5344"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–59, title II, § 201](/us/pl/94/59/tII/s201), July 25, 1975, [89 Stat. 282](/us/stat/89/282); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 203(15)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s203/15), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1727](/us/stat/110/1727).)"
---
# § 5344. Payments and reimbursements for certain House staff expenses

##### § 5344. Payments and reimbursements for certain House staff expenses

(a) Payments and reimbursements to staff persons under [section 5343 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s5343) shall be made as provided (with respect to staff) in the regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Oversight with respect to travel and other expenses of staff. Reimbursements shall be paid on special voucher forms prescribed by the Committee on House Oversight.

(b) Additional funds, if any, for staff allowances and office space for use by Members-elect (other than an incumbent Member reelected to the ensuing Congress) shall be authorized by the Committee on House Oversight.

*([Pub. L. 94–59, title II, § 201](/us/pl/94/59/tII/s201), July 25, 1975, [89 Stat. 282](/us/stat/89/282); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 203(15)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s203/15), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1727](/us/stat/110/1727).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 43b–3 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s43b–3) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is based on section 2 of House Resolution No. 10, Ninety-fourth Congress, Jan. 14, 1975, which was enacted into permanent law by [Pub. L. 94–59](/us/pl/94/59).

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) substituted “House Oversight” for “House Administration” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.
