---
title: "§ 17034. Cellulosic ethanol and biofuels research"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17034"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17034"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 230](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s230), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/121/1536).)"
---
# § 17034. Cellulosic ethanol and biofuels research

##### § 17034. Cellulosic ethanol and biofuels research

(a) Definition of eligible entity In this section, the term “eligible entity” means—

(1) an 1890 Institution (as defined in [section 7601 of title 7](/us/usc/t7/s7601));

(2) a part B institution (as defined in [section 1061 of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1061)) (commonly referred to as “Historically Black Colleges and Universities”);

(3) a tribal college or university (as defined in [section 1059c(b) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1059c/b)); or

(4) a Hispanic-serving institution (as defined in [section 1101a(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1101a/a)).

(b) Grants The Secretary shall make cellulosic ethanol and biofuels research and development grants to 10 eligible entities selected by the Secretary to receive a grant under this section through a peer-reviewed competitive process.

(c) Collaboration An eligible entity that is selected to receive a grant under subsection (b) shall collaborate with 1 of the Bioenergy Research Centers of the Office of Science of the Department.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to make grants described in subsection (b) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2008, to remain available until expended.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 230](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s230), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/121/1536).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
