---
title: "§ 1150b. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1150b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1150b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 623, § 3](/us/act/1944-12-20/ch623/s3), [58 Stat. 837](/us/stat/58/837).)"
---
# § 1150b. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 1150b. Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such amount as may be necessary to enable the Secretary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, and the current and subsequent appropriations to enable the Secretary to administer the respective Acts of Congress or programs to which the aforesaid payments or loans or extensions of credit relate shall also be available for the administrative expenses of carrying out this chapter.

*([Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 623, § 3](/us/act/1944-12-20/ch623/s3), [58 Stat. 837](/us/stat/58/837).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers, agencies, and employees of Department of Agriculture transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of Agriculture by Reorg. Plan. No. 2 of 1953, § 1, eff. June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Exceptions From Transfer of Functions

Functions of Corporations of Department of Agriculture, boards of directors and officers of such corporations, Advisory Board of Commodity Credit Corporation, and Farm Credit Administration or any agency, officer, or entity of, under, or subject to supervision of said Administration excepted from functions of officers, agencies, and employees transferred to Secretary of Agriculture by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1953, § 1, effective June 4, 1953, 18 F.R. 3219, [67 Stat. 633](/us/stat/67/633), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
