---
title: "§ 1219. Public information"
identifier: "USC-T5-S1219"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section1219"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–12, § 3(a)(13)](/us/pl/101/12/s3/a/13), Apr. 10, 1989, [103 Stat. 29](/us/stat/103/29); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1097(h)(2)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1097/h/2), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1624](/us/stat/131/1624).)"
---
# § 1219. Public information

##### § 1219. Public information

(a) The Special Counsel shall maintain and make available to the public—

(1) a list of any noncriminal matters referred to the head of an agency under section 1213(c), together with—

(A) a copy of the information transmitted to the head of the agency under section 1213(c)(1);

(B) any report from the agency under section 1213(c)(1)(B) relating to the matter;

(C) if appropriate, not otherwise prohibited by law, and consented to by the complainant, any comments from the complainant under section 1213(e)(1) relating to the matter; and

(D) the comments or recommendations of the Special Counsel under paragraph (3) or (4) of section 1213(e);

(2) a list of matters referred to heads of agencies under section 1215(c)(2);

(3) a list of matters referred to heads of agencies under subsection (e) of section 1214, together with certifications from heads of agencies under such subsection; and

(4) reports from heads of agencies under section 1213(g)(1).

(b) The Special Counsel shall take steps to ensure that any list or report made available to the public under this section does not contain any information the disclosure of which is prohibited by law or by Executive order requiring that information be kept secret in the interest of national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–12, § 3(a)(13)](/us/pl/101/12/s3/a/13), Apr. 10, 1989, [103 Stat. 29](/us/stat/103/29); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, § 1097(h)(2)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX/s1097/h/2), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1624](/us/stat/131/1624).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “a list of noncriminal matters referred to heads of agencies under subsection (c) of section 1213, together with reports from heads of agencies under subsection (c)(1)(B) of such section relating to such matters;”.
