---
title: "§ 1862r. Research in disabilities education"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1862r"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1862r"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–124, § 3](/us/pl/114/124/s3), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 120](/us/stat/130/120).)"
---
# § 1862r. Research in disabilities education

##### § 1862r. Research in disabilities education

(a) Program Nothing in this section and [section 1862r–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1862r–1) alters the National Science Foundation’s Research in Disabilities Education program for fundamental and implementation research about learners (of all ages) with disabilities, including dyslexia, in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). The National Science Foundation shall continue to encourage efforts to understand and address disability-based differences in STEM education and workforce participation, including differences for dyslexic learners.

(b) Line item The Director of the National Science Foundation shall include the amount requested for the Research in Disabilities Education program in the Foundation’s annual congressional budget justification.

*([Pub. L. 114–124, § 3](/us/pl/114/124/s3), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 120](/us/stat/130/120).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Research Excellence and Advancements for Dyslexia Act or READ Act, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Findings

[Pub. L. 114–124, § 2](/us/pl/114/124/s2), Feb. 18, 2016, [130 Stat. 120](/us/stat/130/120), provided that: “The Congress finds the following: “(1) As many as 1 out of 6, or 8,500,000, American school children may have dyslexia. “(2) Since 1975, dyslexia has been included in the list of qualifying learning disabilities under the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975 [see Short Title of 1975 Amendment note set out under [section 1400 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1400), Education] and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [[20 U.S.C. 1400](/us/usc/t20/s1400) et seq.].”
