---
title: "§ 7303. Funding of the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–567, title III, § 323](/us/pl/106/567/tIII/s323), as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title V, § 501(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/259/tV/s501/a/1), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2738](/us/stat/124/2738).)"
---
# § 7303. Funding of the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service

##### § 7303. Funding of the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service

(a) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the operations, maintenance, development, enhancement, modernization, and investment costs of the DTS Network and the DTS–PO. Funds appropriated for allocation to the DTS–PO shall remain available to the DTS–PO for a period of two fiscal years.

(b) Fees The DTS–PO shall charge a department or agency that uses the DTS Network for only those bandwidth costs attributable to such department or agency and for specific projects carried out at the request of such department or agency, pursuant to the pricing methodology for such bandwidth costs and such projects approved under [section 7302(e)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7302/e/1), for which amounts have not been appropriated for allocation to the DTS–PO. The DTS–PO is authorized to directly receive payments from departments or agencies that use the DTS Network and to invoice such departments or agencies for the fees under this section either in advance of, or upon or after, providing the bandwidth or performing such projects. Such funds received from such departments or agencies shall remain available to the DTS–PO for a period of two fiscal years.

*([Pub. L. 106–567, title III, § 323](/us/pl/106/567/tIII/s323), as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title V, § 501(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/259/tV/s501/a/1), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2738](/us/stat/124/2738).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7303, [Pub. L. 106–567, title III, § 323](/us/pl/106/567/tIII/s323), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2845](/us/stat/114/2845), which related to Diplomatic Telecommunications Service Oversight Board, was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–259, title V, § 501(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/259/tV/s501/a/1), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2735](/us/stat/124/2735). See [section 7302 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7302).
