---
title: "§ 4274. Organization of Commission"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4274"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4274"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–380, § 4](/us/pl/86/380/s4), Sept. 24, 1959, [73 Stat. 705](/us/stat/73/705).)"
---
# § 4274. Organization of Commission

##### § 4274. Organization of Commission

(a) Initial meeting The President shall convene the Commission within ninety days following September 24, 1959 at such time and place as he may designate for the Commission’s initial meeting.

(b) Chairman and Vice Chairman The President shall designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among members of the Commission.

(c) Vacancies in membership Any vacancy in the membership of the Commission shall be filed in the same manner in which the original appointment was made; except that where the number of vacancies is fewer than the number of members specified in paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7) of [section 4273(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4273/a), each panel of names submitted in accordance with the aforementioned paragraphs shall contain at least two names for each vacancy.

(d) Termination of service in official position from which originally appointed Where any member ceases to serve in the official position from which originally appointed under [section 4273(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4273/a), his place on the Commission shall be deemed to be vacant.

(e) Quorum Thirteen members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but two or more members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting hearings.

*([Pub. L. 86–380, § 4](/us/pl/86/380/s4), Sept. 24, 1959, [73 Stat. 705](/us/stat/73/705).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 2374 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2374) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).
