---
title: "§ 1811. Powers and duties"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1811"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1811"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Aug. 15, 1876, ch. 287](/us/act/1876-08-15/ch287), [19 Stat. 147](/us/stat/19/147); [Feb. 14, 1902, ch. 17](/us/act/1902-02-14/ch17), [32 Stat. 20](/us/stat/32/20); [Mar. 3, 1921, ch. 124](/us/act/1921-03-03/ch124), [41 Stat. 1291](/us/stat/41/1291); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. E, title LVII, § 5702(d)(2)](/us/pl/118/31/dE/tLVII/s5702/d/2), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 961](/us/stat/137/961).)"
---
# § 1811. Powers and duties

##### § 1811. Powers and duties

The Architect of the Capitol shall perform all the duties relative to the Capitol Building performed prior to August 15, 1876, by the Commissioner of Public Buildings and Grounds: *Provided*, That no change in the architectural features of the Capitol Building or in the landscape features of the Capitol Grounds shall be made except on plans to be approved by Congress.

*([Aug. 15, 1876, ch. 287](/us/act/1876-08-15/ch287), [19 Stat. 147](/us/stat/19/147); [Feb. 14, 1902, ch. 17](/us/act/1902-02-14/ch17), [32 Stat. 20](/us/stat/32/20); [Mar. 3, 1921, ch. 124](/us/act/1921-03-03/ch124), [41 Stat. 1291](/us/stat/41/1291); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. E, title LVII, § 5702(d)(2)](/us/pl/118/31/dE/tLVII/s5702/d/2), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 961](/us/stat/137/961).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was classified to section 162 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217, § 1](/us/pl/107/217/s1), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062).

Section is a composite of the acts of Aug. 15, 1876, and Feb. 14, 1902, cited in the credits.

#### Amendments

2023—[Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) struck out “, and he shall be appointed by the President” after “Commissioner of Public Buildings and Grounds”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Change of name of Architect of the Capitol, functions abolished, transferred, etc., by prior acts, see Prior Provisions and Change of Name notes set out under former [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1801).

#### Effective Date of 2023 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) applicable with respect to appointments made on or after Dec. 22, 2023, see [section 1801a(e) of this title](/us/usc/t2/s1801a/e).

#### Transfer to Architect of the Capitol

[Pub. L. 112–74, div. G, title I, § 1202](/us/pl/112/74/dG/tI/s1202), Dec. 23, 2011, [125 Stat. 1129](/us/stat/125/1129), provided that: “(a) Transfer.—To the extent that the Director of the National Park Service has jurisdiction and control over any portion of the area described in subsection (b) and any monument or other facility which is located within such area, such jurisdiction and control is hereby transferred to the Architect of the Capitol as of the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2011]. “(b) Area Described.—The area described in this subsection is the property which is bounded on the north by Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest, on the east by First Street Northwest and First Street Southwest, on the south by Maryland Avenue Southwest, and on the west by Third Street Southwest and Third Street Northwest.”

#### Acquisition of Property by Architect of the Capitol

[Pub. L. 107–68, title I, § 128](/us/pl/107/68/tI/s128), Nov. 12, 2001, [115 Stat. 579](/us/stat/115/579), provided that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Architect of the Capitol is authorized to secure, through multi-year rental, lease, or other appropriate agreement, the property located at 67 K Street, S.W., Washington, D.C., for use of Legislative Branch agencies, and to incur any necessary incidental expenses including maintenance, alterations, and repairs in connection therewith: *Provided*, That in connection with the property referred to under the preceding proviso, the Architect of the Capitol is authorized to expend funds appropriated to the Architect of the Capitol for the purpose of the operations and support of Legislative Branch agencies, including the United States Capitol Police, as may be required for that purpose.”
