---
title: "§ 7404A. Awards"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7404A"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7404A"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–168, title IX, § 906(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/168/tIX/s906/b/1), Aug. 10, 2022, [136 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/136/1812).)"
---
# § 7404A. Awards

##### § 7404A. Awards

(a) Superior Accomplishments and Performance Awards Program.— The Secretary may establish an awards program for personnel listed in [section 7421(b) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7421/b) consistent with chapter 45 of title 5, to the extent practicable.

(b) Executive Performance Awards Program.— Notwithstanding [section 7425 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7425) or any other provision of law, the Secretary may establish a performance awards program consistent with [section 5384 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5384) for—

(1) personnel appointed under [section 7401(1) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7401/1) for a position that the Secretary has determined is of equivalent rank to a Senior Executive Service position (as such term is defined in [section 3132(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3132/a)) and is subject to an agency performance management system; and

(2) personnel appointed under section 7306 or 7401(4) of this title.

(c) Payment of Awards.— Awards under this section may be paid based on criteria established by the Secretary and shall not be considered in calculating the limitation under [section 7431(e)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7431/e/4).

(d) Not Considered Basic Pay.— Awards under this section shall not be considered basic pay for any purpose.

(e) Regulations.— The Secretary may prescribe regulations for the administration of this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–168, title IX, § 906(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/168/tIX/s906/b/1), Aug. 10, 2022, [136 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/136/1812).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Limitation on Past Awards

[Pub. L. 117–168, title IX, § 906(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/168/tIX/s906/b/2), Aug. 10, 2022, [136 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/136/1812), provided that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, awards made by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for any period on or after January 1, 2017, and before the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 10, 2022] for an employee under section 7306 or 7401(4) of title 38, United States Code, or for a position described in section 7401(1) of such title that the Secretary has determined is of equivalent rank to a Senior Executive Service position (as such term is defined in [section 3132(a) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3132/a), United States Code), may be subject to [section 7404A of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s7404A), United States Code, as added by paragraph (1).”
