---
title: "§ 2662. Return requirements"
identifier: "USC-T26-S2662"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section2662"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 99–514, title XIV, § 1431(a)](/us/pl/99/514/tXIV/s1431/a), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2728](/us/stat/100/2728).)"
---
# § 2662. Return requirements

##### § 2662. Return requirements

(a) In general The Secretary shall prescribe by regulations the person who is required to make the return with respect to the tax imposed by this chapter and the time by which any such return must be filed. To the extent practicable, such regulations shall provide that—

(1) the person who is required to make such return shall be the person liable under section 2603(a) for payment of such tax, and

(2) the return shall be filed—

(A) in the case of a direct skip (other than from a trust), on or before the date on which an estate or gift tax return is required to be filed with respect to the transfer, and

(B) in all other cases, on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of the taxable year of the person required to make such return in which such transfer occurs.

(b) Information returns The Secretary may by regulations require a return to be filed containing such information as he determines to be necessary for purposes of this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 99–514, title XIV, § 1431(a)](/us/pl/99/514/tXIV/s1431/a), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2728](/us/stat/100/2728).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to generation-skipping transfers (within the meaning of [section 2611 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2611)) made after Oct. 22, 1986, except as otherwise provided, see [section 1433 of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s1433), set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2601).

#### Extension of Time for Filing Return

[Pub. L. 111–312, title III, § 301(d)(2)](/us/pl/111/312/tIII/s301/d/2), Dec. 17, 2010, [124 Stat. 3300](/us/stat/124/3300), provided that: “In the case of any generation-skipping transfer made after December 31, 2009, and before the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 17, 2010], the due date for filing any return under section 2662 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (including any election required to be made on such a return) shall not be earlier than the date which is 9 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.”
