---
title: "§ 47145. Pilot program for airport accessibility"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47145"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47145"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 725(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s725/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/138/1267).)"
---
# § 47145. Pilot program for airport accessibility

##### § 47145. Pilot program for airport accessibility

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation shall establish and carry out a pilot program to award grants to sponsors to carry out capital projects to upgrade the accessibility of commercial service airports for individuals with disabilities by increasing the number of commercial service airports, airport terminals, or airport facilities that meet or exceed the standards and regulations under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 ([42 U.S.C. 12131](/us/usc/t42/s12131) et seq.) 11 See References in Text note below. and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ([29 U.S.C. 701](/us/usc/t29/s701) note) 1.

(b) Use of Funds.—

(1) In general.— Subject to paragraph (2), a sponsor shall use a grant awarded under this section—

(A) for a project to repair, improve, or relocate the infrastructure of an airport, airport terminal, or airport facility to increase accessibility for individuals with disabilities, or as part of a plan to increase accessibility for individuals with disabilities;

(B) to develop or modify a plan (as described in subsection (e)) for a project that increases accessibility for individuals with disabilities, including—

(i) assessments of accessibility or assessments of planned modifications to an airport, airport terminal, or airport facility for passenger use, performed by the disability advisory committee of the recipient airport (if applicable), the protection and advocacy system for individuals with disabilities in the applicable State, a center for independent living, or a disability organization, including an advocacy or nonprofit organization that represents or provides services to individuals with disabilities; or

(ii) coordination by the disability advisory committee of the recipient airport with a protection and advocacy system, center for independent living, or such disability organization; or

(C) to carry out any other project that meets or exceeds the standards and regulations described in subsection (a).

(2) Limitation.— Eligible costs for a project funded with a grant awarded under this section shall be limited to the costs associated with carrying out the purpose authorized under subsection (a).

(c) Eligibility.— A sponsor may use a grant under this section to upgrade a commercial service airport that is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities—

(1) consistent with the current (as of the date of the upgrade) standards and regulations described in subsection (a); and

(2) even if the related service, program, or activity, when viewed in the entirely of the service, program, or activity, is readily accessible and usable as so described.

(d) Selection Criteria.— In making grants to sponsors under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to sponsors that are proposing—

(1) a capital project to upgrade the accessibility of a commercial service airport that is not accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities consistent with standards and regulations described in subsection (a); or

(2) to meet or exceed the Airports Council International accreditation under the Accessibility Enhancement Accreditation, through the incorporation of universal design principles.

(e) Accessibility Commitment.— A sponsor that receives a grant under this section shall adopt a plan under which the sponsor commits to pursuing airport accessibility projects that—

(1) enhance the passenger experience and maximize accessibility of commercial service airports, airport terminals, or airport facilities for individuals with disabilities, including by—

(A) upgrading bathrooms, counters, or pumping rooms;

(B) increasing audio and visual accessibility on information boards, security gates, or paging systems;

(C) updating airport terminals to increase the availability of accessible seating and power outlets for durable medical equipment (such as powered wheelchairs);

(D) updating airport websites and other information communication technology to be accessible for individuals with disabilities; or

(E) increasing the number of elevators, including elevators that move power wheelchairs to an aircraft;

(2) improve the operations of, provide efficiencies of service to, and enhance the use of commercial service airports for individuals with disabilities;

(3) establish a disability advisory committee if the airport is a small, medium, or large hub airport; and

(4) make improvements in personnel, infrastructure, and technology that can assist passenger self-identification regarding disability and needing assistance.

(f) Coordination With Disability Advocacy Entities.— In administering grants under this section, the Secretary shall encourage—

(1) engagement with disability advocacy entities (such as the disability advisory committee of the sponsor) and a protection and advocacy system for individuals with disabilities in the applicable State, a center for independent living, or a disability organization, including an advocacy or nonprofit organization that represents or provides services to individuals with disabilities; and

(2) assessments of accessibility or assessments of planned modifications to commercial service airports to the extent merited by the scope of the capital project of the sponsor proposed to be assisted under this section, taking into account any such assessment already conducted by the Federal Aviation Administration.

(g) Federal Share of Costs.— The Government’s share of allowable project costs for a project carried out with a grant under this section shall be the Government’s share of allowable project costs specified under section 47109.

(h) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Center for independent living.— The term “center for independent living” has the meaning given such term in section 702 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ([29 U.S.C. 796a](/us/usc/t29/s796a)).

(2) Disability advisory committee.— The term “disability advisory committee” means a body of stakeholders (including airport staff, airline representatives, and individuals with disabilities) that provide to airports and appropriate transportation authorities input from individuals with disabilities, including identifying opportunities for removing barriers, expanding accessibility features, and improving accessibility for individuals with disabilities at airports.

(3) Protection and advocacy system.— The term “protection and advocacy system” means a system established in accordance with section 143 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 ([42 U.S.C. 15043](/us/usc/t42/s15043)).

(i) Funding.— Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2028, the Secretary may use up to $20,000,000 of the amounts that would otherwise be used to make grants from the discretionary fund under section 47115 for each such fiscal year to carry out this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title VII, § 725(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tVII/s725/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1267](/us/stat/138/1267).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 ([42 U.S.C. 12131](/us/usc/t42/s12131) et seq.), referred to in subsec. (a), probably means title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, [Pub. L. 101–336](/us/pl/101/336), July 26, 1990, [104 Stat. 337](/us/stat/104/337), which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 12131 et seq.) of chapter 126 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 12101 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s12101) and Tables.

The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 93–112](/us/pl/93/112), Sept. 26, 1973, [87 Stat. 355](/us/stat/87/355), which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§ 701 et seq.) of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 701 of Title 29](/us/usc/t29/s701) and Tables.
