---
title: "§ 5613. Additional related matters"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5613"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5613"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/111/203/tXI/s1106), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2125](/us/stat/124/2125).)"
---
# § 5613. Additional related matters

##### § 5613. Additional related matters

(a) Suspension of parallel Federal Deposit Insurance Act authority Effective upon July 21, 2010, the Corporation may not exercise its authority under [section 1823(c)(4)(G)(i) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1823/c/4/G/i) to establish any widely available debt guarantee program for which [section 5612 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5612) would provide authority.

(b) Omitted

(c) Effect of default on an FDIC guarantee If an insured depository institution or depository institution holding company (as those terms are defined in [section 1813 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1813)) participating in a program under [section 5612 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5612), or any participant in a debt guarantee program established pursuant to [section 1823(c)(4)(G)(i) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1823/c/4/G/i) defaults on any obligation guaranteed by the Corporation after July 21, 2010, the Corporation shall—

(1) appoint itself as receiver for the insured depository institution that defaults; and

(2) with respect to any other participating company that is not an insured depository institution that defaults—

(A) require—

(i) consideration of whether a determination shall be made, as provided in [section 5383 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5383) to resolve the company under [section 5382 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5382); and

(ii) the company to file a petition for bankruptcy under [section 301 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s301) if the Corporation is not appointed receiver pursuant to [section 5382 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5382) within 30 days of the date of default; or

(B) file a petition for involuntary bankruptcy on behalf of the company under [section 303 of title 11](/us/usc/t11/s303).

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title XI, § 1106](/us/pl/111/203/tXI/s1106), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2125](/us/stat/124/2125).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 1106 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1106). Subsec. (b) of [section 1106 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1106) amended [section 1823 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1823).
