---
title: "§ 454. Travel and transportation: pilot programs"
identifier: "USC-T37-S454"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section454"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, § 631(b)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tVI/s631/b), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1458](/us/stat/125/1458).)"
---
# § 454. Travel and transportation: pilot programs

##### § 454. Travel and transportation: pilot programs

(a) Pilot Programs.— Except as otherwise prohibited by law, the Secretary of Defense may conduct pilot programs to evaluate alternative travel and transportation programs, policies, and processes for Department of Defense authorized travelers. Any such pilot program shall be designed to enhance cost savings or other efficiencies that accrue to the Government and be conducted so as to evaluate one or more of the following:

(1) Alternative methods for performing and reimbursing travel.

(2) Means for limiting the need for travel.

(3) Means for reducing the environmental impact of travel.

(b) Limitations.—

(1) Not more than three pilot programs may be carried out under subsection (a) at any one time.

(2) The duration of a pilot program may not exceed four years.

(3) The authority to carry out a pilot program is subject to the availability of appropriated funds.

(c) Reports.—

(1) Not later than 30 days before the commencement of a pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program. The report on a pilot program under this paragraph shall set forth a description of the pilot program, including the following:

(A) The purpose of the pilot program.

(B) The duration of the pilot program.

(C) The cost savings or other efficiencies anticipated to accrue to the Government under the pilot program.

(2) Not later than 60 days after the completion of a pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program. The report on a pilot program under this paragraph shall set forth the following:

(A) A description of results of the pilot program.

(B) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot program.

(d) Congressional Defense Committees Defined.— In this section, the term “congressional defense committees” has the meaning given that term in [section 101(a)(16) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101/a/16).

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, § 631(b)](/us/pl/112/81/dA/tVI/s631/b), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1458](/us/stat/125/1458).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Pilot Program To Reimburse Members of the Armed Forces for Certain Child Care Costs Incident to a Permanent Change of Station or Assignment

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title VI, § 627](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tVI/s627), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2630](/us/stat/136/2630), provided that: “(a) Establishment.—The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to reimburse members of the Armed Forces for certain child care costs incident to a permanent change of station or assignment. “(b) Travel and Transportation Allowances.—Under the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall treat a designated child care provider as an authorized traveler if child care is not available to a member of the Armed Forces at a military child development center at the permanent duty location of such member not later than 30 days after the member arrives at such location. “(c) Reimbursement of Certain Child Care Costs.—“(1) Authority.—Under the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense may reimburse a member of the Armed Forces for travel expenses for a designated child care provider when—“(A) the member is reassigned, either as a permanent change of station or permanent change of assignment, to a new duty station; “(B) the movement of the member’s dependents is authorized at the expense of the United States under [section 451 of title 37](/us/usc/t37/s451), United States Code, as part of the reassignment; “(C) child care is not available at a military child development center at such duty station not later than 30 days after the member arrives at such duty station; and “(D) the dependent child is on the wait list for child care at such military child development center. “(2) Maximum amounts.—Reimbursement provided to a member under this subsection may not exceed—“(A) $500 for a reassignment between duty stations within the continental United States; and “(B) $1,500 for a reassignment involving a duty station outside of the continental United States. “(3) Deadline.—A member may not apply for reimbursement under this subsection later than one year after a reassignment described in paragraph (1). “(4) Concurrent receipt prohibited.—In the event a household contains more than one member eligible for reimbursement under this subsection, reimbursement may be paid to one member among such members as such members shall jointly elect. “(d) Report.—Not later than January 1, 2027, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the pilot program, including the recommendation of the Secretary whether to make the pilot program permanent. “(e) Termination.—The pilot program shall terminate on September 30, 2028. “(f) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) The term ‘authorized traveler’ has the meaning given such term in [section 451 of title 37](/us/usc/t37/s451), United States Code. “(2) The term ‘designated child care provider’ means an adult selected by a member of the armed forces to provide child care to a dependent child of such member. “(3) The term ‘military child development center’ has the meaning given such term in [section 1800 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1800), United States Code.”
