---
title: "§ 30102. Working capital fund"
identifier: "USC-T51-S30102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section30102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3357](/us/stat/124/3357); [Pub. L. 113–6, div. B, title III](/us/pl/113/6/dB/tIII), Mar. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 264](/us/stat/127/264); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. B, title III](/us/pl/117/328/dB/tIII), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4549](/us/stat/136/4549).)"
---
# § 30102. Working capital fund

##### § 30102. Working capital fund

(a) Establishment.— There is hereby established in the United States Treasury an Administration working capital fund.

(b) Availability of Amounts.—

(1) In general.— Amounts in the fund are available for financing activities, services, equipment, information, and facilities as authorized by law to be provided—

(A) within the Administration;

(B) to other agencies or instrumentalities of the United States;

(C) to any State, territory, or possession or political subdivision thereof;

(D) to other public or private agencies; or

(E) to any person, firm, association, corporation, or educational institution on a reimbursable basis.

(2) Capital repairs.— The fund shall also be available for the purpose of funding capital repairs, renovations, rehabilitation, sustainment, demolition, or replacement of Administration real property, on a reimbursable basis within the Administration.

(3) Information technology (it) modernization.— The fund shall also be available for the purpose of funding IT Modernization activities, as described in section 1077(b)(3)(A)–(E) of [Public Law 115–91](/us/pl/115/91), on a non-reimbursable basis.

(4) No fiscal year limitation.— Amounts in the fund are available without regard to fiscal year limitation.

(c) Contents.— The capital of the fund consists of—

(1) amounts appropriated to the fund;

(2) the reasonable value of stocks of supplies, equipment, and other assets and inventories on order that the Administrator transfers to the fund, less the related liabilities and unpaid obligations;

(3) payments received for loss or damage to property of the fund; and

(4) refunds or rebates received on an on-going basis from a credit card services provider under the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s credit card programs.

(d) Reimbursement.— The fund shall be reimbursed, in advance, for supplies and services at rates that will approximate the expenses of operation, such as the accrual of annual leave, depreciation of plant, property, and equipment, and overhead.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3357](/us/stat/124/3357); [Pub. L. 113–6, div. B, title III](/us/pl/113/6/dB/tIII), Mar. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 264](/us/stat/127/264); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. B, title III](/us/pl/117/328/dB/tIII), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 4549](/us/stat/136/4549).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30102 | 42 U.S.C. 2459i. | Pub. L. 108–7, div. K, title III, (last par. under heading “Administrative Provisions”, at 117 Stat. 520), Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 520. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1077(b)(3)(A)–(E) of [Public Law 115–91](/us/pl/115/91), referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is section 1077(b)(3)(A)–(E) of [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tX), subtitle G, Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1587](/us/stat/131/1587), which is set out in a note under [section 11301 of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s11301), Public Buildings, Property, and Works.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (b)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) added par. (3) and redesignated former par. (3) as (4).

2013—Subsec. (c)(4). [Pub. L. 113–6](/us/pl/113/6) added par. (4).
