---
title: "§ 80507. Employee protection"
identifier: "USC-T46-S80507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section80507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–304, § 11](/us/pl/109/304/s11), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1697](/us/stat/120/1697).)"
---
# § 80507. Employee protection

##### § 80507. Employee protection

(a) Prohibition.— A person may not discharge or discriminate against an employee because the employee has reported the existence of an unsafe container or a violation of this chapter or a regulation prescribed under this chapter.

(b) Complaints.— An employee alleging to have been discharged or discriminated against in violation of subsection (a) may file a complaint with the Secretary of Labor. The complaint must be filed within 60 days after the violation.

(c) Enforcement.— The Secretary of Labor may investigate the complaint. If the Secretary of Labor finds there has been a violation, the Secretary of Labor may bring a civil action in an appropriate district court of the United States. The court has jurisdiction to restrain violations of subsection (a) and order appropriate relief, including reinstatement of the employee to the employee’s former position with back pay.

(d) Notice to Complainant.— Within 30 days after receiving a complaint under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall notify the complainant of the intended action on the complaint.

*([Pub. L. 109–304, § 11](/us/pl/109/304/s11), Oct. 6, 2006, [120 Stat. 1697](/us/stat/120/1697).)*

In subsection (a), the words “in any manner” and “to the Secretary or his agents” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “or a regulation prescribed under this chapter” are added for consistency.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 80507 | 46 App.:1506. | Pub. L. 95–208, § 7, Dec. 13, 1977, 91 Stat. 1479. |
