---
title: "§ 2159. Authority to apply for injunctions"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2159"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2159"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–544, § 29](/us/pl/89/544/s29), as added [Pub. L. 101–624, title XXV, § 2503(2)](/us/pl/101/624/tXXV/s2503/2), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4067](/us/stat/104/4067).)"
---
# § 2159. Authority to apply for injunctions

##### § 2159. Authority to apply for injunctions

(a) Request Whenever the Secretary has reason to believe that any dealer, carrier, exhibitor, or intermediate handler is dealing in stolen animals, or is placing the health of any animal in serious danger in violation of this chapter or the regulations or standards promulgated thereunder, the Secretary shall notify the Attorney General, who may apply to the United States district court in which such dealer, carrier, exhibitor, or intermediate handler resides or conducts business for a temporary restraining order or injunction to prevent any such person from operating in violation of this chapter or the regulations and standards prescribed under this chapter.

(b) Issuance The court shall, upon a proper showing, issue a temporary restraining order or injunction under subsection (a) without bond. Such injunction or order shall remain in effect until a complaint pursuant to [section 2149 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2149) is issued and dismissed by the Secretary or until an order to cease and desist made thereon by the Secretary has become final and effective or is set aside on appellate review. Attorneys of the Department of Agriculture may, with the approval of the Attorney General, appear in the United States district court representing the Secretary in any action brought under this section.

*([Pub. L. 89–544, § 29](/us/pl/89/544/s29), as added [Pub. L. 101–624, title XXV, § 2503(2)](/us/pl/101/624/tXXV/s2503/2), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4067](/us/stat/104/4067).)*
