---
title: "§ 20131. Public access to information"
identifier: "USC-T51-S20131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section20131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3338](/us/stat/124/3338).)"
---
# § 20131. Public access to information

##### § 20131. Public access to information

(a) Public Inspection.— Information obtained or developed by the Administrator in the performance of the Administrator’s functions under this chapter shall be made available for public inspection, except information—

(1) authorized or required by Federal statute to be withheld;

(2) classified to protect the national security; or

(3) described in subsection (b).

(b) Special Handling of Trade Secret or Confidential Information.—

(1) In general.— The Administrator, for a period of up to 5 years after the development of information described in paragraph (2), may provide appropriate protections against the dissemination of such information, including exemption from subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5.

(2) Information described.— Information referred to in paragraph (1) is information that results from activities conducted under an agreement entered into under subsections (e) and (f) of [section 20113 of this title](/us/usc/t51/s20113), and that would be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential under the meaning of [section 552(b)(4) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/b/4) if the information had been obtained from a non-Federal party participating in such an agreement.

(c) Committees of Congress.— Nothing in this chapter authorizes the withholding of information by the Administrator from the duly authorized committees of Congress.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3338](/us/stat/124/3338).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20131(a) | 42 U.S.C. 2454(a) (words before proviso). | Pub. L. 85–568, title III, § 303, July 29, 1958, 72 Stat. 433; Pub. L. 102–588, title V, § 509, Nov. 4, 1992, 106 Stat. 5129. |
| 20131(b) | 42 U.S.C. 2454(b). |  |
| 20131(c) | 42 U.S.C. 2454(a) (proviso). |  |
