---
title: "§ 308705. Designation of America’s National Maritime Museum"
identifier: "USC-T54-S308705"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section308705"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3242](/us/stat/128/3242).)"
---
# § 308705. Designation of America’s National Maritime Museum

##### § 308705. Designation of America’s National Maritime Museum

(a) In General.— America’s National Maritime Museum shall be composed of the museums designated by law to be museums of America’s National Maritime Museum on the basis that the museums—

(1) house a collection of maritime artifacts clearly representing the Nation’s maritime heritage; and

(2) provide outreach programs to educate the public about the Nation’s maritime heritage.

(b) Initial Designation.— The following museums (meeting the criteria specified in subsection (a)) are designated as museums of America’s National Maritime Museum:

(1) The Mariners’ Museum, located at 100 Museum Drive, Newport News, Virginia.

(2) The South Street Seaport Museum, located at 207 Front Street, New York, New York.

(c) Future Designation of Other Museums Not Precluded.— The designation of the museums referred to in subsection (b) as museums of America’s National Maritime Museum does not preclude the designation by law of any other museum that meets the criteria specified in subsection (a) as a museum of America’s National Maritime Museum.

(d) Reference to Museums.— Any reference in any law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to a museum designated by law to be a museum of America’s National Maritime Museum shall be deemed to be a reference to that museum as a museum of America’s National Maritime Museum.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3242](/us/stat/128/3242).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 308705 | 16 U.S.C. 5409. | Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1068, Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2135. |
