---
title: "§ 40726. Allowances for junior competitors"
identifier: "USC-T36-S40726"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section40726"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1338](/us/stat/112/1338).)"
---
# § 40726. Allowances for junior competitors

##### § 40726. Allowances for junior competitors

(a) Definition.— In this section, a “junior competitor” is a competitor at the National Matches, a small-arms firing school, a competition in connection with the National Matches, or a special clinic under [section 40725 of this title](/us/usc/t36/s40725) who is—

(1) less than 18 years of age; or

(2) a member of a gun club organized for the students of a college or university.

(b) Subsistence Allowance.— A junior competitor may be paid a subsistence allowance in an amount prescribed by the Secretary of the Army.

(c) Travel Allowance.— A junior competitor may be paid a travel allowance in an amount prescribed by the Secretary instead of travel expenses and subsistence while traveling. The travel allowance for the return trip may be paid in advance.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1338](/us/stat/112/1338).)*

In this section, the provisions for a junior competitor to be paid a subsistence allowance and a travel allowance prescribed by “the Secretary of the Army” are retained notwithstanding section 1612(d) of The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996 ([Public Law 104–106](/us/pl/104/106), [110 Stat. 517](/us/stat/110/517)) which transferred the Civilian Marksmanship Program, including the National Matches, from the Secretary of the Army to the corporation. The conforming amendments in section 1624 of the Act ([110 Stat. 522](/us/stat/110/522)) did not repeal the authority of the Secretary of the Army to prescribe National Matches under 10:4312 or to prescribe subsistence and travel allowances for competitors under 10:4313.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40726(a) (words before cl. (1)) | 10:4313(a)(1) (words before “may be paid”). |  |
| 40726(a) (less words before cl. (1)) | 10:4313(b). |  |
| 40726(b) | 10:4313(a)(1) (words beginning “may be paid”). |  |
| 40726(c) | 10:4313(a)(2). |  |
