---
title: "§ 10112. Senior Policy Advisor on Culturally Specific Communities within the Office of Justice Programs"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10112"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10112"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title XIII, § 1313](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tXIII/s1313), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 935](/us/stat/136/935).)"
---
# § 10112. Senior Policy Advisor on Culturally Specific Communities within the Office of Justice Programs

##### § 10112. Senior Policy Advisor on Culturally Specific Communities within the Office of Justice Programs

(a) Establishment; duties There shall be a Senior Policy Advisor on Culturally Specific Communities within the Office of Justice Programs who shall, under the guidance and authority of the Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Justice Programs—

(1) advise on the administration of grants related to culturally specific (as defined in [section 12291(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12291/a)) services and contracts with culturally specific organizations;

(2) coordinate development of Federal policy, protocols, and guidelines on matters relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking (as those terms are defined in [section 12291(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12291/a)), in culturally specific communities;

(3) advise the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs concerning policies, legislation, implementation of laws, and other issues relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in culturally specific communities;

(4) provide technical assistance, coordination, and support to other offices and bureaus in the Department of Justice to develop policy and to enforce Federal laws relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in culturally specific communities;

(5) ensure that appropriate technical assistance, developed and provided by entities having expertise in culturally specific communities, is made available to grantees and potential grantees proposing to serve culturally specific communities; and

(6) ensure access to grants and technical assistance for culturally specific organizations and analyze the distribution of funding in order to identify barriers for culturally specific organizations.

(b) Qualifications The Senior Policy Advisor on Culturally Specific Communities shall be an individual with—

(1) personal, lived, and work experience from a culturally specific community; and

(2) a demonstrated history of and expertise in addressing domestic violence or sexual assault in a nongovernmental agency.

(c) Initial appointment Not later than 120 days after March 15, 2022, the Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Justice Programs shall appoint an individual as Senior Policy Advisor on Culturally Specific Communities.

*([Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title XIII, § 1313](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tXIII/s1313), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 935](/us/stat/136/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization Act of 2022, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022, and not as part of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.
