---
title: "§ 6247a. Use of underutilized facilities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6247a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6247a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–163, title I, § 168](/us/pl/94/163/tI/s168), as added [Pub. L. 105–33, title IX, § 9303(a)](/us/pl/105/33/tIX/s9303/a), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 676](/us/stat/111/676).)"
---
# § 6247a. Use of underutilized facilities

##### § 6247a. Use of underutilized facilities

(a) Authority Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the Secretary, by lease or otherwise, for any term and under such other conditions as the Secretary considers necessary or appropriate, may store in underutilized Strategic Petroleum Reserve facilities petroleum product 11 So in original. Probably should be “products”. owned by a foreign government or its representative. Petroleum products stored under this section are not part of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and may be exported without license from the United States.

(b) Protection of facilities All agreements entered into pursuant to subsection (a) shall contain provisions providing for fees to fully compensate the United States for all related costs of storage and removals of petroleum products (including the proportionate cost of replacement facilities necessitated as a result of any withdrawals) incurred by the United States on behalf of the foreign government or its representative.

(c) Access to stored oil The Secretary shall ensure that agreements to store petroleum products for foreign governments or their representatives do not impair the ability of the United States to withdraw, distribute, or sell petroleum products from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in response to an energy emergency or to the obligations of the United States under the Agreement on an International Energy Program.

(d) Availability of funds Funds collected through the leasing of Strategic Petroleum Reserve facilities authorized by subsection (a) after September 30, 2007, shall be used by the Secretary of Energy without further appropriation for the purchase of petroleum products for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

*([Pub. L. 94–163, title I, § 168](/us/pl/94/163/tI/s168), as added [Pub. L. 105–33, title IX, § 9303(a)](/us/pl/105/33/tIX/s9303/a), Aug. 5, 1997, [111 Stat. 676](/us/stat/111/676).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 94–163](/us/pl/94/163), Dec. 22, 1975, [89 Stat. 875](/us/stat/89/875), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.
