---
title: "§ 3346. Compilation and organization of previously declassified records"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3346"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3346"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title X, § 1075], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–280.)"
---
# § 3346. Compilation and organization of previously declassified records

##### § 3346. Compilation and organization of previously declassified records

(a) , (b) Omitted

(c) Compilation and organization of records The Department of Defense may not be required, when conducting a special search, to compile or organize records that have already been declassified and placed into the public domain.

(d) Special searches For the purpose of this section, the term “special search” means the response of the Department of Defense to any of the following:

(1) A statutory requirement to conduct a declassification review on a specified set of agency records.

(2) An Executive order to conduct a declassification review on a specified set of agency records.

(3) An order from the President or an official with delegated authority from the President to conduct a declassification review on a specified set of agency records.

*([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title X, § 1075], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–280.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This section, referred to in subsec. (d), is section 1075 of H.R. 5408 of the 106th Congress, as introduced on Oct. 6, 2000, and as enacted into law by [section 1 of Pub. L. 106–398](/us/pl/106/398/s1), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654). See Codification note below.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 435 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s435) prior to editorial reclassification as this section.

Section is comprised of section 1075 of H.R. 5408 of the 106th Congress, as introduced on Oct. 6, 2000, and as enacted into law by [section 1 of Pub. L. 106–398](/us/pl/106/398/s1), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654). Subsec. (a) of section 1075 amended former [section 230 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s230), Armed Forces and subsec. (b) of section 1075 was not classified to the Code.
