---
title: "§ 300hh–35. Epidemic forecasting and outbreak analytics"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300hh–35"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300hh–35"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVIII, § 2825, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2214](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2214), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5739](/us/stat/136/5739).)"
---
# § 300hh–35. Epidemic forecasting and outbreak analytics

##### § 300hh–35. Epidemic forecasting and outbreak analytics

(a) In general The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall continue activities related to the development of infectious disease outbreak analysis capabilities to enhance the prediction, modeling, and forecasting of potential public health emergencies and other infectious disease outbreaks, which may include activities to support preparedness for, and response to, such emergencies and outbreaks. In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall identify strategies to include and leverage, as appropriate, the capabilities to public and private entities, which may include conducting such activities through collaborative partnerships with public and private entities, including academic institutions, and other Federal agencies, consistent with [section 247d–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247d–4), as applicable.

(b) Considerations In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may consider public health data and, as appropriate, other data sources related to preparedness for, or response to, public health emergencies and infectious disease outbreaks.

(c) Annual reports Not later than 1 year after December 29, 2022, and annually thereafter for each of the subsequent 4 years, the Secretary shall prepare and submit a report, to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, regarding an update on progress on activities conducted under this section to develop infectious disease outbreak analysis capabilities and any additional information relevant to such efforts.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVIII, § 2825, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2214](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2214), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5739](/us/stat/136/5739).)*
