---
title: "§ 8480. Subpoena authority"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8480"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8480"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–31, div. B, title I, § 107(a)](/us/pl/111/31/dB/tI/s107/a), June 22, 2009, [123 Stat. 1856](/us/stat/123/1856).)"
---
# § 8480. Subpoena authority

##### § 8480. Subpoena authority

(a) In order to carry out the responsibilities specified in this subchapter and subchapter III of this chapter, the Executive Director may issue subpoenas commanding each person to whom the subpoena is directed to produce designated books, documents, records, electronically stored information, or tangible materials in the possession or control of that individual.

(b) Notwithstanding any Federal, State, or local law, any person, including officers, agents, and employees, receiving a subpoena under this section, who complies in good faith with the subpoena and thus produces the materials sought, shall not be liable in any court of any State or the United States to any individual, domestic or foreign corporation or upon a partnership or other unincorporated association for such production.

(c) When a person fails to obey a subpoena issued under this section, the district court of the United States for the district in which the investigation is conducted or in which the person failing to obey is found, shall on proper application issue an order directing that person to comply with the subpoena. The court may punish as contempt any disobedience of its order.

(d) The Executive Director shall prescribe regulations to carry out subsection (a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–31, div. B, title I, § 107(a)](/us/pl/111/31/dB/tI/s107/a), June 22, 2009, [123 Stat. 1856](/us/stat/123/1856).)*
