---
title: "§ 300ff–53. Preferences in making grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300ff–53"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300ff–53"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2653, as added [Pub. L. 101–381, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/101/381/tIII/s301/a), Aug. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 608](/us/stat/104/608); amended [Pub. L. 106–345, title III, § 311](/us/pl/106/345/tIII/s311), Oct. 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 1345](/us/stat/114/1345); [Pub. L. 109–415, title III, § 302(b)](/us/pl/109/415/tIII/s302/b), title VII, §§ 702(3), 703, Dec. 19, 2006, [120 Stat. 2806](/us/stat/120/2806), 2820; [Pub. L. 111–87, § 2(a)(1"
---
# § 300ff–53. Preferences in making grants

##### § 300ff–53. Preferences in making grants

(a) In general In making grants under [section 300ff–51 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–51), the Secretary shall give preference to any qualified applicant experiencing an increase in the burden of providing services regarding HIV/AIDS, as indicated by the factors specified in subsection (b).

(b) Specification of factors

(1) In general In the case of the geographic area with respect to which the entity involved is applying for a grant under [section 300ff–51 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–51), the factors referred to in subsection (a), as determined for the period specified in paragraph (2), are—

(A) the number of cases of HIV/AIDS;

(B) the rate of increase in such cases;

(C) the lack of availability of early intervention services;

(D) the number of other cases of sexually transmitted diseases, and 11 So in original. The word “and” probably should not appear. the number of cases of tuberculosis and of drug abuse 22 So in original. A comma probably should appear. and the number of cases of individuals co-infected with HIV/AIDS and hepatitis B or C;

(E) the rate of increase in each of the cases specified in subparagraph (D);

(F) the lack of availability of primary health services from providers other than such applicant; and

(G) the distance between such area and the nearest community that has an adequate level of availability of appropriate HIV-related services, and the length of time required to travel such distance.

(2) Relevant period of time The period referred to in paragraph (1) is the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the entity involved is applying to receive a grant under [section 300ff–51 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–51).

(c) Equitable allocations In providing preferences for purposes of subsection (b), the Secretary shall equitably allocate the preferences among urban and rural areas.

(d) Certain areas Of the applicants who qualify for preference under this section—

(1) the Secretary shall give preference to applicants that will expend the grant under [section 300ff–51 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–51) to provide early intervention under such section in rural areas; and

(2) the Secretary shall give preference to areas that are underserved with respect to such services.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2653, as added [Pub. L. 101–381, title III, § 301(a)](/us/pl/101/381/tIII/s301/a), Aug. 18, 1990, [104 Stat. 608](/us/stat/104/608); amended [Pub. L. 106–345, title III, § 311](/us/pl/106/345/tIII/s311), Oct. 20, 2000, [114 Stat. 1345](/us/stat/114/1345); [Pub. L. 109–415, title III, § 302(b)](/us/pl/109/415/tIII/s302/b), title VII, §§ 702(3), 703, Dec. 19, 2006, [120 Stat. 2806](/us/stat/120/2806), 2820; [Pub. L. 111–87, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/87/s2/a/1), (3)(A), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2885](/us/stat/123/2885).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2009—[Pub. L. 111–87](/us/pl/111/87) repealed [Pub. L. 109–415, § 703](/us/pl/109/415/s703), and revived the provisions of this section as in effect on Sept. 30, 2009. See 2006 Amendment note and Effective Date of 2009 Amendment; Revival of Section note below.

2006—[Pub. L. 109–415, § 703](/us/pl/109/415/s703), which directed repeal of this section effective Oct. 1, 2009, was itself repealed by [Pub. L. 111–87, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/111/87/s2/a/1), effective Sept. 30, 2009.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–415, § 702(3)](/us/pl/109/415/s702/3), substituted “HIV/AIDS” for “HIV disease”.

Subsec. (b)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 109–415, § 302(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/109/415/s302/b/1/A), substituted “HIV/AIDS” for “acquired immune deficiency syndrome”.

Subsec. (b)(1)(D). [Pub. L. 109–415, § 302(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/109/415/s302/b/1/B), inserted “and the number of cases of individuals co-infected with HIV/AIDS and hepatitis B or C” before semicolon at end.

Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 109–415, § 302(b)(2)](/us/pl/109/415/s302/b/2), substituted “preference” for “special consideration”.

2000—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 106–345](/us/pl/106/345) added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment; Revival of Section

For provisions that repeal by [section 2(a)(1) of Pub. L. 111–87](/us/pl/111/87/s2/a/1) of [section 703 of Pub. L. 109–415](/us/pl/109/415/s703) be effective Sept. 30, 2009, and that the provisions of this section as in effect on Sept. 30, 2009, be revived, see section 2(a)(2), (3)(A) of [Pub. L. 111–87](/us/pl/111/87), set out as a note under [section 300ff–11 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–11).
