---
title: "§ 2715a. Provision of information on certain violent crimes abroad to victims and victims’ families"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2715a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2715a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–107, title III, § 307](/us/pl/105/107/tIII/s307), Nov. 20, 1997, [111 Stat. 2252](/us/stat/111/2252).)"
---
# § 2715a. Provision of information on certain violent crimes abroad to victims and victims’ families

##### § 2715a. Provision of information on certain violent crimes abroad to victims and victims’ families

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that—

(1) it is in the national interests of the United States to provide information regarding the killing, abduction, torture, or other serious mistreatment of United States citizens abroad to the victims of such crimes, or the families of victims of such crimes if they are United States citizens; and

(2) the provision of such information is sufficiently important that the discharge of the responsibility for identifying and disseminating such information should be vested in a cabinet-level officer of the United States Government.

(b) Responsibility The Secretary of State shall take appropriate actions to ensure that the United States Government takes all appropriate actions to—

(1) identify promptly information (including classified information) in the possession of the departments and agencies of the United States Government regarding the killing, abduction, torture, or other serious mistreatment of United States citizens abroad; and

(2) subject to subsection (c), promptly make such information available to—

(A) the victims of such crimes; or

(B) when appropriate, the family members of the victims of such crimes if such family members are United States citizens.

(c) Limitations The Secretary shall work with the heads of appropriate departments and agencies of the United States Government in order to ensure that information relevant to a crime covered by subsection (b) is promptly reviewed and, to the maximum extent practicable, without jeopardizing sensitive sources and methods or other vital national security interests, or without jeopardizing an on-going criminal investigation or proceeding, made available under that subsection unless such disclosure is specifically prohibited by law.

*([Pub. L. 105–107, title III, § 307](/us/pl/105/107/tIII/s307), Nov. 20, 1997, [111 Stat. 2252](/us/stat/111/2252).)*
