---
title: "§ 8424. Restoration of overnight campsites"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8424"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8424"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 124](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s124), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2846](/us/stat/138/2846).)"
---
# § 8424. Restoration of overnight campsites

##### § 8424. Restoration of overnight campsites

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Recreation Area The term “Recreation Area” means the recreation area and grounds associated with the recreation area on the map entitled “Ouachita National Forest Camping Restoration” and dated November 30, 2023, on file with the Forest Service.

(2) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.

(b) In general The Secretary shall—

(1) not later than 6 months after January 4, 2025, identify 54 areas within the Recreation Area that may be suitable for overnight camping; and

(2) not later than 2 years after January 4, 2025—

(A) review each area identified under paragraph (1); and

(B) from the areas so identified, select and establish at least 27 campsites and related facilities within the Recreation Area for public use.

(c) Requirements related to campsites and related facilities The Secretary shall—

(1) ensure that at least 27 campsites are available under subsection (b), of which not less than 8 shall have electric and water hookups; and

(2) ensure that each campsite and related facility identified or established under subsection (b) is located outside of the 1 percent annual exceedance probability flood elevation.

(d) Reopening of certain sites Not later than 30 days after January 4, 2025, the Secretary shall open each campsite within the Recreation Area that—

(1) exists on January 4, 2025;

(2) is located outside of the 1 percent annual exceedance probability flood elevation;

(3) was in operation on June 1, 2010; and

(4) would not interfere with any current (as of January 4, 2025) day use areas.

(e) Day use areas Not later than 1 year after January 4, 2025, the Secretary shall take such actions as are necessary to rehabilitate and make publicly accessible the areas in the Recreation Area identified for year-round day use, including the following:

(1) Loop A.

(2) Loop B.

(3) The covered, large-group picnic pavilion in Loop D.

(4) The parking lot in Loop D.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 124](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s124), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2846](/us/stat/138/2846).)*
