---
title: "§ 5104. Decisions and notices of decisions"
identifier: "USC-T38-S5104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section5104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 101–237, title I, § 115(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/237/tI/s115/a/1), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2065](/us/stat/103/2065), § 3004; renumbered § 5104, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); amended [Pub. L. 102–54, § 14(d)(1)](/us/pl/102/54/s14/d/1), June 13, 1991, [105 Stat. 285](/us/stat/105/285); [Pub. L. 103–446, title XII, § 1201(d)(15)](/us/pl/103/446/tXII/s1201/d/15), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4684](/us/stat/"
---
# § 5104. Decisions and notices of decisions

##### § 5104. Decisions and notices of decisions

(a) In the case of a decision by the Secretary under [section 511 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s511) affecting the provision of benefits to a claimant, the Secretary shall, on a timely basis, provide to the claimant (and to the claimant’s representative) notice of such decision. The notice shall include an explanation of the procedure for obtaining review of the decision.

(b) Each notice provided under subsection (a) shall also include all of the following:

(1) Identification of the issues adjudicated.

(2) A summary of the evidence considered by the Secretary.

(3) A summary of the applicable laws and regulations.

(4) Identification of findings favorable to the claimant.

(5) In the case of a denial, identification of elements not satisfied leading to the denial.

(6) An explanation of how to obtain or access evidence used in making the decision.

(7) If applicable, identification of the criteria that must be satisfied to grant service connection or the next higher level of compensation.

(c) The Secretary may provide notice under subsection (a) electronically if a claimant (or the claimant’s representative) elects to receive such notice electronically. A claimant (or the claimant’s representative) may revoke such an election at any time, by means prescribed by the Secretary.

(d) The Secretary shall annually—

(1) solicit recommendations from stakeholders on how to improve notice under this section; and

(2) publish such recommendations on a publicly available website of the Department.

*(Added [Pub. L. 101–237, title I, § 115(a)(1)](/us/pl/101/237/tI/s115/a/1), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2065](/us/stat/103/2065), § 3004; renumbered § 5104, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/1), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 238](/us/stat/105/238); amended [Pub. L. 102–54, § 14(d)(1)](/us/pl/102/54/s14/d/1), June 13, 1991, [105 Stat. 285](/us/stat/105/285); [Pub. L. 103–446, title XII, § 1201(d)(15)](/us/pl/103/446/tXII/s1201/d/15), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4684](/us/stat/108/4684); [Pub. L. 115–55, § 2(e)](/us/pl/115/55/s2/e), Aug. 23, 2017, [131 Stat. 1106](/us/stat/131/1106); [Pub. L. 117–168, title VIII, § 807(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/168/tVIII/s807/a/2), Aug. 10, 2022, [136 Stat. 1806](/us/stat/136/1806).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior section 5104 was renumbered [section 8304 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s8304).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 117–168](/us/pl/117/168) added subsecs. (c) and (d).

2017—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows: “In any case where the Secretary denies a benefit sought, the notice required by subsection (a) shall also include (1) a statement of the reasons for the decision, and (2) a summary of the evidence considered by the Secretary.”

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–446](/us/pl/103/446) substituted “section 511” for “section 211(a)”.

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 3004 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3004) as this section.

[Pub. L. 102–54](/us/pl/102/54) amended section as in effect immediately before enactment of [Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) by striking out “(1)” after “(a)” and substituting “(b)” for “(2)”, “subsection (a)” for “paragraph (1) of this subsection”, “(1)” for “(A)”, and “(2)” for “(B)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55) applicable to all claims for which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs provides notice of a decision under this section on or after the later of 540 days after Aug. 23, 2017, or 30 days after the date on which the Secretary submits to Congress a certification of certain capabilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs to carry out the new appeals system established by [Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55) and to address appeals of decisions on legacy claims, with provision for early applicability of the new appeals system to certain claims, see [section 2(x) of Pub. L. 115–55](/us/pl/115/55/s2/x), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s101), and bracketed note thereunder.

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 101–237, title I, § 115(b)](/us/pl/101/237/tI/s115/b), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2066](/us/stat/103/2066), provided that: “Section 3004 [now 5104] of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to decisions by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs made after January 31, 1990.”

#### Rule of Construction

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–168](/us/pl/117/168) not to be construed to apply subsec. (a) of this section to decisions of the Board of Veterans’ Appeals under chapter 71 of this title, see [section 807(b) of Pub. L. 117–168](/us/pl/117/168/s807/b), set out as a note under [section 5100 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5100).
