---
title: "§ 7694. Specialty education loan repayment"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7694"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7694"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tIII/s303/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/132/1465).)"
---
# § 7694. Specialty education loan repayment

##### § 7694. Specialty education loan repayment

(a) In General.— Payments under the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program shall consist of payments for the principal and interest on loans described in [section 7682(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s7682/a/2) for individuals selected to participate in the Program to the holders of such loans.

(b) Frequency of Payment.— The Secretary shall make payments for any given participant in the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program on a schedule determined appropriate by the Secretary.

(c) Maximum Amount; Waiver.—

(1) The amount of payments made for a participant under the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program may not exceed $160,000 over a total of 4 years of participation in the Program, of which not more than $40,000 of such payments may be made in each year of participation in the Program.

(2)

(A) The Secretary may waive the limitations under paragraph (1) in the case of a participant described in subparagraph (B). In the case of such a waiver, the total amount of payments payable to or for that participant is the total amount of the principal and the interest on the participant’s loans referred to in subsection (a).

(B) A participant described in this subparagraph is a participant in the Program who the Secretary determines serves in a position for which there is a shortage of qualified employees by reason of either the location or the requirements of the position.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–182, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/115/182/tIII/s303/a), June 6, 2018, [132 Stat. 1465](/us/stat/132/1465).)*
