---
title: "§ 9302. Prohibition against surety bonds for United States Government personnel"
identifier: "USC-T31-S9302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section9302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1046](/us/stat/96/1046).)"
---
# § 9302. Prohibition against surety bonds for United States Government personnel

##### § 9302. Prohibition against surety bonds for United States Government personnel

An agency (except a mixed-ownership Government corporation) may not require or obtain a surety bond for a member of the uniformed services or an officer or employee of the United States Government in carrying out official duties. This section does not affect the personal financial liability of the member, officer, or employee.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1046](/us/stat/96/1046).)*

The words “agency (except a mixed-ownership Government corporation)” are substituted for 31:1201(c)(words before last comma) and “agency of the Federal Government” because of section 101 of the revised title and for consistency. The words “member of the uniformed services or an officer or employee of the United States Government” are substituted for “civilian employees or military personnel” for consistency with other titles of the United States Code. The words “in carrying out official duties” are substituted for “in connection with the performance of their official duties” to eliminate unnecessary words and because of the restatement. The words “to the Federal Government” are omitted as surplus. The words “member, officer, or employee” are substituted for “employees and personnel” because of the restatement.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 9302 | 31:1201. | June 6, 1972, Pub. L. 92–310, § 101, 86 Stat. 201. |
