---
title: "§ 2305. Staff"
identifier: "USC-T36-S2305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section2305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–292, § 1](/us/pl/106/292/s1), Oct. 12, 2000, [114 Stat. 1032](/us/stat/114/1032).)"
---
# § 2305. Staff

##### § 2305. Staff

(a) Establishment of the Museum Director as Chief Executive Officer.— There shall be a director of the Museum (hereafter in this chapter referred to as the “Director”) who shall serve as chief executive officer of the Museum and exercise day-to-day authority for the Museum. The Director shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Council, subject to confirmation of the Council. The Director may be paid with nonappropriated funds, and, if paid with appropriated funds shall be paid the rate of basic pay for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315). The Director shall report to the Council and its Executive Committee through the Chairperson. The Director shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.

(b) Appointment of Employees.— The Director shall have authority to—

(1) appoint employees in the competitive service subject to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, relating to classification and general schedule pay rates;

(2) appoint and fix the compensation (at a rate not to exceed the rate of basic pay in effect for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315)) of up to three employees notwithstanding any other provision of law; and

(3) implement the decisions and strategic plan for the Museum, as approved by the Council, and perform such other functions as may be assigned from time-to-time by the Council, the Executive Committee of the Council, or the Chairperson of the Council, consistent with this legislation.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–292, § 1](/us/pl/106/292/s1), Oct. 12, 2000, [114 Stat. 1032](/us/stat/114/1032).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2305, [Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1278](/us/stat/112/1278), related to the establishment of the memorial museum, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 106–292](/us/pl/106/292).
