---
title: "§ 2152j–2. Training requirements regarding the participation of women in conflict prevention and peace building"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2152j–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2152j–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–68, § 6](/us/pl/115/68/s6), Oct. 6, 2017, [131 Stat. 1204](/us/stat/131/1204).)"
---
# § 2152j–2. Training requirements regarding the participation of women in conflict prevention and peace building

##### § 2152j–2. Training requirements regarding the participation of women in conflict prevention and peace building

(a) Foreign Service The Secretary of State, in conjunction with the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, shall ensure that all appropriate personnel (including special envoys, members of mediation or negotiation teams, relevant members of the civil service or Foreign Service, and contractors) responsible for or deploying to countries or regions considered to be at risk of, undergoing, or emerging from violent conflict obtain training, as appropriate, in the following areas, each of which shall include a focus on women and ensuring meaningful participation by women:

(1) Conflict prevention, mitigation, and resolution.

(2) Protecting civilians from violence, exploitation, and trafficking in persons.

(3) International human rights law and international humanitarian law.

(b) Department of Defense The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that relevant personnel receive training, as appropriate, in the following areas:

(1) Training in conflict prevention, peace processes, mitigation, resolution, and security initiatives that specifically addresses the importance of meaningful participation by women.

(2) Gender considerations and meaningful participation by women, including training regarding—

(A) international human rights law and international humanitarian law, as relevant; and

(B) protecting civilians from violence, exploitation, and trafficking in persons.

(3) Effective strategies and best practices for ensuring meaningful participation by women.

*([Pub. L. 115–68, § 6](/us/pl/115/68/s6), Oct. 6, 2017, [131 Stat. 1204](/us/stat/131/1204).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.
