---
title: "§ 203. Unlawful businesses without permit; application to State agency"
identifier: "USC-T27-S203"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title27-section203"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "27"
source_credit: "([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title I, § 103, formerly § 3, [49 Stat. 978](/us/stat/49/978); [Feb. 29, 1936, ch. 105, § 1](/us/act/1936-02-29/ch105/s1), [49 Stat. 1152](/us/stat/49/1152); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. III, § 2, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2108, [54 Stat. 1232](/us/stat/54/1232); renumbered title I, § 103, and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/1), (2), (b)(2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4517](/us/stat/102/4517), 4521.)"
---
# § 203. Unlawful businesses without permit; application to State agency

##### § 203. Unlawful businesses without permit; application to State agency

(a) It shall be unlawful, except pursuant to a basic permit issued under this subchapter by the Secretary of the Treasury—

(1) to engage in the business of importing into the United States distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages; or

(2) for any person so engaged to sell, offer or deliver for sale, contract to sell, or ship, in interstate or foreign commerce, directly or indirectly or through an affiliate, distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages so imported.

(b) It shall be unlawful, except pursuant to a basic permit issued under this subchapter by the Secretary of the Treasury—

(1) to engage in the business of distilling distilled spirits, producing wine, rectifying or blending distilled spirits or wine, or bottling, or warehousing and bottling, distilled spirits; or

(2) for any person so engaged to sell, offer or deliver for sale, contract to sell, or ship, in interstate or foreign commerce, directly or indirectly or through an affiliate, distilled spirits or wine so distilled, produced, rectified, blended, or bottled, or warehoused and bottled.

(c) It shall be unlawful, except pursuant to a basic permit issued under this subchapter by the Secretary of the Treasury—

This subsection shall take effect July 1, 1936.

This section shall not apply to any agency of a State or political subdivision thereof or any officer or employee of any such agency, and no such agency or officer or employee shall be required to obtain a basic permit under this subchapter.

(1) to engage in the business of purchasing for resale at wholesale distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages; or

(2) for any person so engaged to receive or to sell, offer or deliver for sale, contract to sell, or ship, in interstate or foreign commerce, directly or indirectly or through an affiliate, distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages so purchased.

*([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title I, § 103, formerly § 3, [49 Stat. 978](/us/stat/49/978); [Feb. 29, 1936, ch. 105, § 1](/us/act/1936-02-29/ch105/s1), [49 Stat. 1152](/us/stat/49/1152); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. III, § 2, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2108, [54 Stat. 1232](/us/stat/54/1232); renumbered title I, § 103, and amended [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/1), (2), (b)(2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4517](/us/stat/102/4517), 4521.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In the original, subsections (a) and (b) of this section contained a final paragraph which provided as follows: “This subsection shall take effect sixty days after the date upon which the Administrator first appointed under this title takes office.”

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–690, § 8001(b)(2)](/us/pl/100/690/s8001/b/2), substituted “subchapter” for “chapter” wherever appearing.

1936—Subsec. (c). Act Feb. 29, 1936, extended the effective date from March 1, 1936, to July 1, 1936.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of the Treasury” was substituted in text for “Administrator”, meaning the Administrator of the Federal Alcohol Administration, pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. III of 1940, see note set out under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t27/s201).
