---
title: "§ 1546. Disposition of cash settlements"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1546"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1546"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([May 24, 1950, ch. 197, § 2](/us/act/1950-05-24/ch197/s2), [64 Stat. 190](/us/stat/64/190).)"
---
# § 1546. Disposition of cash settlements

##### § 1546. Disposition of cash settlements

Any moneys received on and after May 24, 1950, in settlement of such debts or from the sale of livestock so repaid to the United States shall be deposited in the revolving fund established pursuant to the Acts of June 18, 1934 ([48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984)) [[25 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t25/s5101) et seq.], and June 26, 1936 ([49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967)), as amended and supplemented.

*([May 24, 1950, ch. 197, § 2](/us/act/1950-05-24/ch197/s2), [64 Stat. 190](/us/stat/64/190).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, is [act June 18, 1934, ch. 576](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576), [48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, which is classified generally to chapter 45 (§ 5101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables. Provisions of the Act establishing the revolving fund are set out in [section 5113 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5113).

Act of June 26, 1936, referred to in text, is [act June 26, 1936, ch. 831](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967), popularly known as the Oklahoma Welfare Act, which was classified generally to subchapter VIII (§ 501 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 45A (§ 5201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5201) and Tables. Provisions of the Act relating to the revolving fund appear in [section 5206 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5206).

Funds in the revolving fund authorized by these Acts, and certain other sums, to be administered after Apr. 12, 1974, as a single Indian Revolving Loan Fund, see [section 1461 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1461).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of [act May 24, 1950, ch. 197](/us/act/1950-05-24/ch197), and not as part of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to [section 443 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s443) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
