---
title: "§ 3504a. Ocean and coastal mapping Federal funding opportunity"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3504a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3504a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12206](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12206), as added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CIII, § 10307(e)(2)](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCIII/s10307/e/2), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3978](/us/stat/136/3978).)"
---
# § 3504a. Ocean and coastal mapping Federal funding opportunity

##### § 3504a. Ocean and coastal mapping Federal funding opportunity

(a) In general Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of the National Ocean Exploration Act,11 See References in Text note below. the Administrator shall develop an integrated ocean and coastal mapping Federal funding match opportunity, to be known as the “Brennan Ocean Mapping Fund” in memory of Rear Admiral Richard T. Brennan, within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration with Federal, State, Tribal, local, nonprofit, private industry, or academic partners in order to increase the coordinated acquisition, processing, stewardship, and archival of new ocean and coastal mapping data in United States waters.

(b) Rules The Administrator shall develop administrative and procedural rules for the ocean and coastal mapping Federal funding match opportunity developed under subsection (a), to include—

(1) specific and detailed criteria that must be addressed by an applicant, such as geographic overlap with preestablished priorities, number and type of project partners, benefit to the applicant, coordination with other funding opportunities, and benefit to the public;

(2) determination of the appropriate funding match amounts and mechanisms to use, such as grants, agreements, or contracts; and

(3) other funding award criteria as are necessary or appropriate to ensure that evaluations of proposals and decisions to award funding under this section are based on objective standards applied fairly and equitably to those proposals.

(c) Geospatial services and contract vehicles The ocean and coastal mapping Federal funding match opportunity developed under subsection (a) shall leverage Federal expertise and capacities for geospatial services and Federal geospatial contract vehicles using the private sector for acquisition efficiencies.

*([Pub. L. 111–11, title XII, § 12206](/us/pl/111/11/tXII/s12206), as added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title CIII, § 10307(e)(2)](/us/pl/117/263/dJ/tCIII/s10307/e/2), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3978](/us/stat/136/3978).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of the National Ocean Exploration Act, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), which was approved Dec. 23, 2022. Prior versions of the bill that was enacted into law as title CIII of div. J of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) included such Short Title, but it was not enacted as part of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 12206 of Pub. L. 111–11](/us/pl/111/11/s12206) was renumbered 12208 and is classified to [section 3505 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s3505).
