---
title: "§ 24318. Costs and revenues"
identifier: "USC-T49-S24318"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section24318"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title XI, § 11202(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tXI/s11202/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/129/1628); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title II, § 22206(a)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tII/s22206/a), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 700](/us/stat/135/700).)"
---
# § 24318. Costs and revenues

##### § 24318. Costs and revenues

(a) Allocation.— Amtrak shall establish and maintain internal controls to ensure Amtrak’s costs, revenues, and other compensation are appropriately allocated to the Northeast Corridor, including train services or infrastructure, or the National Network, including proportional shares of common and fixed costs.

(b) Rule of Construction.— Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of Amtrak to enter into an agreement with 1 or more States to allocate operating and capital costs under section 209 of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 ([49 U.S.C. 24101](/us/usc/t49/s24101) note).

(c) Definition of Northeast Corridor.— Notwithstanding section 24102, for purposes of this section, the term “Northeast Corridor” means the Northeast Corridor main line between Boston, Massachusetts, and the District of Columbia, and facilities and services used to operate and maintain that line.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–94, div. A, title XI, § 11202(a)](/us/pl/114/94/dA/tXI/s11202/a), Dec. 4, 2015, [129 Stat. 1628](/us/stat/129/1628); amended [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title II, § 22206(a)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tII/s22206/a), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 700](/us/stat/135/700).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 209 of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, referred to in subsec. (b), is [section 209 of div. B of Pub. L. 110–432](/us/pl/110/432/dB/s209), which is set out as a note under [section 24101 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s24101).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) struck out “Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015,” before “Amtrak”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2015, see [section 1003 of Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94/s1003), set out as an Effective Date of 2015 Amendment note under [section 5313 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5313), Government Organization and Employees.
