---
title: "§ 10402. Tribal grant program authorized"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1801A](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1801A), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12102(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12102/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1861](/us/stat/116/1861).)"
---
# § 10402. Tribal grant program authorized

##### § 10402. Tribal grant program authorized

(a) In general From the amount reserved under section 1810(b),11 See References in Text note below. the Attorney General shall make grants to Indian tribes for programs to strengthen tribal juvenile justice systems and to hold tribal youth accountable.

(b) Eligibility Indian tribes, as defined by [section 5130 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5130), or a consortia of such tribes, shall submit to the Attorney General an application in such form and containing such information as the Attorney General may require. Only tribes that carry out tribal juvenile justice functions shall be eligible to receive a grant under this section.

(c) Awards The Attorney General shall award grants under this section on a competitive basis.

(d) Guidelines The Attorney General shall issue guidelines establishing application, use, and award criteria and processes consistent with the purposes and requirements of this Act.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1801A](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1801A), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12102(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12102/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1861](/us/stat/116/1861).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1810(b), referred to in subsec. (a), is [section 1810(b) of title I of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1810/b), as added by [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12102(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12102/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1868](/us/stat/116/1868), which was classified to [section 3796ee–10 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796ee–10), The Public Health and Welfare, and was omitted from the Code as obsolete.

This Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197), known as the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796ee–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796ee–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
