---
title: "§ 2005. Truman scholars"
identifier: "USC-T20-S2005"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section2005"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–642, § 6](/us/pl/93/642/s6), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2278](/us/stat/88/2278).)"
---
# § 2005. Truman scholars

##### § 2005. Truman scholars

(a) Basis for award The Foundation is authorized to award scholarships to persons who demonstrate outstanding potential for and who plan to pursue a career in public service. Award recipients shall be known as Truman scholars.

(b) Maximum period of award Scholarships under this chapter shall be awarded for such periods as the Foundation may prescribe but not to exceed four academic years.

(c) Recipient’s choice of institution A student awarded a scholarship under this chapter may attend any institution of higher education offering courses of study, training, or other educational activities designed to prepare persons for a career in public service as determined pursuant to criteria established by the Foundation.

(d) Encouragement of recipient to pursue public service career Each student awarded a scholarship under this chapter must have indicated a serious intent to enter the public service upon the completion of his or her educational program. Each institution of higher education at which such a student is in attendance will make reasonable continuing efforts to encourage such a student to enter the public service upon completing his or her educational program.

*([Pub. L. 93–642, § 6](/us/pl/93/642/s6), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2278](/us/stat/88/2278).)*
