---
title: "§ 2921. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T14-S2921"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section2921"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 113–281, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/113/281/tII/s214/a), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/128/3031), § 551; renumbered § 2921, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 117(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s117/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4230](/us/stat/132/4230).)"
---
# § 2921. Definitions

##### § 2921. Definitions

(1) Child abuse and neglect.— The term “child abuse and neglect” has the meaning given that term in section 3 of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act ([42 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t42/s5101) note).

(2) Child development center employee.— The term “child development center employee” means a civilian employee of the Coast Guard who is employed to work in a Coast Guard child development center without regard to whether the employee is paid from appropriated or nonappropriated funds.

(3) Coast guard child development center.— The term “Coast Guard child development center” means a facility on Coast Guard property or on property under the jurisdiction of the commander of a Coast Guard unit at which child care services are provided for members of the Coast Guard.

(4) Competitive service position.— The term “competitive service position” means a position in the competitive service (as defined in [section 2102 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s2102)).

(5) Family home daycare.— The term “family home daycare” means home-based child care services provided for a member of the Coast Guard by an individual who—

(A) is certified by the Commandant as qualified to provide home-based child care services; and

(B) provides home-based child care services on a regular basis in exchange for monetary compensation.

*(Added [Pub. L. 113–281, title II, § 214(a)](/us/pl/113/281/tII/s214/a), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/128/3031), § 551; renumbered § 2921, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 117(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s117/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4230](/us/stat/132/4230).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 3 of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, referred to in par. (1), is [section 3 of Pub. L. 93–247](/us/pl/93/247/s3), which is set out as a note under [section 5101 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5101), The Public Health and Welfare.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 551 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s551) as this section.
