---
title: "§ 673. Wyoming Elk Reserve"
identifier: "USC-T16-S673"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section673"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1912, ch. 284](/us/act/1912-08-10/ch284), [37 Stat. 293](/us/stat/37/293); [Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 145, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch145/s1) (part), [37 Stat. 847](/us/stat/37/847); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)"
---
# § 673. Wyoming Elk Reserve

##### § 673. Wyoming Elk Reserve

There is established a winter game (elk) reserve in the State of Wyoming, which shall be located in that section of Wyoming lying south of the Yellowstone Park, and shall include not less than two thousand acres in township 41 north, ranges 115 and 116 west, and the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to purchase said lands with improvements, to erect necessary buildings and inclosures, and to incur other expenses necessary for the maintenance of the reserve. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to include in said refuge and to inclose not more than one thousand acres of unoccupied public lands, which when selected shall be made to conform to the lines of the public surveys, and shall be adjacent to or partly inclosed by said refuge.

*([Aug. 10, 1912, ch. 284](/us/act/1912-08-10/ch284), [37 Stat. 293](/us/stat/37/293); [Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 145, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch145/s1) (part), [37 Stat. 847](/us/stat/37/847); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is a combination provision, the first sentence being from act Aug. 10, 1912, and the last from act Mar. 4, 1913.

As originally enacted, the first sentence was in the form of an appropriation for the purposes thereof as was also the second sentence which began with the following words: “For the establishment and maintenance of a winter elk refuge in the State of Wyoming, $5,000, to be available until expended, and the Secretary, etc.”

Res. [Feb. 25, 1927, ch. 205](/us/act/1927-02-25/ch205), [44 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/44/1246), authorized the acceptance of title to certain lands in accordance with this section.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, transferred functions of Secretary of Agriculture relating to conservation of wildlife, game, and migratory birds to Secretary of the Interior.
