---
title: "§ 2781. Transactions with countries not fully cooperating with United States antiterrorism efforts"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2781"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2781"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), ch. 3, § 40A, as added [Pub. L. 104–132, title III, § 330](/us/pl/104/132/tIII/s330), Apr. 24, 1996, [110 Stat. 1258](/us/stat/110/1258).)"
---
# § 2781. Transactions with countries not fully cooperating with United States antiterrorism efforts

##### § 2781. Transactions with countries not fully cooperating with United States antiterrorism efforts

(a) Prohibited transactions No defense article or defense service may be sold or licensed for export under this chapter in a fiscal year to a foreign country that the President determines and certifies to Congress, by May 15 of the calendar year in which that fiscal year begins, is not cooperating fully with United States antiterrorism efforts.

(b) Waiver The President may waive the prohibition set forth in subsection (a) with respect to a specific transaction if the President determines that the transaction is important to the national interests of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), ch. 3, § 40A, as added [Pub. L. 104–132, title III, § 330](/us/pl/104/132/tIII/s330), Apr. 24, 1996, [110 Stat. 1258](/us/stat/110/1258).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/82/1321), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2751 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2751) and Tables.

#### Codification

Another [section 40A of Pub. L. 90–629](/us/pl/90/629/s40A) is classified to [section 2785 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2785).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of the President under this section, see section 1(q) of Ex. Ord. No. 13637, Mar. 8, 2013, 78 F.R. 16130, set out as a note under [section 2751 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2751). Functions were previously delegated by Ex. Ord. No. 11958, which was formerly set out as a note under [section 2751 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2751) and was revoked, subject to a savings provision, by section 4 of Ex. Ord. No. 13637.
