---
title: "§ 3052. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3052"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3052"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, § 8102](/us/pl/110/234/tVIII/s8102), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1287](/us/stat/122/1287); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title VIII, § 8102, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2048.)"
---
# § 3052. Definitions

##### § 3052. Definitions

(1) Adjacent site The term “adjacent site” means a site that borders a boundary line of National Forest System land.

(2) Cultural items The term “cultural items” has the meaning given the term in [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3001), except that the term does not include human remains.

(3) Human remains The term “human remains” means the physical remains of the body of a person of Indian ancestry.

(4) Indian The term “Indian” means an individual who is a member of an Indian tribe.

(5) Indian tribe The term “Indian tribe” means any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or other community the name of which is included on a list published by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to [section 5131 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5131).

(6) Lineal descendant The term “lineal descendant” means an individual that can trace, directly and without interruption, the ancestry of the individual through the traditional kinship system of an Indian tribe, or through the common law system of descent, to a known Indian, the human remains, funerary objects, or other sacred objects of whom are claimed by the individual.

(7) National Forest System The term “National Forest System” has the meaning given the term in [section 1609(a) of title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1609/a).

(8) Reburial site The term “reburial site” means a specific physical location at which cultural items or human remains are reburied.

(9) Traditional and cultural purpose The term “traditional and cultural purpose”, with respect to a definable use, area, or practice, means that the use, area, or practice is identified by an Indian tribe as traditional or cultural because of the long-established significance or ceremonial nature of the use, area, or practice to the Indian tribe.

*([Pub. L. 110–234, title VIII, § 8102](/us/pl/110/234/tVIII/s8102), May 22, 2008, [122 Stat. 1287](/us/stat/122/1287); [Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a), title VIII, § 8102, June 18, 2008, [122 Stat. 1664](/us/stat/122/1664), 2048.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) and [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) enacted identical sections. [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) was repealed by [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and repeal of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234) by [Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246) effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 110–234](/us/pl/110/234), see [section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246](/us/pl/110/246/s4), set out as a note under [section 8701 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s8701), Agriculture.
