---
title: "§ 3704b–2. Transfer of Federal scientific and technical information"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3704b–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3704b–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–245, title I, § 108](/us/pl/102/245/tI/s108), Feb. 14, 1992, [106 Stat. 13](/us/stat/106/13).)"
---
# § 3704b–2. Transfer of Federal scientific and technical information

##### § 3704b–2. Transfer of Federal scientific and technical information

(a) Transfer The head of each Federal executive department or agency shall transfer in a timely manner to the National Technical Information Service unclassified scientific, technical, and engineering information which results from federally funded research and development activities for dissemination to the private sector, academia, State and local governments, and Federal agencies. Only information which would otherwise be available for public dissemination shall be transferred under this subsection. Such information shall include technical reports and information, computer software, application assessments generated pursuant to [section 3710(c) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3710/c), and information regarding training technology and other federally owned or originated technologies. The Secretary shall issue regulations within one year after February 14, 1992, outlining procedures for the ongoing transfer of such information to the National Technical Information Service.

(b) Annual report to Congress As part of the annual report required under [section 3704b(f)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3704b/f/3), the Secretary shall report to Congress on the status of efforts under this section to ensure access to Federal scientific and technical information by the public. Such report shall include—

(1) an evaluation of the comprehensiveness of transfers of information by each Federal executive department or agency under subsection (a);

(2) a description of the use of Federal scientific and technical information;

(3) plans for improving public access to Federal scientific and technical information; and

(4) recommendations for legislation necessary to improve public access to Federal scientific and technical information.

*([Pub. L. 102–245, title I, § 108](/us/pl/102/245/tI/s108), Feb. 14, 1992, [106 Stat. 13](/us/stat/106/13).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the American Technology Preeminence Act of 1991, and not as part of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.
