---
title: "§ 2215. Federal agency requirements"
identifier: "USC-T48-S2215"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section2215"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–187, title V, § 505](/us/pl/114/187/tV/s505), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 602](/us/stat/130/602).)"
---
# § 2215. Federal agency requirements

##### § 2215. Federal agency requirements

(a) Federal Points of Contact At the request of the Revitalization Coordinator and within 30 days of receiving such a request, each Federal agency with jurisdiction over the permitting, or administrative or environmental review of private or public projects in Puerto Rico, shall name a Point of Contact who will serve as that agency’s liaison with the Revitalization Coordinator.

(b) Federal grants and loans For each Critical Project with a pending or potential Federal grant, loan, or loan guarantee application, the Revitalization Coordinator and the relevant Point of Contact shall cooperate with each other to ensure expeditious review of such application.

(c) Expedited reviews and actions of Federal agencies All reviews conducted and actions taken by any Federal agency relating to a Critical Project shall be expedited in a manner consistent with completion of the necessary reviews and approvals by the deadlines under the Expedited Permitting Process, but in no way shall the deadlines established through the Expedited Permitting Process be binding on any Federal agency.

*([Pub. L. 114–187, title V, § 505](/us/pl/114/187/tV/s505), June 30, 2016, [130 Stat. 602](/us/stat/130/602).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 505 of Pub. L. 114–187](/us/pl/114/187/s505). Subsec. (d) of [section 505 of Pub. L. 114–187](/us/pl/114/187/s505) amended [section 1492a of this title](/us/usc/t48/s1492a).
