---
title: "§ 1753. Relation to other laws"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1753"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1753"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–451, title III, § 304](/us/pl/97/451/tIII/s304), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2461](/us/stat/96/2461); [Pub. L. 105–362, title IX, § 901(j)(2)](/us/pl/105/362/tIX/s901/j/2), Nov. 10, 1998, [112 Stat. 3290](/us/stat/112/3290).)"
---
# § 1753. Relation to other laws

##### § 1753. Relation to other laws

(a) Supplemental nature of chapter The penalties and authorities provided in this chapter are supplemental to, and not in derogation of, any penalties or authorities contained in any other provision of law.

(b) Responsibilities of Secretary related to minerals on Federal and Indian lands Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to reduce the responsibilities of the Secretary to ensure prompt and proper collection of revenues from coal, uranium and other energy and nonenergy minerals on Federal and Indian lands, or to restrain the Secretary from entering into cooperative agreements or other appropriate arrangements with States and Indian tribes to share royalty management responsibilities and activities for such minerals under existing authorities.

(c) Authority and responsibilities of Inspector General and Comptroller General unaffected Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to enlarge, diminish, or otherwise affect the authority or responsibility of the Inspector General of the Department of the Interior or of the Comptroller General of the United States.

(d) Lands and land interests entrusted to Tennessee Valley Authority unaffected No provision of this chapter impairs or affects lands and interests in land entrusted to the Tennessee Valley Authority.

*([Pub. L. 97–451, title III, § 304](/us/pl/97/451/tIII/s304), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2461](/us/stat/96/2461); [Pub. L. 105–362, title IX, § 901(j)(2)](/us/pl/105/362/tIX/s901/j/2), Nov. 10, 1998, [112 Stat. 3290](/us/stat/112/3290).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 105–362](/us/pl/105/362) substituted “Nothing” for “Except as expressly provided in [section 1752(b) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1752/b), nothing”.
