---
title: "§ 290n–3. Membership"
identifier: "USC-T22-S290n–3"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section290n–3"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–400, § 5](/us/pl/103/400/s5), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4170](/us/stat/108/4170).)"
---
# § 290n–3. Membership

##### § 290n–3. Membership

(a) Number and appointment of United States section The United States section of the Commission should be composed of 13 members. The section should consist of the following members:

(1) The Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Secretary’s delegate.

(2) The commissioners of health or chief health officer from the States of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California or such commissioners’ delegates.

(3) Two individuals residing in United States-Mexico Border Area in each of the States of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California who are nominated by the chief executive officer of the respective States and appointed by the President from among individuals who have demonstrated ties to community-based organizations and have demonstrated interest and expertise in health issues of the United States-Mexico Border Area.

(b) Commissioner The Commissioner of the United States section of the Commission should be the Secretary of Health and Human Services or such individual’s delegate to the Commission. The Commissioner should be the leader of the section.

(c) Compensation Members of the United States section of the Commission who are not employees of the United States or any State—

(1) shall each receive compensation at a rate of not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay payable for positions at GS–15 of the General Schedule under [section 5332 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332) for each day such member is engaged in the actual performance of the duties of the Commission; and

(2) shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services of the Commission.

*([Pub. L. 103–400, § 5](/us/pl/103/400/s5), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4170](/us/stat/108/4170).)*
