---
title: "§ 300hh–16. At-risk individuals"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300hh–16"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300hh–16"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVIII, § 2814, as added [Pub. L. 109–417, title I, § 102(d)](/us/pl/109/417/tI/s102/d), Dec. 19, 2006, [120 Stat. 2834](/us/stat/120/2834); amended [Pub. L. 113–5, title I, § 101(b)](/us/pl/113/5/tI/s101/b), Mar. 13, 2013, [127 Stat. 163](/us/stat/127/163); [Pub. L. 116–22, title III, § 303(c)](/us/pl/116/22/tIII/s303/c), June 24, 2019, [133 Stat. 935](/us/stat/133/935).)"
---
# § 300hh–16. At-risk individuals

##### § 300hh–16. At-risk individuals

(1) monitor emerging issues and concerns as they relate to medical and public health preparedness and response for at-risk individuals in the event of a public health emergency declared by the Secretary under [section 247d of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247d);

(2) oversee the implementation of the preparedness goals described in [section 300hh–1(b) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–1/b) with respect to the public health and medical needs of at-risk individuals in the event of a public health emergency, as described in [section 300hh–1(b)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–1/b/4);

(3) assist other Federal agencies responsible for planning for, responding to, and recovering from public health emergencies in addressing the needs of at-risk individuals;

(4) provide guidance to and ensure that recipients of State and local public health grants include preparedness and response strategies and capabilities that take into account the medical and public health needs of at-risk individuals in the event of a public health emergency, as described in [section 247d–3a(b)(2)(A)(iii) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247d–3a/b/2/A/iii);

(5) ensure that the contents of the strategic national stockpile take into account at-risk populations as described in [section 300hh–1(b)(4)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–1/b/4/B);

(6) oversee curriculum development for the public health and medical response training program on medical management of casualties, as it concerns at-risk individuals as described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of [section 247d–6(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247d–6/a/2);

(7) disseminate and, as appropriate, update novel and best practices of outreach to and care of at-risk individuals before, during, and following public health emergencies in as timely a manner as is practicable, including from the time a public health threat is identified;

(8) ensure that public health and medical information distributed by the Department of Health and Human Services during a public health emergency is delivered in a manner that takes into account the range of communication needs of the intended recipients, including at-risk individuals; and

(9) facilitate coordination to ensure that, in implementing the situational awareness and biosurveillance network under [section 247d–4 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247d–4), the Secretary considers incorporating data and information from Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial public health officials and entities relevant to detecting emerging public health threats that may affect at-risk individuals, such as pregnant and postpartum women and infants, including adverse health outcomes of such populations related to such emerging public health threats.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVIII, § 2814, as added [Pub. L. 109–417, title I, § 102(d)](/us/pl/109/417/tI/s102/d), Dec. 19, 2006, [120 Stat. 2834](/us/stat/120/2834); amended [Pub. L. 113–5, title I, § 101(b)](/us/pl/113/5/tI/s101/b), Mar. 13, 2013, [127 Stat. 163](/us/stat/127/163); [Pub. L. 116–22, title III, § 303(c)](/us/pl/116/22/tIII/s303/c), June 24, 2019, [133 Stat. 935](/us/stat/133/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2019—Par. (9). [Pub. L. 116–22](/us/pl/116/22) added par. (9).

2013—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 113–5, § 101(b)(4)](/us/pl/113/5/s101/b/4), added par. (1). Former par. (1) redesignated (2).

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 113–5, § 101(b)(3)](/us/pl/113/5/s101/b/3), (5), redesignated par. (1) as (2) and amended it generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “oversee the implementation of the National Preparedness goal of taking into account the public health and medical needs of at-risk individuals in the event of a public health emergency, as described in [section 300hh–1(b)(4) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300hh–1/b/4);”. Former par. (2) redesignated (3).

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 113–5, § 101(b)(3)](/us/pl/113/5/s101/b/3), redesignated par. (2) as (3). Former par. (3) redesignated (4).

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 113–5, § 101(b)(3)](/us/pl/113/5/s101/b/3), redesignated par. (3) as (4). Former par. (4) redesignated (5).

[Pub. L. 113–5, § 101(b)(2)](/us/pl/113/5/s101/b/2), substituted “300hh–1(b)(4)(B)” for “300hh–10(b)(3)(B)”.

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 113–5, § 101(b)(1)](/us/pl/113/5/s101/b/1), (3), redesignated par. (4) as (5) and struck out former par. (5) which read as follows: “oversee the progress of the Advisory Committee on At-Risk Individuals and Public Health Emergencies established under [section 247d–6(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247d–6/b/2) and make recommendations with a focus on opportunities for action based on the work of the Committee;”.

Pars. (7), (8). [Pub. L. 113–5, § 101(b)(1)](/us/pl/113/5/s101/b/1), (6), added pars. (7) and (8) and struck out former pars. (7) and (8) which read as follows:

“(7) disseminate novel and best practices of outreach to and care of at-risk individuals before, during, and following public health emergencies; and

“(8) not later than one year after December 19, 2006, prepare and submit to Congress a report describing the progress made on implementing the duties described in this section.”
