---
title: "§ 4025a. Portability of professional licenses of servicemembers and their spouses"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4025a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4025a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title VII, § 705A, as added [Pub. L. 117–333, § 19(a)](/us/pl/117/333/s19/a), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6137](/us/stat/136/6137).)"
---
# § 4025a. Portability of professional licenses of servicemembers and their spouses

##### § 4025a. Portability of professional licenses of servicemembers and their spouses

(a) In general In any case in which a servicemember or the spouse of a servicemember has a covered license and such servicemember or spouse relocates his or her residency because of military orders for military service to a location that is not in the jurisdiction of the licensing authority that issued the covered license, such covered license shall be considered valid at a similar scope of practice and in the discipline applied for in the jurisdiction of such new residency for the duration of such military orders if such servicemember or spouse—

(1) provides a copy of such military orders to the licensing authority in the jurisdiction in which the new residency is located;

(2) remains in good standing with—

(A) the licensing authority that issued the covered license; and

(B) every other licensing authority that has issued to the servicemember or the spouse of a servicemember a license valid at a similar scope of practice and in the discipline applied in the jurisdiction of such licensing authority; 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “and”.

(3) submits to the authority of the licensing authority in the new jurisdiction for the purposes of standards of practice, discipline, and fulfillment of any continuing education requirements.

(b) Interstate licensure compacts If a servicemember or spouse of a servicemember is licensed and able to operate in multiple jurisdictions through an interstate licensure compact, with respect to services provided in the jurisdiction of the interstate licensure compact by a licensee covered by such compact, the servicemember or spouse of a servicemember shall be subject to the requirements of the compact or the applicable provisions of law of the applicable State and not this section.

(c) Covered license defined In this section, the term “covered license” means a professional license or certificate—

(1) that is in good standing with the licensing authority that issued such professional license or certificate;

(2) that the servicemember or spouse of a servicemember has actively used during the two years immediately preceding the relocation described in subsection (a); and

(3) that is not a license to practice law.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title VII, § 705A, as added [Pub. L. 117–333, § 19(a)](/us/pl/117/333/s19/a), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6137](/us/stat/136/6137).)*
