---
title: "§ 675. Norbeck Wildlife Preserve; establishment"
identifier: "USC-T16-S675"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section675"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 5, 1920, ch. 247, § 1](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch247/s1), [41 Stat. 986](/us/stat/41/986); [June 7, 1924, ch. 324](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch324), [43 Stat. 632](/us/stat/43/632); [Oct. 6, 1949, ch. 620, § 1](/us/act/1949-10-06/ch620/s1), [63 Stat. 708](/us/stat/63/708).)"
---
# § 675. Norbeck Wildlife Preserve; establishment

##### § 675. Norbeck Wildlife Preserve; establishment

There is designated as the Norbeck Wildlife Preserve such areas, not exceeding forty-six thousand acres, of the Harney National Forest, and adjoining or in the vicinity of the Custer State Park, in the State of South Dakota, as should, in the opinion of the President of the United States, be set aside for the protection of game animals and birds, and be recognized as a breeding place therefor.

*([June 5, 1920, ch. 247, § 1](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch247/s1), [41 Stat. 986](/us/stat/41/986); [June 7, 1924, ch. 324](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch324), [43 Stat. 632](/us/stat/43/632); [Oct. 6, 1949, ch. 620, § 1](/us/act/1949-10-06/ch620/s1), [63 Stat. 708](/us/stat/63/708).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

As enacted by act June 5, 1920, this section authorized the President to designate areas not exceeding 30,000 acres, but by amendment by act June 7, 1924, the President was authorized, upon recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture, to enlarge the area by proclamation to embrace a total of not to exceed 46,000 acres and the provisions of sections 676 to 678 of this title, apply with equal force to the additional area.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Custer State Park Game Sanctuary” changed to “Norbeck Wildlife Preserve” by act Oct. 6, 1949.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Change of Name

Harney National Forest abolished and its lands transferred to and consolidated with those of Black Hills National Forest by Public Land Order No. 1016 of Oct. 4, 1954, 19 F.R. 6500.

#### Presidential Designation

Areas comprising the Norbeck Wildlife Preserve, formerly known as the Custer State Park Game Sanctuary, were designated by Proclamations of Oct. 9, 1920 ([41 Stat. 1805](/us/stat/41/1805)), Jan. 8, 1925 ([43 Stat. 1981](/us/stat/43/1981)), and Jan. 14, 1929 ([45 Stat. 2985](/us/stat/45/2985)).
