---
title: "§ 8171. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T38-S8171"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section8171"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIV/s403/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5486](/us/stat/136/5486).)"
---
# § 8171. Definitions

##### § 8171. Definitions

(1) The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(2) The term “information technology” has the meaning given that term in [section 11101 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s11101).

(3)

(A) The term “information technology project” means a project or program of the Department (including a project or program of any element of the Department) for, or including, the acquisition or implementation of information technology.

(B) In cases where the Secretary transmits to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget information regarding information technology investments, which may consist of individual or multiple projects, the term “information technology project” refers to an individual project or program or a grouping of multiple projects or programs resulting in the acquisition or implementation of discrete information technology.

(4) The term “life cycle costs” means all direct and indirect costs to acquire, implement, operate, and maintain information technology, including with respect to costs of any element of the Department.

(5) The term “major information technology project” means an information technology project if—

(A) the project is designated by the Secretary, the Chief Information Officer of the Department, or the Director of the Office of Management and Budget as a major information technology investment, as defined in [section 11302 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s11302); or

(B) the dollar value of the project is estimated by the Secretary to exceed—

(i) $1,000,000,000 (as adjusted for inflation pursuant to [section 1908 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s1908)) for the total life cycle costs of the project; or

(ii) $200,000,000 (as adjusted for inflation pursuant to [section 1908 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s1908)) annually.

(6) The term “business owner” means, with respect to an information technology project, the program manager, project manager, or other supervisory official of the Department responsible for the project.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title IV, § 403(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIV/s403/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5486](/us/stat/136/5486).)*
