---
title: "§ 5608. Foreign trade missions"
identifier: "USC-T7-S5608"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section5608"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–334, title III, § 3312](/us/pl/115/334/tIII/s3312), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4623](/us/stat/132/4623).)"
---
# § 5608. Foreign trade missions

##### § 5608. Foreign trade missions

(a) Tribal representation on trade missions

(1) In general The Secretary, in consultation with the Tribal Advisory Committee established under subsection (b)(2) of [section 6921 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6921) (referred to in this section as the “Advisory Committee”), shall seek—

(A) to support the greater inclusion of Tribal agricultural and food products in Federal trade-related activities; and

(B) to increase the collaboration between Federal trade promotion efforts and other Federal trade-related activities in support of the greater inclusion sought under subparagraph (A).

(2) Interdepartmental coordination In carrying out activities to increase the collaboration described in paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall coordinate with—

(A) the Secretary of Commerce;

(B) the Secretary of State;

(C) the Secretary of the Interior; and

(D) the heads of any other relevant Federal agencies.

(b) Report; goals

(1) Report Not later than 2 years after December 20, 2018, the Secretary shall submit a report describing the efforts of the Department of Agriculture and other Federal agencies under this section to—

(A) the Advisory Committee;

(B) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives;

(C) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives;

(D) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate;

(E) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and

(F) the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate.

(2) Goals Not later than 90 days after December 20, 2018, the Secretary shall establish goals for measuring, in an objective and quantifiable format, the extent to which Indian Tribes and Tribal agricultural and food products are included in the trade-related activities of the Department of Agriculture.

*([Pub. L. 115–334, title III, § 3312](/us/pl/115/334/tIII/s3312), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4623](/us/stat/132/4623).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, and not as part of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” as meaning the Secretary of Agriculture, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334/s2), set out as a note under [section 9001 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s9001).
